ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e82	The representatives of Laila Davøy, Gina Knutson Barstad, Harald T. Nesvik, Steinar Gullvåg, Svein Roald Hansen and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Torkil Åmland, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e118	The major challenges facing Europe remind us of how insoluble the economy, politics and society are linked, nationally and internationally. This has been the subject of my foreign policy presentations and of the EU/EEA statements since the financial crisis in 2008; how the global financial crisis and the economic downturn that followed have turned into a state debt crisis in several countries and, in some cases, a social and political crisis. Action is taken against the crisis, but the management of deep imbalances in many countries and the challenges of euro-cooperation will define policy developments in Europe for a long time in the future. When the financial crisis broke out in 2008, the European States were ready to rescue the banks. They were initially rocked, but in several countries they are still in a vulnerable position. Now it's about the states. Impaired government finances have become a source of unrest in financial markets and are at the heart of the problem. For vulnerable states, it's about saving itself. The most vulnerable countries need external assistance, and a political community in Europe is under tough test – in terms of the climate of cooperation between countries, between countries and Union institutions, the relationship between countries inside and outside the euro zone and between the EU and other countries and financial environments outside the Union. There is no easy solution for the way out of this cross-budget in which many European countries are in: caught by high debt and large budget deficits at the same time. The President-in-Office of the Council of Rompuy said this in a conversation last Tuesday: Europe really needs economic incentives now, while Europe is getting tighter. But there is no way out, given the situation in the exposed countries. It is illustrative that the ambition for Greece, even after the aid packages and debt reductions agreed in October, is to fall to a level of government debt of 120 p.m. of GDP in 2020, which in itself is twice the maximum limit of the Maastricht Treaty. It says its own about a national economic policy that has been out of control, but also about the lack of mechanisms to ensure respect for the agreed economic policy framework. The picture in Europe is complex. Not all countries are in an equally difficult situation. Nevertheless, the reality is that Norway appears to be a European contrast, with low unemployment, high employment, profits and no debt. We are a surplus nation, political and economic. It requires, as the Minister of Finance often reminds us, good back to carry good days. Our situation places heavy weights on the need to keep our own economy in order and the role of safe business as a value-creating and employment force – and to share our responsibility to secure the European economy. At the same time, we know from experience that Norway is affected in many different ways by the economic turmoil in Europe. Europe is our most important market. We already notice some effects, including: in the form of a slightly stronger exchange rate and higher financing costs for banks. If the crisis were to be further aggravated, important effects on the Norwegian economy will be marked by the impact on the world economy and the price of petroleum and other raw materials that we sell. Of course, decline in Europe can also directly address the reduction in demand for Norwegian goods, and the political consequences of the crisis for European allies and partners also have an impact on us. This economic crisis has been referred to as the worst in Europe since World War II, as the German Chancellor said last Monday. Meeting it requires entirely new instruments. Powerful decisions are made. Cooperation has been further developed between the EU, the IMF and the European Central Bank in order to follow up countries receiving emergency loans. The parliaments of the euro countries have joined new rescue packages and an extended toolbox for the European Stabilisation Fund (EFSF). At the same time, the crisis has shown that although the causes of the problems can be traced to the policies of individual Member States, there are also clear gaps in the configuration of the single currency. The coordination mechanisms have proved weak, not least because the euro zone Member States have not complied with the legislation they themselves adopted. The work to address these challenges will be central to European policies in the coming years. While pointing to the need for stronger central coordination, there is growing resistance in several Member States to giving up more sovereignty. This tension will be evident in future in European policies. At the same time, we see clear signs of decisions being taken, both in terms of policies and governance structures. The EU summits in October introduced a broad range of new measures that are important for stability. These include a new crisis package for Greece, with the assumption of halving the debt of the Greek State to private creditors, a plan for the capitalisation of European banks, so that they are better equipped to take losses, and measures to make the EFF more powerful. However, there are still some details here before it all goes into place. Own bodies for the euro zone may be on the steps, together with better monitoring of economic policies in the Member States. This in itself is politically controversial and can reinforce the distinction between the 17 countries with the euro and the 10 countries without the euro. For long-term stability, programmes ensuring compliance with the monetary union preconditions are also established in a package of six legislative acts adopted by the European Parliament in September, the ‘six-pack’. A so-called European Semester has been set up to ensure that the Member States' budgetary work is carried out in close consultation with the Commission and the Council before the national parliaments adopt their budgetary decisions. In this way, the Commission and the Council will be able to better monitor the situation and follow the reform work in the Member States more closely. The October summit also announced additional instruments to strengthen policy coordination in the euro area. The President-in-Office of the Council of Rompuy shall direct work towards a deeper economic union, including limited Treaty changes. An interim report shall be available in December and a final report in March of next year. I think it is right to say that the EU's response to the financial crisis and the debt crisis is aimed at stability and burden-sharing – stability by trying to make the scale of the rescue mechanisms sufficient to regain and ensure market confidence, and burden-sharing by putting Member States on a hard hit country, and by depreciating private sector and banking contributions to stabilisation. Maybe it's the most game around the question of trust. President van Rompuy underlines the importance of regaining trust and that it requires will and strength for long-term sustainability. Trust that is rapidly broken down must be recovered over time — often over painfully long periods of time. Whether the measures now on the steps will prove sufficient to stabilise the situation in the euro area and to ease the financial and equity market turmoil is a matter of certainty too soon. In addition to the problems in Greece, the unrest has linked to the situation in Italy. In both countries, governments that originally had a majority in their national Parliaments have created the place for so-called technocratic governments, i.e. governments mainly composed of non-elected professionals. It's a thought-provoking trend. At the same time, it is worth remembering that there are democratically elected parties that have agreed to these solutions, precisely in an attempt to regain confidence. And most importantly, the policy which these new governments are to implement must pass through elected parliaments. That, after all, is the core of European democracy. What is certain is that the further development of the EU will be crucial also for the Norwegian economy – for the Norwegian banking sector, Norwegian exports, Norwegian policy and Norwegian society. Norway, through the State pension fund abroad, has invested in European sovereign debt. The Bank of Norway has great freedom, within certain criteria, to compile its investment portfolio on the basis of commercial considerations. In the government's view, this should also be the case for a fund that manages our savings. Through the IMF, Norway participates in the assistance of the most difficult euro area countries. Norway has asked about 55 billion. kr in loan funds available for the IMF, in the form of a IMF framework. These represent approximately 0,9 pst. of the IMF's total loan resources. This borrowing frame has not been used up. The government believes that we need to be open to consider increasing Norwegian resources to the IMF if necessary. A prerequisite must be that additional contributions become part of a larger amount of effort involving several countries. Norway is also prepared to contribute professional expertise, and it is clear that in some cases our knowledge is desired. In October, the European Commission asked Norway to contribute to an expert group to provide technical assistance to the Greek State apparatus in order to implement the reforms under the EU and IMF reform programme. Norway is the only non-EU country to participate in this group. There is no doubt that our EEA funding to Greece has helped the Commission to look to Norway in this case. These have given Norway unique experience with the Greek central government. Europe is still a rich continent. We continue to see growth and value creation. On the other hand, in the light of the relationship between the economy, politics and society, democracy has the preconditions for making the transitions. In this situation, there is also increasing attention to how the Europe 2020 growth strategy can trigger growth impulses as quickly as possible. The use of common resources for investments in transport, telecommunications, energy networks and for the promotion of research, innovation and industrial activities are important elements here, although it is now much more difficult to mobilise the other resources. The government focuses on being involved in these processes, not least in areas where we are directly affected by the EEA Agreement. The EU has undoubtedly contributed to stability and democratic development in new Member States ranging from authoritarian regimes to democracy. Now this is being challenged by the ongoing crisis. The sense of ownership of the European cooperation project is tested. Nevertheless, financial institutions, budgetary discipline and labour market policies remain essentially a national responsibility. Countries themselves must take primary political responsibility for the imbalances that have arisen. A fundamental cross-section of thought is that countries by country — including the largest — have broken the stability requirements they themselves have adopted. Economists have pointed out that once a step is taken towards monetary and economic union, cooperation should be more extensive in order to ensure the necessary stability and trust. This debate is now under way in the European Union. At the same time, we know that extended powers for the community are demanding. The discussion is not only about new joint institutions, but also about whether constitutional changes are required in some countries to bring new structures into place. This is controversial – at a time when there is not exactly a popular call for more integration in EU countries. Few in Europe are now demonstrating for more EU. Those who demonstrate fear for their jobs, for the future, and lack confidence in the political system at national and European level. This is alarming. It will be difficult to join a closer economic and political union. We see in Europe that economic constraints, cuts in welfare systems and increased unemployment are primarily affecting vulnerable groups, such as young people, minorities and those who have the least in the past. We see that cuts in public welfare create greater differences and increasing social marginalisation. This is unfortunate in itself, and it's bad social economy. Major differences in turn make the economy less robust and less adaptable. Greater differences weaken confidence, the social capital of society. Not least, young people’s hope for the future is affected – and it is particularly serious. Growing debt and persistently high deficits are not sustainable over time. The policy course will determine how it is cut and how it is consolidated, what is to be the Community's ambition and what is to be left to each individual. The crisis can thus lead to a new European debate on the role of the State in each country. A State must have the power and the ability to ensure stability and, if necessary, enter with rescue operations. A built-in country will be able to make society more vulnerable to modern crises. Several social scientists have pointed to the level of trust as a key factor in the functioning of a society: economic, social and political. Trust is also essential for the ability to adapt in a society, which is essential for the success of a modern economy. But what happens to trust, to adaptability and to the future of young people when youth unemployment passes 40 p.m. in Spain, or 20 pst. ashore even closer to us? We can get a European generation of young people who don't get a job, and it's completely independent of good exam papers and a lot of effort. How will this affect the confidence of political institutions? There is yet another worrying effect of the crisis that a populist outer right wing has gained wind in Europe’s sails. In fact, it is reassuring to see that such forces have not gained prominence in the crisis countries of Spain, Portugal, Ireland, Greece or Italy. In times like these, scapegoats are sought — a role that minorities are all too often assigned. We must face this challenge with political discussion, with transparency and respect for the views of others. We must also dare to confront group thinking, stigmatisation and scare images based on false reality and what looks like fear of strangers. In the vast majority of foreign policy issues, Norway has a basic common view with EU countries. We need Europe's clear voice and commitment to do big things in the future. This is crucial to finding good solutions to global challenges such as climate, environment, energy security, trade, development and poverty reduction. Our dialogue with the EU is close and good in this area – yes, it has become closer and more extensive after Ashton’s right-wing representative was given his mandate under the Treaty of Lisbon. Norway has enjoyed this, among other things. in our Middle East policy and our leadership of the donor countries group AHLC. However, there is reason to be concerned that the crisis in Europe continues to draw so much decision-making power and energy into internal conditions that Europe's voice and footprint are weakening in the global arena. We didn't do that either. As I pointed out in the previous presentation in May, the political development of Europe's southern neighbourhoods has led to increased attention to the control of the common external border. This is reflected in discussions on new legal acts and actions conducted between the Schengen countries. The feature of the debate on the euro and financial crisis remains here. Southern countries refer to the need for solidarity and burden-sharing, while north-west actors point to the responsibility of each country for order in their own house. It is with this that we now have to decide on full participation in the Schengen cooperation for Bulgaria and Romania. This would lead to the abolition of internal border controls against the other Schengen countries for their part. Norway has actively supported EU membership for the central and eastern European countries. This includes, inter alia: a theme in Message. St. 17 for 2010–2011 – Norwegian efforts for stability and development in south-east Europe – to be addressed in a few days’ time. Through the EEA financial instruments, we have also made a significant contribution in order to enable countries to meet the legal and technical requirements of full participation by the EU. At the same time, Norway is committed to enabling new countries to participate fully in the Schengen cooperation to implement their comprehensive commitments. The Polish Presidency of the EU has presented a compromise proposal which involves the gradual abolition of internal border controls for Bulgaria and Romania. From our point of view, we see this as a solution that balances different considerations, and that is a proposal that we can live with. However, there are still differing views in the EU, and some countries question the actual ability of Bulgaria and Romania to implement their obligations. Other relevant issues are also discussed in the bodies dealing with Schengen-related issues. The EU Minister of Justice and Home Affairs asked the European Commission in June to prepare a proposal for changes in access to the temporary reintroduction of border controls between Schengen countries. However, the Commission’s proposal presented in September goes a long way towards transferring decision-making powers from Member States to the Commission. The position of Norway, as expressed by Minister of Justice Storberget at the Justice Council meeting in Brussels on 22 September this year, is that assessments of internal security still need to be carried out by the national authorities of each country. The government will continue to promote this view – I did so at the latest in the EU Council meeting earlier this week. There is also a view shared by a large number of EU Member States. The Schengen Visa Information System (VIS) became operational on 11 October of this year. The preparations have taken time, and from the government we are happy that this is now in place. For our part, the foreign stations in Rabat, Cairo and Algiers are covered by the VIS in the first place. The system shall include, inter alia: improve the efficiency of the visa process, facilitate the fight against counterfeiting and facilitate checks at the Schengen external border. Police authorities of the Schengen countries responsible for the prevention, investigation and resolution of terrorist acts or other serious crime may also be granted access under specified conditions. The government is pleased that we are connected to the system and that the start has been successful. Norway has participated in all the forums relevant to the development of the VIS in line with the other Schengen countries. In Norwegian European policy, we seek influence in relation to EU bodies through participation. This means thorough work at an early stage – the phase in which EU decisions are designed. An important element in this context is Norwegian participation when the Commission adopts supplementary legislation, after consulting committees composed of representatives from Member States – what is also called comitology. The EEA Agreement gives Norway the right to participate as an observer in these Committees, which allows for professional input and views at an early stage. Recently, the EU, as it is known, has carried out reforms of this system. The European Parliament is now assimilated to the Council as regards the delegation of power to the Commission. There is a distinction between so-called delegated and implementing acts and fewer committee procedures. EU reform does not change our rights to participation in the EEA. The new comitology system is in a running-in phase. We are now working to ensure that our rights are well respected in practice as well. In this context, the EU side has said that it is also in their interest for the EEA/EFTA countries to make an active contribution so that everyone can have the best possible legislation across the EEA. In order to have a good effect on Norwegian participation, strong awareness of this committee system is needed in the EU, and we are therefore systematically working to strengthen the competence of Norwegian administration in this area. EU legislation is still in place. In this final part of the presentation, let me first mention three areas of work that are now being done specifically by the government, with enhanced efforts at an early stage: the Broadcasting Directive, changes to the Data Storage Directive and the new EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. Firstly, supplementary rules for the Broadcasting Directive. The so-called Laval, Viking and Rüffert judgments have raised questions relating to the admission of Member States to impose pay and working conditions on workers sent on behalf of one EEA country to another — and the enforcement of such requirements. This is regulated by the Broadcasting Directive. In the context of the EU Internal Market Action Plan, the Commission looks at measures to ensure better implementation of this Directive. One of the things you want is to: improving cooperation between Member States’ authorities, providing better information to workers and businesses, ensuring effective enforcement and combating circumvention and abuse of the rules. This is likely to be regulated in a separate enforcement directive for the Broadcasting Directive. In addition, it has been indicated that legislative proposals will be put in place to clarify the exercise of the right to provide services and establish themselves and fundamental rights such as the right to collective bargaining. From a Norwegian point of view, it is important to ensure the pay and working conditions of employees in the meeting of cross-border establishment and provision of services. It is also important to protect collective rights. Furthermore, it is important for us to ensure that the authorities can make demands on the level of pay and working conditions, including for foreign operations when these tasks are put out to tender. The Ministry of Labour is now taking part in the work of the Commission’s Expert Group on the Complementary Rules for the Broadcasting Directive. Secondly, amendments to the Data Storage Directive are an area of particular attention now. Earlier this year, the Storting consented to this Directive being incorporated into the EEA Agreement. At the same time, legislative amendments implementing the Directive in Norwegian law were adopted. These amendments will enter into force on 1 July 2012. The deadline for implementing the Directive in the EU was 15 September 2007. The EU has therefore had time to gain experience with the Directive and provided an evaluation report earlier this year. It confirms that amendments to the Directive will be proposed, but the data storage principle itself is maintained. It is appropriate to lay down principles governing access to data and the allocation of costs between authorities and service providers. The storage time, which may vary from six to 24 months in accordance with the current Directive, is also considered for the purpose of harmonisation. From the Norwegian side, we follow this process closely. Data storage shall be a means of combating serious crime and the government welcomes the establishment of common standards. We are also concerned with a reasonable cost sharing between authorities and eco-providers. A separate working group of representatives of the authorities and industry will present to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport, at the beginning of next year, a proposal for such cost allocation. Thirdly, European research and innovation cooperation has entered a crucial period. A new EU framework programme is being developed and efforts to develop a European Research Area are being strengthened. We therefore have an extra pressure on this field as well. Through Norway's participation in the EU's current 7th Framework Programme for Research and Technology, the EU Framework has become a very important arena for Norwegian researchers, institutions, businesses and, at the same time, a central part of Norwegian research policy. The successor is given the name Horizon 2020 and will apply from 2014 to 2020. This will be wider than previous framework programmes, as it will include both research and innovation in line with the Europe 2020 strategy. Research and education are priorities in the Commission’s proposal for a new EU long-term budget, which proposes a budget of 80 billion. EUR for Horizon 2020. In comparison, the budget for the 7th Framework Programme is 55 billion. euro. For education, an increase of 70 pst is proposed. between 2014 and 2020, to EUR 15.2 billion. euro. One of the innovations will be increased higher education cooperation with countries outside Europe. However, the financial crisis makes it somewhat uncertain what the outcome of the negotiations on the long-term budget will be. The government is committed to influencing the facility of the new research programme, so that it corresponds as closely as possible to our own priorities. Among the approaches we have promoted, there is an increased emphasis on global societal challenges that each country cannot solve alone – such as climate change, ageing and health, energy supply and food security. In parallel with Horizon 2020, the Commission is working to further develop a European Research Area, known as the European Research Area. The aim is to strengthen the research foundation in Europe by developing more attractive framework conditions and more open research cooperation outside the framework programmes. Norway has, among other things: initiatives for enhanced cooperation on marine research. The Commission will present a proposal for a new framework for the European Research Area next year. The government will record a hearing on the new framework this autumn. So finally, a few words about EU legislation that has already been adopted in the EU and is being considered as incorporated into the EEA Agreement. I also refer here to the presentations and discussions we have throughout the meetings of the European Committee. Firstly – on the Postal Directive: My previous statement addressed the Postal Directive and the reasons why we are not including the Directive in the EEA Agreement. At the meeting of the EEA Council on 23 May this year, I presented the Norwegian position. I stated that from the Norwegian side we would follow the procedures for reservation in the further follow-up of the case. Since then, there have been informal consultations with the EU. The aim has been to clarify Norwegian positions and to clarify factual issues. These consultations have been useful, but they have not fundamentally altered our view that we are not prepared to transpose the third postal directive into Norwegian law. This has been notified to the EU at the EEA Council this week. Then we will continue to deal with this matter in line with the procedures set out in the EEA Agreement. Secondly, like the previous TV Directive, the Audiovisual Media Services Directive makes it possible for television broadcasts from other countries to be transmitted unchanged. This also applies to alcohol advertising which complies with the rules of the Directive and the country of dispatch. It is therefore not a question of opening up alcohol advertising in Norway, but it is not possible to prevent such advertising from being included in television broadcasts from other countries. From the Norwegian side, a major effort has been made to obtain acceptance in order to continue an exemption from this Directive which allows alcohol advertising to be stopped in certain targeted consignments from other EEA countries, i.e. as forwarded on Norwegian cable television networks. We have not been able to make this happen. There is no doubt that our national ban on alcohol advertising can continue, but under this directive we cannot stop advertising entries from television channels under the jurisdiction of other countries – I would add – as little as we can stop alcohol advertising in magazines and magazines that we buy from other countries in Norwegian sales. The Directive here states that the problem of specially directed consignments should be addressed bilaterally by means of a formalised consultation procedure. The final consideration of the matter in the government is expected in the near future, and we will inform Stortinget immediately. Thirdly, work is still ongoing on the revision of the Deposit Guarantee Directive. I pointed out in my statement in May that the government would work particularly offensively on this important matter, which has the Minister of Finance's full attention. This was followed up with the European Parliament, the Commission and the Member States of the European Union. The EU is now engaged in so-called trialogue negotiations between the Commission, the Council and Parliament, where our input is one of the elements. The case is demanding, but the government is continuing to work to find a solution that allows Norway to maintain the current level of coverage. Fourth – on the temporary agency directive adopted by the EU in November 2008: the purpose here is both to protect temporary agency employees and to recognise these agencies as employers. The Directive requires the introduction of a non-discrimination principle. This will lead to better pay and working conditions for temporary workers. The case has been at the hearing, and the Ministry of Labour is working on the follow-up. The Temporary Agency Directive raises several legal and technical issues that require careful investigation. The government has not concluded, and I cannot therefore say exactly when the issue of the directive is being brought before the Stortinget. We will come back with this when the treatment is completed by the government. Fifthly, the energy sector: the Renewable Directive has been considered to be EEA-relevant and, following investigations with the Commission, the EFTA countries have forwarded to the Commission a formal proposal for EEA legislation. The proposal sets Norwegian renewable targets at 67,5 pst. in 2020 – the highest throughout the EEA territory. We can expect a decision in the EEA Committee in a short time. I would also like to mention that the Commission is taking further steps towards more coordinated energy policies in the EU, such as: involve information on external energy relations, regulations on infrastructure development and scenarios on how to achieve the EU's long-term climate objectives in the field of energy. We should note that despite higher energy efficiency and lower total fossil energy consumption in the EU, the Commission assumes that the import demand for gas will continue to increase. The Commission refers to Norway as important for EU energy security and as a partner with the potential for enhanced cooperation. This coincides with our vision. As a major energy supplier, we have served to minimise the uncertainty of the European energy market. I believe that Norway, as a stable and long-term supplier of gas, contributes at a time of great instability in European markets. Involvement is at the heart of Norwegian European policy, as I said. We must lean forward, create space for action and know our visitation time. It is my experience that when we have something to contribute, we are listened to. Norway’s competence is sought in many areas — it may be in the energy, maritime, northern, fisheries, development in Sudan or the Middle East. In September, Norway was invited to attend the informal EU Foreign Minister’s meeting during the part of the meeting that discussed the Middle East peace process. It's the first time something similar happens. The invitation came on the basis of our commitment to the peace process and the role of Norway as head of the donor country group for the Palestinians, AHLC. By the end of 2011, we will receive the report of the European Commission, which reviews the experience of the EEA Agreement and our other agreements with the EU. It'll be a thick and interesting report. It will be followed up with a notification to the Stortinget during 2012. It will further outline the way for Norwegian European policy, focusing on how the EEA Agreement can respond to our needs, and address issues such as:How should we best safeguard Norwegian interests in the light of the major changes the EU has undergone in recent years? Can new, longer-term measures be needed to safeguard these interests in cooperation with the EU? We know that the EU considers the EEA Agreement to be a viable arrangement and wants to continue it. It was confirmed at the EEA Council meeting earlier this week at the latest. The EU side is also waiting for the Norwegian investigation with interest, as confirmed during this week’s meetings. Finally, in the 1990s, what was called Washington consensus was quite unique. It would be somewhat simplified to a social model where privatisation and the reduction of the public sector were the driving force in the growth model. Today we see another picture, more complex. Developing countries see that China delivers growth of over 8 pst. per year. India, Brazil, Turkey and Indonesia are growing. What models work? What gives growth and ways out of poverty? In this change of words, several countries also look at the Nordic countries, which in spite of some inequalities are characterised by a model many thought would wear heavily 20 years ago, because it was assumed that the public sector was too large, the taxes too high and the trade unions too strong. But the Nordic welfare countries have achieved greater international recognition in recent years – with good reason. A high level of well-being and equality, combined with strong competitiveness and, not least, of adaptiveness, has shown strength in an increasingly globalised world. I mention this in the light of our background with economic turmoil in Europe and because the development of a sustainable welfare state in a Nordic perspective will be the main theme of the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers for 2012. During the Presidency period, we will look at various current challenges facing our welfare countries and how the public sector can more effectively solve these challenges. These issues are now being discussed differently in most European countries, and we will have the opportunity to discuss this with the Danish EU Presidency in the spring of 2012. At a time of debt crisis, political uncertainty, social unrest and trust issues, these discussions are necessary to bring the continent forward. Europe has the best conditions for getting out of the crisis and strengthening further: democracy, the rule of law, a highly educated population, a diverse civil society and not least a society with the will to debate and critical reflection on the time we are in. But it will require courage and innovation in many places in Europe, including in European cooperation. It's more than a mouth to say that the world economy is global. Europe has reaped great benefits from an open world economy. Now Europe’s countries are being challenged not only by cheaper labour from other regions but also by innovation, innovation and knowledge-intensive production of goods and services from these parts of the world. This can only be met by Europe renewing its societies and mobilising its human resources in full. It is then essential to avoid increasing numbers of people falling outside and losing confidence in the political institutions, confidence in democracy. If large groups of young people, minorities and others remain losers, Europe as a whole loses. Norway is not an exception here. Now when others are trying to renew, based on an acute government financial pressure, we must also seize the opportunity to renew and strengthen our society and our economy. We have to do it in a way that takes good care of the principle of equal rights, fair distribution and a strong social silence, which is so crucial to success in our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e311	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e325	Let me start by thanking the Cooperation Committee so that we could deal with this matter relatively quickly. There is no doubt that there is a very serious situation on the Horn of Africa. 13 million people are affected by drought, in addition to the difficult situation that has been there for several years. Worst is the south of Somalia where there has been an armed conflict over a very long time. Al Shabaab's policy in the south, where they have for several years refused the UN and other humanitarian actors food distribution, health care, schooling and agricultural assistance, makes the situation very difficult, especially in South Somalia. It has also driven people to flee the Horn of Africa. High food prices are exacerbating the situation. I want to say that it is very important that we manage to do what we can to protect women and children in flight, as Norway does, and so the UNHCR adds. Although there are very many countries that have contributed, there is still a large gap up to the UN's 2.4-billion-billion-dollar appeal. USD. Norwegian support and escalation with additional financial support for the Horn of Africa is in line with our tradition of providing emergency aid, and it is in line with our international footprints. I want to add that this case also illustrates that climate change is exacerbating already difficult situations in the world. It is a unanimous committee which supports the decision on the matter and also the provision on Norwegian aid. With this, I thank the Cooperation Committee and, of course, recommend the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e340	The drought disaster on the Horn of Africa that we have witnessed this last year is an example of the tragic effect of severe climatic conditions, poor governance and, in Somalia's case, armed conflict. As in so many other places, the disaster affects most those who are already the weakest in society — women and children, older and discriminated against ethnic groups. I am proud to belong to a government that takes such disasters seriously and contributes when the crisis is acute. I therefore wholeheartedly support the contribution made in connection with the famine. Even more important than emergency aid is the continuous effort to prevent such disasters as the one we have seen on the Horn of Africa. As this disaster shows, it must be worked on several fronts in parallel. There is now, on the one hand, a need to create robust agriculture across the region, making it less vulnerable to fluctuations in climate and crops from year to year. At the same time, there is a need to work with the governance of the countries in the region to prevent discrimination against different groups, to prevent conflicts that make the food crisis worse, and to ensure that assistance is provided in the event of an emergency. The countries of the Horn of Africa received Norwegian assistance in 2010 responding to several of these challenges. 37 pst. of Norwegian aid to Somalia last year went to a better system of governance. In Kenya, 68 pst went. of the assistance last year for the same purpose. Agricultural aid on the Horn of Africa divided by 4.3 million. SEK to Ethiopia and SEK 2 million. kr to Somalia. I am pleased that this year's budget means a strong increase in agricultural aid – almost 160 million. kr increase in relation to this year. This is a huge increase when we know that the total agricultural aid in 2010 was 300 million. kr. This year’s increase will primarily focus on the development of climate-resilient agriculture, which this disaster painfully illustrates the need for. One hundred million. kr of the increase will go to Africa, which has a major need for development in this field. The goal of Norway is 1 pst. of GDP to aid. We in the Centre Party believe that much of the growth in aid should be agricultural aid, and that more needs to be done in the climate adaptation of agriculture in the south, because agricultural aid is an effective form of aid. Agriculture creates employment and economic repercussions for the world's poorest, of which no other industry is close. In addition, most farmers in poor countries are women, which means that agricultural aid also helps to strengthen the position of women in countries in the south. We also hope that more people will see the importance of ensuring solid agriculture in order to ensure the world’s food security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e357	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e373	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e384	Combating poverty is about growth and distribution, but also about realizing that both poverty and wealth are a burden on the environment – poverty because it is obvious that all the resources available will be used to cope without taking into account the needs and, in the case of wealth, the way in which industrialised countries have built up, which has had their price in relation to the environment, in relation to pollution, emissions of greenhouse gases and the use of natural resources, which in turn have led to the reduction of natural diversity and a weakened ecosystem. We know that climate change affects the poorest countries hardest. When today's developing countries are going to build up, the world can't bear to do it the way we've done it. We can never limit global warming if they choose the same solution as many countries did and do. And then it might be timely to ask, do we have any right to deny them that? Of course not. But we must contribute to their sustainable growth and development. We must limit global greenhouse gas emissions, and all countries must contribute. In the big message we are about to address today, it is clearly stated that there is a need for a greener global economy, and four main fields of action and a number of measures are outlined. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that supports the measures, even though the various parties in their comments focus on different things, and there are clearly differences of hue. The only way to solve the environmental and poverty problem is through international cooperation. Norway has the opportunity to play a role that drives and bridges between different groups of countries in international processes. We can go ahead in international forums and in negotiations to set up ambitious goals and actions. Examples of where we have already done so are climate and forest management, climate finance, access to genetic resources, efforts to combat environmental pollution, and not least the development of the UN's Millennium Goals, and perhaps in particular gender equality and better child and motherhood. But taking an important role is not just easy. It's about building trust over time. In the climate negotiations under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, Norway has the ambition to contribute to the adoption of a legally binding climate agreement. That's good, but it takes hard effort, not least to get better dialogue between different countries, and perhaps especially in a changing world, with new emerging economies. If greenhouse gas emissions continue as today, it will not be possible to achieve the 2-degree target in relation to the global temperature increase. When nearly 1 1⁄2 billion people don't have access to power, we have a challenge. Many countries in which these people live have access to natural resources, and then technology development, access to capital and skills are important to manage them in a sustainable way. Norway, as a country, can contribute to what we have experience in, for example. in relation to hydropower and long-term management of natural resources. The red-green government has always had a strong focus on reducing deforestation and forest degradation. The reason for this is quite simple: it helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Norwegian Climate and Forest Initiative, which started in 2008, is important, not least because it targets climate negotiations and the UN’s Millennium Goals to ensure environmental sustainability. When the Committee consulted on this communication, many were concerned with the part of the big business message that concerns climate adaptation. That is good, because climate adaptation is about both preventing and managing what climate change brings. We are talking about food security and agriculture, that people will move more, spread diseases and the need for social planning. Solving poverty problems and halting climate change is not an easy task. The two problems are the greatest challenge of our time. No simple grip or action will be able to solve them, and no country alone can cope with that task. Cooperation and political will, and perhaps some of the most important of all, are required to recognise that poverty and the climate problem are linked. When I signed up for the AUF at the age of 15, that was exactly the context and to see the big discussion we had in the organisation at the time. Today, 23 years later, that discussion remains the same. It's good that we're not just discussing, but now we're acting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e403	The President shall make it clear that there was an incorrect speaking time on the table for the President-in-Office, Eva Kristin Hansen. We stick to the agreed allocation of speaking time, and then she would have, and is registered with, 5 minutes of speaking time. At the same time, if someone's wondering why Erik Solheim's got 10 minutes, he's assigned 5 minutes by another group. Then I guess we should be able to figure out the distribution of speaking time. The next speaker is the representative Peter N. Myhre, who has asked for, and received, a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e408	Let me thank the government for an interesting big message that sets the spotlight on many important issues in development and aid policy, and also points to some problematic challenges. In addition, let me fix a small error in the setting. In the case of an incurrency, a section is included in the notes of the Progress Party, paragraph No. 2, if the Kyoto commitments, which were not to be included, are mentioned. There is no need for the standard of living to be as low as it is in the countries we call ‘developing countries’. Africa, e.g. is a rich continent with good conditions for agriculture and huge natural resources. However, if these countries are to develop, there are many measures that need to be taken. Firstly, energy production needs to increase sharply. This, combined with national distribution networks for electricity and other energy supplies, must be in place. Renewable energy makes sense. But for poor people in developing countries, it is of less importance how energy is produced. We have to figure out that some of them choose coal and other fossil energy sources – this is urgent. Secondly, the infrastructure needs to be greatly improved. The road network in developing countries has improved somewhat in recent years, but there is much left. In recent years, Chinese operators have acquired rights to production and extraction in many countries and are building roads in order to operate these activities. However, the road network also needs to be put in place to meet other transport needs. Thirdly, corruption must be combated with a hard hand. The party of progress believes that the government is too yielding and passive in this field. Countries that score more and more poorly on the corruption indices usually retain the money support from Norway. This has to end. Corrupt leaders will see Norway as a problem, not a resource. Corruption is the main obstacle to development. On page 56 of the Communication, half-page sections describe the fight against corruption. Tanzania is used as an example. The example could not be less selected. Tanzania is one of Africa’s most corrupt countries, although it has received assistance from Norway for almost 50 years. Developments in Tanzania are not faster but slower than in comparable countries, despite the fact that Norway has used more than 20 billion. kr during these 50 years. The section also contains no information on improvements. The OECD Development Committee has pointed out that climate change can lead to disadvantages, but also create new opportunities. It's nothing new that the climate is changing. No one sees a situation where the climate enters a state of stability. Therefore adaptation measures for climatic conditions could never be permanent measures, adaptation must be a continuous process. So it is important that the pursuit of what is called sustainable development does not become an excuse for implementing a number of planned economic measures. A prerequisite for development is that the poor countries are integrated into the world economy, that they are allowed to play with the same rules of play as everyone else, and that we open our markets to them. Africa and other regions with poor countries need market economies to increase food production, distribution and trade, as we do in our part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e427	Even in the light of the financial crisis, the world has had a fantastic development of wealth. First of all, because of economic growth, 450 million people have been lifted out of poverty in the last 15 years, especially in countries like China, India and Vietnam. In the last 50 years, the average income in the world has tripled. The common denominator is a more open economy and extensive international trade. Trade is the strongest driver of economic growth and thus of the ability to create jobs and economic prosperity. There are still too many poor, but at the same time there is reason to rejoice that the proportion of poor is at its lowest ever. Access to energy is an important condition for the poorest countries to achieve economic growth and to be lifted out of poverty. Today, about 2 billion people live for less than two dollars a day. These are basically the same people who don't have access to energy, even though that number is slightly lower. Contributing to the availability of electricity for ever new areas will bring great benefits to the population, such as light, and thus a longer productive day, less use of fossil energy in their own house or cabin, which in turn provides a healthier indoor climate, and less use of timber for cooking, which gives the family, and especially mother, more time for other purposes. Energy is also necessary for the use of new technologies such as the Internet or mobile telephony, and this is essential for industrialisation. Energy is therefore the driver of employment and economic growth. The fundamental is pure energy. For the right, it is important that research is directed specifically towards energy solutions that can be easily commercialised, and thus used in developing countries. Norway must contribute to the financing of technology transfer in the field of renewable energy production and efficient energy use with a view to triggering large-scale private investment. The framework developed should contribute to the building of competences, technology cooperation and the organisation of private investment. We are as a nation characterized by strong expertise in hydropower and oil. That expertise is in demand and must be shared. In Ghana, traditional Norwegian aid is small, but the value of what is done in Oil for Development and in resource and environmental management is high. Ghana is becoming an oil and gas nation, and they want a strong framework to manage their own resources and contribute to transparent management. I am pleased that Norway is part of that development, as you can also see, for example. in East Timor, through the same oil for the Development Project. I fully agree with WWF-Norway that there should be a greater focus on better fisheries management in developing countries. Our fisheries management is the world leader in combining sustainable management with commercial fisheries. Norwegian knowledge transfer can contribute to the building of skills in improving fisheries management in developing countries. Good fisheries management is based on good rights systems developed in close cooperation with the local population and with regard to local food security. This is the way the right view is, there's no reason why we shouldn't have Fish for Development according to the same model as Oil for Development. Right, Christian People's Party and Left were strong proponents for forest conservation as part of the climate agreement. That commitment is at stake. Increased access to modern energy services leads to less pressure on the forest and thus strengthens the work through REDD+ for forest conservation. The same applies to agricultural activity. The main threat to forest conservation is the need for more land for agriculture. A more efficient and climate-friendly agriculture will ensure increased food production without increasing the agricultural area accordingly, and can thus build up during the foresting process. It is absolutely central for the Right to bet on agriculture. It contributes to economic growth, food security and prevents deforestation. For the Right and Christian People's Party, it is important that the REDD effort is directed more towards preserving natural forests and resources as well as local development than is the case today. Forest activity must be measured in total on CO2 effects, on biodiversity and on the development impact on indigenous peoples and communities. For us, it is central that forms of agreement and funding are evaluated, so that we get as much back for the resources we actually use. The Church's emergency aid has made valuable contributions. The organisation writes that the climate adaptation measures proposed by the government are ‘too thin, too low to commit and too narrow to the agricultural sector’ and proposes a broader approach to climate adaptation with increased support in particular in disaster prevention measures such as flood protection, warning systems, meteorological institutions and various water harvesting measures/irrigation programmes. I fully agree that we need a broader focus on climate adaptation measures. The right believes that the key to solving environmental problems is not primarily to produce less, but to produce differently. Modern technology has made it possible for industrialised countries, and it is increasingly doing so for developing countries as well. There are, of course, differences in individual issues between production and economic development and environmental protection. Then, in a broader perspective, it is possible to reconcile business and economic growth with environmental protection. Production and consumption are important for economic development and sustainable poverty reduction. Sustainable production and consumption are even more important. The world still needs economic growth, but it needs to be sustainable. Already in 1994, researchers at Princeton University published a research report showing a positive correlation between wealth levels and the environment. This context has since been repeated in a number of publications. For the right, this is very important. Another very central development we now see is that the number of democracies and the proportion of the population of democracies is increasing. According to Freedom House, three-quarters of all countries are free or partially free. The number of democracies has doubled in the last 30 years. It's important for several reasons. One reason is that democracies take better care of both their natural resources and nature in general. Democracies also need a market economy. Openness and freedom of choice are fundamental to giving people power and influence. Free trade and property rights are also key components. Closed countries are only very limited in their ability to deliver economic growth. Oxfam calculated that if Africa increased its share of world exports by only 1 pst, it would generate increased revenues of about 70 billion. dollar. At the same time, it is interesting to note that in 2006, the World Bank estimated that foreign workers sent home 250 billion. dollar. In this context, the Norwegian aid budget is limited. However, it does not make it any less important that the money be used in the best possible way. To the right, it is a clear objective that development policy should help to increase democratisation, respect for human rights and make people permanent out of poverty. The main objectives of the aid policy must be: 'Do no harm'. We need to recognise that, in some cases, traditional development policies and assistance have crossed central Norwegian objectives. The right will never accept that Norwegian-supported projects go across these key Norwegian development policy objectives. Finally, let me just spend some time on a Norwegian example. Jacobsen Elektro is a large Norwegian company that is committed to providing clean energy in a number of African countries. There is no doubt that a total accumulation is supporting both under Norwegian projects in developing countries and the principle of providing clean energy to an increasing number of people. The problem is when Jacobsen Elektro finds his projects trained by a Norwegian legislation, postponed for several years because of the need for tender projects, as bureaucrats in the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs – or for that matter at embassies – say. But the World Bank is clear; there is no reason for this. There are opportunities to get around, and flexibility must be used. I ask the Minister for Development to make sure that flexibility is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e472	This communication gives us the opportunity to discuss important aspects of assistance, which unfortunately have long received too little attention. In this case, I would particularly like to point out the part of the message that concerns climate adaptation of agriculture in the south. When the world's leaders before the millennium sat down to determine what were the main challenges of the new millennium, hunger was the first item on the agenda. UN Millennium Goal No. Therefore, 1 was to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger by 2015. If the world is to achieve this goal, food production needs to adapt to the climate challenges we face. The goal of Norway is 1 pst. of GDP to aid. We in the Centre Party believe that a large proportion of the growth in aid should be agricultural aid and that more of the agricultural aid should go to the climate adaptation of agriculture in the south. This is a wish that developing countries themselves have promoted in climate negotiations and that we believe we have a responsibility to contribute to. For this reason, one of the main priorities of the Centre Party in the year’s development budgetary process has been an increase in agricultural aid. That's what we've come across, and we're proud of that. This year's budget represents a strong increase in agricultural aid of almost 160 million. kr. Taking into account that last year the total amount of agricultural aid was 300 million. kr, is significantly lifted. This year’s increase will primarily focus on the development of climate change agriculture. One hundred million. kr of the increase will go to Africa, which has a major need for development in this field. Fifty-three million. kr has been proposed to increase female participation in climate adaptation, while SEK 6 million. kr is proposed for professional cooperation. Together, we believe that this should provide a robust and complete commitment. We hear at regular intervals that there is a question mark about the effect of assistance. Some may also ask why Norway should spend more money on agriculture in aid. Agricultural aid is an effective form of assistance. No other industry, like agriculture, can create employment and economic repercussions for the world's poorest. In addition, most farmers in poor countries are women, which means that agricultural aid also helps to strengthen the position of women in countries in the south. In addition, those countries that have their own solid food production are better safeguarded in times of economic fluctuations in the international market and in periods of war and conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e487	We live in a world where we have achieved historical economic growth and prosperity. We have achieved this, not least by high-record fossil fuel use. The back of the medal is that this has also contributed to record greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere, which can change the climate and threaten the living conditions of humanity. The theme of the message is therefore important. The world needs a greener economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty reduction. There is broad consensus on an increased investment in three areas: forestry, renewable energy and climate adaptation. All, with the exception of the Progress Party, highlight the need for more assistance for climate adaptation. Year after year, from the Christian People's Party, we have called for greater investment in climate adaptation. We have proposed more for both climate-resilient agriculture and increased food security. Norway has neglected this. Under today's government, we have not received the escalation proposed by the government of Bondevik in this area. We welcome the fact that the government finally confirms that Norway needs to invest more in this, but is impatiently waiting for it to be done in practice. The Christian People's Party is results oriented. Therefore, we will have strict control and more independent evaluation, both of the efforts to combat poverty and of the past few years' climate and forest action. We must also be on guard against target conflicts, for example. climate action on nature protection affects the poor. Good intentions are not enough, we need to ensure that the measures reduce both poverty and climate problems. There were many consultation comments on the notification by the Committee. One demand had been unisoned from both the Church's Emergency Aid, the Development and Environment Forum, the Rain Forest Fund, Redd Barna, Norwegian People's Aid, UNICEF Norway, SAIH, LNU, Plan Norway, Care Norway and Refugee Aid: Norwegian climate action should be financed in addition to the assistance framework and not within it. It is a fundamental view that the Christian People's Party has been standing for all the way since the climate settlement in January 2008. Together with the Right and Left, we took this one in the climate agreement and agreed that the funds for combating deforestation and climate action should be allocated outside the assistance framework and the government's alerted escalation of this. But the red-green parties have a majority. As long as they don't change their mind, enough practice will be different from what we and those organizations want. In the case of aid for power generation, the Right and Christian People's Party have a minority comment. We believe that this should lead to aid-funded power generation benefiting the poor in the country. We must also avoid increasing the emphasis on energy in aid leading to a shift away from the poorest countries and towards better developed and middle-income countries. The Christian People's Party believes that the climate adaptation measures proposed by the government are too weak. In line with the Church's Emergency Aid consultation, the Christian People's Party and the Right therefore propose a broader approach to climate adaptation. We will have increased support in particular in disaster prevention measures such as flood prevention, warning systems, meteorological institutions and various water harvesting measures and irrigation programmes. We also point out that Norway is the world leader in the sustainable management of commercial fisheries. The unique competence we need to use to promote better fisheries management in developing countries, so we do not fully understand why government parties will not consider establishing a new development programme, ‘Fish for development’, following the model of ‘oil for development’. The government should do that as soon as possible. The challenges are great. We have no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e513	This is a message that alerts an increased effort in three areas: forestry, renewable energy and climate adaptation, mainly through agriculture and the prevention of natural disasters. Norway’s investment in these areas is in fact quite large and consists of a significant part of Norway’s assistance and a significant part of Norway’s climate action. It may well be worth noting that at a conference, when this announcement was launched, Civita's leader, Kristin Clemet, said the following: ‘I do not know whether that is an advantage or disadvantage to the Council of State, but I am fundamentally in favour of this communication’. The focus has been on shifting from an idealistic driven system where commerciality has been a foreword, to becoming a field where private cooperation is crucial, and where it is a maritime, decisive goal to trigger private sector funds. Yes, the Minister for Development has even said that he will allow someone to be rich. It is good, but it is still a significant challenge that aid comes to those who need it, to the poor, and not least to do so. Our energy efforts don't just go to the richest. This message is important for many reasons. It is important to have a coherent development policy. It is important to achieve sustainable results. However, I would also argue that there are significant shortcomings in the coordination of Norwegian development policies and that different sectoral interests conflict more closely with each other. The message tries to clean up some of this, but perhaps this message should start a major debate on climate and energy in a development policy context. Yesterday, an article was printed in the Evening Post, writing that three leading researchers in the environment and assistance, entitled ‘Nour protection, non-helping assistance’. I'll quote from there: ‘28. In October, the forest services in Tanzania sent out crews to an area in the Rufiji delta. Protected by the armed police, they burned down hundreds of cabins, and by motoring, they cut down people's coconut palms with the support of Norwegian rain forest billions, Tanzania has adopted a strict protection of the mangrove forest. [[...]] Thousands of farmers and fishermen shall be forced out of the area. It's lived in the Rufiji delta for centuries. [[...]] But now people are ordered to stop growing rice and reduce fishing in the delta." This is one of the examples mentioned in the chronicle. In Tanzania, protective restrictions of over 40 pst have been imposed. the area of the country in addition to the protection of sea areas. The last grant for protective restrictions is now established as part of the UN Forest Conservation Programme to reduce climate emissions — REDD. The conflict in the delta is partly the result of this programme. Norway plays first fiolin in REDD with the so-called rain forest billions. The problem is that, together, different protective restrictions form an extensive resource that affects millions of rural people in poor countries in the south. Indeed, it is those who actually pay the bill for measures to preserve what is considered to be global protection values. Poor people in Africa must be able to feed themselves in a sustainable way and not pay the price for the interests we have here in the north. Despite the fine formulations of participation in recent years, we have not seen that people have real influence. It's rare they have the opportunity to speak. This is in a rather sharp contrast to the comments of the Committee in this message. It is fundamentally unfair that the poor, who have not caused the problems, have to pay the price for it. That was also why the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left stated in the 2008 climate agreement that they would have preferred another funding model one day: ‘The means of combating deforestation and climate action in developing countries shall therefore be allocated in their entirety outside the overall Norwegian aid framework and the government’s alerted its escalation.’;» However, if looking at the environment and development in the context means that the objectives need to be included in the same budget, it is essential that the increased response to climate change and climate adaptation in poor countries lead to an increase in the aid budget framework corresponding to the response. It is an objective that poor countries should not suffer unjustly because of climate change. This must then be financed entirely by new funds and not by greenwashed money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e548	The representative Gitmark said the world is moving forward quickly, and I agree with that. There can be little better evidence for this than the United Nations Development Index, which was presented last week, where Norway peaked. That's what was covered in Norwegian newspapers. In the world’s lowest life expectancy this year, Sierra Leone, there is an expected life expectancy of 47.8 years. It's of course scary low, but at the same time it's higher than what the world average was when I was born. Then you could expect to get a little under 47 there. Now is the lifetime where the lowest anywhere in the world. But in countries like China and Vietnam, which are mentioned here, there is now an expected life expectancy of almost 75 years. So the world is moving very quickly in a positive direction in the fight against poverty. The bigger scandals are that there is still a billion living in absolute, extreme poverty. They lack the most basic things in health and education, they don't quite know what to eat tomorrow. It's also bad that we can't handle the environment in a good way. All of this, war, poverty and the environment are the real, great challenges humanity faces today. The dilemma we have is that the world is very divided. I am one of the relatively few involved in both the environmental and development contexts. The striking thing is that these are two totally separate worlds. In the climate negotiations, you meet climate negotiators and environmental protection ministers who basically have a national focus and very little understanding of the development contexts, while in the context of development, you very often meet people who don't really think the environment is particularly important, at least it can be a hindrance to development. It is therefore very gratifying that an aggregate increase here believes that Norway should be a driving force to see the environment and development as a whole. We must have a rapid reduction in poverty, but it cannot happen in such a way that it contributes to the warming of the globe and the destruction of the environment that we all have in common. Let's never forget that it's the poorest who suffer most from environmental damage. The richer you are, and the more effective a country is, the more likely it is to be able to protect its citizens from, for example, climate change. The poorer a society is, the greater and more extreme the consequences will be floods, droughts or other climate disasters. What has proved to be very sensible in our development policy is just connecting things together. It's not spending money in itself that solves the world's problems, but it's proven to be much more effective when you've managed to connect money use with political initiatives and professional processes. We're going to connect the best professionals in the world in an area, political processes that need to involve state leaders and people at a high political level, otherwise we don't get heavy, with money use. This is where the success so far lies in the so-called climate/forestry project, i.e. the conservation of rainforests. It's the connection between Norwegian money and political engagement with Indonesia's and Brazil's presidents, the connection to broad, professional environments, whether they understand themselves in satellite photos developed for military purposes, but who can thus go in and see if the forest is actually deforested or not, or there are people on the ground in the jungles and know what the professional questions are. Rainforest conservation has been so far, as I see it, a great success, the greatest success in climate negotiations. I share the views expressed by the Right and Christian People's Party here, that of course there should be both a climate dimension and a natural diversity dimension and the development of living standards for those who live there. It is also quite right that this has a very close link to agriculture, because it is not as most in Norway believe that it is the cutting down of timber for – let’s say – boatboards of teak that are the main driving force in the rainforest destruction in the world. It is also a driving force, but the most sovereign driving forces in Latin America are plight and soya, and in Indonesia and Southeast Asia it is palm oil. Neither logging nor extracting palm oil is in itself wrong. Both parts are completely acceptable. People eat meat, and palm oil is a natural part of diet and many products. But this cannot happen in areas where the rainforest is destroyed. As is evident in Brazil, it is fully possible to have large agricultural growth, but in areas where no deforestation is taking place, and in Indonesia there are huge, already devastated forest areas, which can be used for further development of palm oil without destroying the rainforest. It is the link between money and politics that has made this initiative important to the world, and we have to think the same way in other areas. With regard to energy, it is crucial to get the right relationship between the private and public sectors. I just have to say, since Kristin Klemet was quoted, and the Right and Left rejoiced that the government is using the private sector and the commercial: I am very pleased that we socialists have seen the importance of the private sector, a sector that had no central place in Norwegian development policy until we came to power. It is we who have taken the idea of the private sector into the development policy with strength and weight. It's a little personal pleasure, I must admit. But what's that supposed to mean in practice? It must mean that we look at how we can use public funds to facilitate more for the private sector. To be very concrete, Scatec Solar is planning solar investments in Mali and South Africa. Then we can combine private and public funds to get it done. DründerEnergy and several other energy companies are planning to invest in hydropower in Africa. The Lorentzen Group is planning a bioenergy investment in Ghana. In all of these cases, we need to consider whether less public funds can help trigger much larger private sources. But if it doesn't trigger the big private funds, it doesn't make sense to use small public funds. We can't take over the private company in these areas. It must be private investment that drives the energy effort. Of course, it has to be commercialised. After all, when REC has problems in Norway, it is because the Chinese make cheap solar energy and honor them for it. There's nothing other than the price that prevents the world from using solar energy. There are no ideological, practical or other reasons. It's a question of price, and the price has to be driven down drastically. Then the whole world will be able to use solar energy in a much more efficient way. The aim of our energy initiative is therefore the same as with the forest initiative – to see if we can connect the public and private sectors with Norwegian, national money with more international money and with the political drive that demands the top level. Therefore, it was so important that UN Secretary-General Ban came to Norway and told about his quite touching personal experiences during the Korean War, when he sat and learned to read by candles. Some people can do that, but there's no doubt that it's a lot more effective to learn to read and sign an electric bulb than a candle. It'll be easier to get the whole world alphabetized with electric bulbs in Africa and elsewhere. So to agriculture, which is the third big bet. Let me say that when we focus on agriculture now, it's not because the other side of climate adaptation is less important. We have already delivered a big message, I think it was two years ago, about disaster prevention – natural disasters and political disasters. There has been a long commitment from Norway to prevention and response to natural disasters, whether tsunami alerts are linked to earthquakes or to climate-related disasters, for example. caused by cyclones. So the new thing is to build on what we've done in that area, and to do more on agriculture. There are also other aspects of climate adaptation, but to the seventh and last, the two major aspects of climate adaptation are extreme – too much or too little water – and that is the conversion of agriculture, where water is also the most important. Peter N. Myhre pointed out something very central, that Africa has not realized its agricultural potential. If you look at the large picture, the reality is that Asia, on an ever smaller agricultural area, has been growing in agricultural production. Africa has, amazingly enough, on an increasingly large area, had a smaller production. It's not that Africa lacks soil, but it lacks effective systems to put it into service. These are everything from roads, markets, good advice, ownership of land and a series of other questions. We are now working closely with Kofi Annan's initiative for a green revolution in Africa and a series of other initiatives to get more work done in this area. The so-called conservation agriculture, for example: Zambia and Malawi make the best efforts, both in commercial, traditional agriculture and in organic farming. I would finally say that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party present an exciting idea. It is ‘Fish for development’. I'll take that with me, and I'd like to investigate and see what we can do about it. It lies entirely in the extension of the ‘Oil for Development’ and the ‘Tax for Development’ and is an area that many developing countries demand. Let's think about what we can do to strengthen our ability in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e584	In my post I talked a little bit about corruption. I missed it from the Council of State, even though it is mentioned in the communication. Corruption is the main obstacle to development. Through more debates here in the United Kingdom, it has been pointed out that Norway should have a tougher line with the corrupt regimes, especially in Africa, but also elsewhere in the world. It will be an advantage if Norway makes itself a little more unpopular among the most corrupt regimes. My question is, when will the government change its strategy towards the most corrupt regimes, so that we get a tougher attitude towards them? I would also just like to end by saying that the Council of State was concerned with the private sector. Currently is less than 3 pst. of the means of assistance related to projects involving the private sector, but we hope this will improve over the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e593	Let me first say to the last one: yes, I hope we can use more aid to trigger more funds from the private sector. But then important private sector funds must also be mobilised, and that is getting the link right which is the main challenge. When it comes to corruption, I didn't choose to talk about it now, because I've been talking about it in a series of other debates in Stortinget, and I feel that it's not the focus of this debate. But corruption is a central development problem. As Peter N. Myhre knows, this government has taken a series of steps to combat corruption, which did not exist before — for example. the central corruption unit. Any good idea from the Progress Party on how to combat corruption more effectively, at least I will consider very carefully. But I also want to ask the Progress Party back, by apartment, which countries the Progress Party thinks you can run in. Now you get the impression that Tanzania is a country you shouldn't run in, and that it's still a country you shouldn't run in. kr on development aid. Which countries do they think meet the criteria for actually spending money, not just for not spending?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e600	The President assumes that we follow the usual tradition, that the questioner is not given the opportunity to be answered at the same time. That's why we move on to the next line – from Torkil Åmland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e603	Myhre could probably come back later and answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e608	I think it is positive that the Council of State is now going to the Progress Party to find the solutions. The Council of State was aware that he was pleased that private people had come on the job of helping, and that this was a sort of socialist idea. I would like to remind the Council of State that the mission organisations have been providing assistance since the 1820s. It was a long time before the socialists thought in those paths, so it's probably not the red-green government that made it up. There is a headline in the Evening Post today: «15 billion in the fog home». This concerns UNDP, the UN Sub-Organisation for Environment and Development. That's where the Riksrevision, at Jørgen Kosmo, says, "The report criticised the U.D. for being passive on the boards of the United Nations system." We have people in these governments, but it's probably gone 15 billion. kr during a 10-year period, without clearly being brought with it by the members of the Boards and being active in relation to it. Then my question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State satisfied with the Norwegian efforts of these governments, and is it acceptable to count on [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e619	Then the State Council of Solheim will be allowed to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e622	Let me first say that I am listening to ideas also from the Advancement Party. It's not often, but it happens that good ideas come from there too. So we have to listen to them, too. In the case of UNDP, no, I'm not satisfied with how it used to be. This is precisely why we have taken a step forward – as we made clear at this hearing that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs recently had – to strengthen the part of the ministry's work on how to carry out our governance representation. There is now a much wider process of mandate, with clear demands for active Norwegian participation in the board. And UNDP has, for example, have been provided with important issues in the field of corruption — greater transparency and more control of money. But Norwegian efforts to manage important, large UN organisations are issues that we are constantly working on and should improve on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e629	The next replicator is Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who has requested two lines and is given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e632	It is gratifying that we are dealing with a big message today where there is a great deal of agreement about many of the long lines, but at the same time there are some critical points that the opposition parties have come along and that have also come up with at the hearings we had on the matter. One point is support for what the Right, Left and Christian People's Party said in the context of the climate agreement, namely that the funds for climate action should go beyond the normal Norwegian aid framework. The second is a point that is recurring in many consultations we have had, namely that all Norwegian assistance is now being ‘washed up’ if one can use such a concept. This means that measures such as: to women and gender equality are now being earmarked for climate action, and there is a trend that, at least from the right, we think is objectionable, simply because we see other important measures at the expense of them. Does the Council of State see this as a problematic development, that even in budget chapters on women and gender equality, funds are being earmarked for climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e639	On the one hand, my clear view is that if we decouple funds for climate action from the aid budget, it will be significantly less. Now I have not asked the Right Budget proposal for this year, but in previous years it has been decoupled from the aid budget, but you have cut even more, so that the sum is negative. It's up to any party to do this, but having it on the aid budget will make it easier to get money for this. In addition, it is not possible to make a proper distinction between climate adaptation and assistance, for almost any development measures that create a stronger state, a better civil society, a better infrastructure – all such things – will also have a beneficial effect on climate adaptation. Climate adaptation, as we are talking about here today, concerns agricultural development. There's nothing new – it's almost always been in support of agricultural development. It's just that now we're giving it a climate dimension as well. But increasing agricultural productivity is good both for the climate and for traditional development policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e646	I noticed that the Council of State in its reply to the representative Myhre spoke about corruption not being the focus of this debate. I wish that corruption got a greater focus, because if there is something Norway is now spending enormous sums on – and that is good, that is something that everyone is behind – then it's climate and forest bets, with the risk that some of the funds can either be lost in corruption or not used as intended. So I wish that the focus of the Council of State on corruption was greater in this matter as well. But let me go back to the question of women and equality. I want to give the Council of State a concrete challenge: in the 2012 state budget, at Chapter 168, women and gender equality, it is proposed to earmark 100 out of 300 million. kr for environmental and climate action. Don't the Council of State agree that it could be better to earmark 100 million. kr to women and gender issues in climate and forest action at Chapter 166, environment and sustainable development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e654	Let me just repeat that when I don't deal with all the things always, it's to get focus on what's central in the debate. The key issue in the debate here, for which we should also use the lines, is: how can we strengthen energy initiatives, climate-friendly agriculture, rainforest conservation? This is the core of the debate. Then, of course, in all these programmes, we must have a very strong focus on the fight against corruption, which we have in all programmes, and which are dramatically strengthened from the previous government to the Stoltenberg government. We have taken up anti-corruption as a very central issue. So in terms of women and climate, this is also very densely interwoven, which makes it very difficult to separate these things. It's e.g. so that women are the ones who suffer most from natural disasters. This is partly due to the fact that men are often stronger and come from it more easily, but it is also due to the fact that in natural disasters women care for children and the elderly. That's why we see that there are many more women than men who die in climate-related natural disasters. So there's a very strong connection between women's issues and climate issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e661	It is not just the Minister for Aid who is involved in aid policy; many other departments are engaged in policies that affect aid policy. Recently, we have seen more examples of parts of trade policy, of arms exports, yes, also other things that undermine many of Solheim's good intentions. This is not something left only comes up with; this is criticism that has recently also come from organisations such as the Church's Emergency Aid. So my question is whether the Council of State has a plan for the rest of the government to have the same intentions as the Council of State in this field, so that we get a whole set of Norwegian aid policy that is not just about the aid policy of the Ministry of Aid, but about the Norwegian Government's aid policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e668	Yes, that is precisely why the government has provided a briefing on so-called ‘coherent development policy’, which tries to take the different areas and look at the whole of them. At the same time, we need to be honest enough to admit that in any country, including Norway, there are also divisive objectives. It is probably, I would assume, not entirely possible both to achieve the objective of a more or less total size, of a robust rural agriculture in Norway, and to achieve the objective of full transparency for agricultural imports from developing countries that have evolved much, of the type Brazil, India, etc. Here, there are real differences of interest in Norway, which cannot be easily resolved, but on which the Storting is free to participate in the debate. I must also say that the representative asked good questions about Tanzania initially, and I would ask our embassy in Dar-es-Salaam to investigate what has happened in the Rufiji delta, what emerged in this of the chronicle of, among other things. Hanne Reply-City. These are people I have a lot of respect for, and of course I'm going to check if what they're saying is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e677	Then I come back to this topic that the Council of State sent me in return in my first line: What can you do to combat corruption in a more effective way than today? The assumption is that measures that do not affect the civilian population in the country we are dealing with are too much. Support does not have to be cut off for all countries with too high a level of corruption, but chooses one. Governments themselves have focused on Tanzania. Now let's say that we're dealing with Tanzania, the fillerist government, withdrawing budget support and saying that it won't come back until Tanzania shows results in its anti-corruption campaign. There could be an effective response — and my question is whether the government will be able to initiate the kind of action against countries such as Tanzania and, where appropriate, others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e682	We have a very tough line towards corruption in Tanzania and anywhere else. Corruption is a thief. When someone is being treated for corruption, it has to be combated at the same time, it has to be reported, it's a police case. At the same time, it's not that we can override Tanzania, and it's presented here as about 20 billion. kr is huge amount. Well, that's e.g. less than Hydro alone plans for a single investment in Angola. That's as much as half of what Statoil pays in taxes for two years in Angola. It is therefore not possible to override a country on the basis of such means of assistance. But my question to Myhre was different because Myhre is running around and is constantly telling us which countries we should not provide assistance to, while the Progress Party is proposing to spend 20 billion dollars. kr of the taxpayers' and the Community's funds. The $20 billion will necessarily have to be spent in some countries. What I am asking for from the Progress Party is not a list of which countries we cannot spend money in, but which countries the Progress Party will spend money in – in which developing countries have such a good standard of corruption that they are prepared to spend money in those countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e692	We have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e697	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e700	In a country where we have chosen to have a Minister for the Environment and Development, the relationship between the two fields may appear to be obvious. Intuitively, it is easy to understand that climate change – with all of it leading to increased droughts where it is dry, more floods where it is wet, and more disasters resulting from extreme weather – is a serious obstacle to development. It is also easy to understand the reasoning that it is impossible to tackle some of the major environmental challenges we face — for example. deforestation — without any possibility of development for the people who have lived by mowing rainforests. Nevertheless, this ratio is extremely conflicty, because short-term opportunities for economic growth often lie in a reckless use of natural resources. It's nearby to draw a parallel to the use-protection debate here at home. We know how heated such debates can be with regard to the opportunities of Norwegian communities to develop nutrition and provide jobs. Therefore, it is understandable that the concerns of Western countries for both biodiverse and over-carbon emissions face considerable resistance among the poorest countries in the world. The requirement to stop deforestation or reduce emissions growth from emerging industries can very easily be read as a demand from the Western world to stop economic development for some of the poorest people in the world. The approach we have to our rainforest bet is enormously important because a model where you just demand the end of the peak and compensate for pure money transfers, cannot stand over time. It is necessary to actively create alternative ways of living for the people living in the forest. Last year the Committee on Energy and the Environment was on a committee mission in Brazil. We went into the Amazon to look at one of the projects that Norway is funding. It was in every way a fascinating experience. After traveling by boat on the Amazon in over a day without seeing anything but forest, forest, and more forest, we suddenly came to a small community of some hundred people. There we met families who had gone into a program where they committed themselves not to do the best, and received an annual financial support for it. But in order for families to receive that support, it was among other things. requested that the children go to school. The school was built as part of the project, the teachers funded the project, and the school was equipped with a PC room that allowed the students to follow, for example. Internet English education. It's a very special sight in the middle of the rain forest. I have followed the international climate negotiations over a few years. The requirement for the developing country block to participate in the signing of an agreement has been consistently focused on the need for the West to finance actions to be undertaken in developing countries – both on emission reductions and adaptation – ensuring technology transfer and the commitment of the developing countries themselves to significant emission reductions in their countries. I believe that it is possible to create growth and development in a less emission-intensive way than we have now. We see how some countries skip stages of development and, for example, how they do it. drops the fixed phone and goes straight on mobile phones. Similarly, it is possible to skip as far as possible the old-fashioned and most carbon-intensive way of producing energy. However, it is impossible to demand that this be done without the Western world taking a primary responsibility for the costs of developing new technologies, and not least putting in place credible legislation on how to transfer that technology despite international patent legislation, etc. This is why the Norwegian Energy Plus initiative is important, because it contributes to demonstrating willingness to solutions and building trust, in the same way that the forest project does. The enormous gap of trust between Western countries on the one hand and the G77 on the other can sometimes act as a completely insurmountable barrier to reaching agreement in the field of climate. I am following with excitement the uphill trip to Rio+20 next year. It is absolutely necessary to get the entire international community to discuss how we can achieve more fully in the UN's environmental and development work. We have had a strong leadership role in the field of sustainability since the Rio meeting 20 years ago, and it is natural that we take a great responsibility now, because we are a country that has come a long way in combining environmental and development thinking, and we have credibility and trust when we put this on the agenda. That's why I think this is an important message – I'm glad it's presented, because it anchors some of our most important strategies into the very exciting global work that's to be done in the field of sustainability in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e720	When I raised the question of corruption earlier in this debate, it was because the government has focused on corruption in the message we are now discussing, but the Council of State was not involved in that theme in its main article. I also notice that none of the other red-green participants in this debate have been involved in the issue of corruption, and this despite the fact that, as I have said several times before, corruption is the main obstacle to economic beneficial development. Norway and other countries have large budgets for development measures in the third world. Unfortunately, as has also been established in the evening post today, it is difficult to get out of the funds used when the level of corruption in the countries to which it is going is too high. Then the Council of State has asked questions about what the Progress Party will do if the Progress Party will not provide aid to countries that have too much corruption. But that's not what I've been talking about. When Solheim points out that the Progress Party operates with an aid budget of 20 billion dollars. This means choosing one country that has the blackest conscience in terms of corruption, keeping that country to its fright and warning and excluding it from budget support. There is no need to stop other aid measures, but take away from them the budget support – the money that the Norwegian government is pumping directly into the state budgets of these corrupt states, and which we know little about the use of. It will enable Norway to make an effective contribution to the fight against corruption, to work to combat corruption in the countries concerned. In order to take out one country as an example, and to implement sanctions against that country, it will also be noted in other countries characterised by a high level of corruption. So that is the political content that the Progress Party has brought to the fore in this matter and on previous occasions in the Grand Duchy. That is why, once again, I would like to challenge the government for more activity in general in the fight against corruption in beneficiary countries, and not least to propose this measure, which I have now described, as an effective way to launch a anti-corruption programme, in order to make aid funds more effective and make it possible to achieve better results for the population of the countries we are dealing with, by reducing the level of corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e731	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e734	There has recently been a lot of discussion and talk about financial crisis – economic crisis in the world. This may have led us to overstep the two most important crises – without comparison – and that is climate crisis and poverty crisis. I would like to thank the Minister for submitting a communication that shows in a very good way that we must fight against the two most important world crises at the same time, and with an integrated policy. The grip of this government, linking the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Development, has given us a policy and link between these two important areas, which have gradually become a major source of disintegration in the United Kingdom. We are very pleased about that. Now, when we're going to bet on development, maybe the forces that have power in a country will continue to bet on oil and coal and not think so much about climate. It is a form of development that will not be a real development and that will neither be good for the environment nor for the poor in those countries in which one will try to develop. Therefore, it is very important – and it is very important for SV to focus on – that in the development work we have to work to ensure that development work is anchored among the most people in the current country. It is quite obvious that the population base of a country, which is the poor living out in the field, will have much more insight into the fact that a harmful environmental policy is not the solution to their growth problems. Therefore, in the UK, we have been very busy with what is called country-by-country reporting, so that everyone in a country can see how they manage the natural resources that the country has, and see if the values are emigrated from the country or stay in the country. Therefore, for those who are concerned that we should take care of public engagement, we should avoid that they get corruption, very important to support offensive work for country-by-country reporting. I'm not going to go into the full width of the message, but I want to make one point, which shows that there's often a good connection between betting green and betting on what creates quality of life. UNDP has shown that very many people cook their food on ostensibly oily or over coal, and they read in light that can lead to a fire in the cabin. We have many examples of big burns because people have to read with oil lamps or other kind of light. The introduction of renewable energy, a simple solar device that makes a get light and cooking facilities, provide amazing quality of life and is great for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e746	Let me, to the representative Myhre, just make it clear that there is no disagreement about the destructive force of corruption and that it must be combated – something that is done – but I am afraid the recipe is not as simple as the Progress Party prescribes. I asked for the word to point to one of the few points where there seems to be some disagreement in the setting, and that is the comment that the representative Kjell Arvid Svendsen also mentioned, where the Christian People's Party and the Right point out that in the case of aid financing for power generation, there is a need for leadership in order for this business to benefit the poor of the country. A little further up there is a majority where government parties and the same two parties stand together, pointing out that in the guidelines for Norfunds and SN Power's work, investment is set to contribute to poverty reduction and development. Then there will be, like, a nuance difference between the poorest in the country and poverty reduction and development. I would warn against making a difference between thinking in those areas. We often meet in the hearings in the Committee on Budgetary Control that we are not against contributing to energy development or generating energy in developing countries, but it would be a little wrong if we were to focus on a little greater power generation, which also depends on industry and the larger cities. It should preferably be in rural areas. There is, of course, also a need for energy in these cabins – another way of making food that is not flammable, as mentioned here – but we must not underestimate the importance of producing energy and power in developing countries that can be a foundation for stronger economic development. The committee was in Tanzania in September and felt that the flow went several times a day. It is clear that getting some industrial production equipment with a power supply that goes down several times a day is demanding. So you need both. I believe Norway has great competence. We were also looking at a power plant that Norway has contributed to, where a Norwegian researcher also discovered a small frog. If someone had seen it before, it was a little uncertain, but environmental considerations were just taken into account to take care of the biotopes of that frog. This is an example of the fact that we also have the competence to contribute in a slightly larger way that would make it better than would have been without Norwegian intervention. We must not make the ideal the opposite of good. We know what the development of power has meant for the whole of industrialisation and development in Norway. We must do the same in developing countries. The poorest are also dependent on economic growth in these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e761	Let me underline the last point that Svein Roald Hansen had: it is important in power builds that electricity is also given to poor people living near the power plants, but there is no country that can develop without energy on a larger scale. Norway is one of the world's leading examples of energy needs to develop industry and other and not just electrical power to the cabins. There's no difference between the two, you need both. Myhre is trying to give the impression that the Progress Party is more against corruption than the rest of us. But it falls completely flat to the earth – simply because there is no basis for it. On the contrary, the government against which the Progress Party is opposed has implemented a series of anti-corruption measures that were not there when governments were supported by the Progress Party. So you have to stop giving the impression that the Progress Party is more anti-corruption than anyone else. What we need to discuss is what we're doing in practice. Taking out one country, like Tanzania, and declaring it to be the most corrupt, becomes an impractical opportunity. Afghanistan would be better suited if one country were to be taken. Read the Wikileaks reports where Americans reveal corruption on a giant scale in Afghanistan. But it's funny enough that country where the Progress Party never criticises that we're using assistance. I have heard Myhre be against aid in Uganda; I have heard him be against aid in Ethiopia, and I have now heard him be against aid in Tanzania, but I never hear where the 17 000 million. kr that the Contracting Party will use for assistance shall be used. It's an incredibly much more interesting question, because there must be some countries that qualify to receive them, as so much money will be spent. I have asked three times now in this debate, and I ask again. Let's get that list. Marianne Marthinsen took up the Rio Conference. There has been a recording by Norway, and we are now trying to have a dialogue with as many other countries as possible to get weight in that conference. What we want to get out of it is global sustainability goals, at least start a process against it, parallel to the Millennium Goals. Colombia has taken a lead there. Brazil's in. We're trying to put it on the agenda. We're trying to use this conference as a platform for both energy and rainforest. Brazil is the most successful rain forest nation, so it's very natural. It will be a forum for the green economy, but we must avoid the contradiction between developed countries and developing countries. We want to be very, very active towards the Rio Conference. For the time being, it's a lot like being blank sheets where no one really knows what to draw. Then I agree with Holmelid that the link between an economic crisis and the environmental crisis is a crucial prerequisite for the future. Let me end by saying that despite some disagreements about smaller points, it is striking with this debate what a broad consensus there is on what is presented in the communication. I am very, very pleased with the anchoring in a broad, large majority of the Grand Duchy for such key development and environmental policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e778	The representative, Peter N. Myhre, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e781	Is this so hard to understand? We have suggested, on the part of the Progress Party, an action that can be particularly effective in creating better conditions for the fight against corruption: picking out one country and implementing sanctions against it. So ask the Council of State again: what country will the Progress Party provide assistance to? Norway is currently providing assistance to 115 countries. So there are some people left, even if you pick one out, deal with that country and do criminal action, for example. by withdrawing budget support. I just want to say that this is a proposal. The government gets it for free from the Advance Party. They can use it if they want, but if they do not get the results of the anti-corruption measures, they must at least stop criticising the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e788	There's something fascinating about the Progress Party's always simple solutions no matter how complex the problems we face. The representative Myhre has travelled – I know – a lot in developing countries after he arrived at Stortinget, and possibly before. I am absolutely sure that he who has heard the same thing that we have heard – we who have traveled less – that corruption is a phenomenon that does not just exist at the top, so that sanctions can be imposed by drawing budget support. It's penetrating downwards in society. We know that action is being taken in many places, including by the leaders in these countries, to combat corruption downwards in the system, and that they are struggling with it. Taking away the budget support, I don't think the bureaucracy who is going to have money under the table to say yes or no to an application. It doesn't impress the policeman in the street who stops you and takes money to do his job. When we were in Tanzania, we were out visiting several things. What we do, among other things, heard there, that if you were to have access to areas to plant forest, you had to agree with the village nearby. Then you visit the chieftain. It is the state that says yes or no, but some measures need to be agreed on, for example. building school, which we watched. This is the measure that can be taken to allow the village. They're going to have something left in addition to jobs. When you visit the chieftain of the village, you have to bring a gift, and it's often a goat. If you are invited to the annual party in the village, you also have to bring a gift. Is it corruption? No, it got black, it's cute. This is just one example of tradition, which is also part of what we call corruption in our terms. Combating corruption is important. A number of measures have been taken. It's a complicated job to get it done, also to build up control mechanisms, as we do in many countries, using the National Audit Office. There is no smart solution – no quick fix – on it, because if it was found, it would have been solved a long time ago. This applies in this area as in several areas, where the Progress Party later seems to have a quick solution, where the others are standing in the way of putting it into practice. It is a complicated reality that stands in the way of the simple solutions of the Progress Party. Fortunately, they have not been given the opportunity to prove it by coming to government. But the day they get there, they'll meet the reality too fully.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e804	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e822	As long as tourists have been found, tourists have traveled to Norway to look at Norwegian nature. What is spectacular and especially Norwegian? It's not our mountains. They're not very high, they're not very impressive and different from others. Many other countries can sign higher mountains than ours. The special thing about our mountains is that they come straight up from the water. The special thing about Norwegian nature is our fjords, the way the coast has been made by the Spring Lord, and the way we have managed to show that Norwegian nature is special. The only word that helps to make Norwegian nature special is the fjords. In fact, it is so special that this word is the international word, namely 'fjords'. I have noticed that the Council of State has actually been on a study trip before this interpellation. I think that's very positive. It is good that the Council of State does its job properly before he meets in Stortinget. In many places a great job has been done cleaning up after environmental damage that has been done in the past in Norwegian history, especially from the Norwegian industry. We have done a huge job in Norway cleaning up after the industry that has contaminated it. There have been a lot of improvements. There have also been improvements on the Norwegian seabed and in Norwegian fjords, but we still know so little about the state of Norwegian fjords that the Art Database put Norwegian fjords on the red list, because we lack data. We're missing the big perspective on how to take care of them, and a lot of the situation isn't registered. There have been many sources of pollution of Norwegian fjords, and most of it has happened in the last 50 years. Sense if much of the emissions are not directly linked to humans, much of the emissions are taken directly into the food chain, which can affect both reproductive and immune systems and lead to increased mortality for many animals. TBT, a substance that was previously used on boats, we still know Norwegian nature in large quantities and affects Norwegian nature today. The same applies to PCBs and PAHs, which are oestrogen-retardant and can be carcinogenic. Human beings don't have direct contact with all the sediments deep down in the fjord, but we see that what we take up through the nutritional system can affect both human organs, the nervous system and the immune system and can lead to cancer diagnosis. That's why many still fight to clean up their fjords, such as the Left People, for example. jobs to clean Karmsundet, which is a city fjord, and which has had many emissions in it for a long time. In fact, it is so bad that the Food Authority advises people not to eat fish from certain areas, for example, it advises against eating fish. eating fish liver because the PCBs are taken into the food chain, stored in the fat in the fish and makes the liver of fish dangerous to eat. The PAHs, which help make shell inedible, do not give us the opportunity to enjoy the joys of nature. This has a negative impact on both fishing, farming and tourism — yes, also on our shipping traffic, to prevent sediment erosion, leading to the fact that ports cannot be used as efficiently as they could be done. So to today's big challenge, which is mining. Mining is both land-intensive, requires large quantities of fresh water and produces huge amounts of waste. We can manage to find new ways of extracting in the future that make us do it better, but with today's technology, there's very few percent of the mass actually used, and we have a lot of projects like that. The most famous thing we've ever had is Titania Gruver, who has used the Jössingfjord in Sokndal as a landfill. We have Nussir and Rana Gruber, and we have Nordic Mining in Førdefjorden. Common to all of these is that they have plans – or have already started – to dump the waste in a national salmon fjord. These fjords shall initially be protected from contamination. The condition for the application for new mining operations in Repparfjorden in Finnmark and Engebøfjellet in Fördefjorden is that sea dumping of both mass and chemicals, which was also a prerequisite for the iron mine in Kirkenes, with emissions to Bøkfjorden, should be allowed. In most countries in the world, there is a ban on the dumping of mining waste in seas and fjords — in line with, among others. The main international ban on the dumping of industrial waste from countries at sea in the London Convention. Norway is now in the dominant range of the following countries that allow this type of landfill: Norway, Turkey, the Philippines, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. In fact, every other country in the world has a ban on this. Government rates on mining as a new industry for the future in Norway. It could give you a lot of possibilities. We are not critical of it, but an uncritical yes to Norwegian mining operations also means having massive dumping of mining waste and associated toxic chemicals in Norwegian fjords. Both the Marine Research Institute and the Norwegian Fisheries Team have been strongly critical of this dumping. And the Minister of Economic Affairs has said that Norwegian fjords and seas are very deep, so it's a good place, it's an approach I hope the Minister of the Environment does not have, sail if one never knows with this government which Council of State has what approach. The effects of mining waste in the fjord ecosystem may be many. It lays down on the seabed, the bottom animals are strangled, and you get an unproductive seabed for many years. For example, in Bøkfjord, the waste is discharged to very shallow water under a strong tidal current, which causes the fine particles to spread over the whole fjord system. In order to achieve a good economy in the projects, mining requires the use of chemicals to achieve the best quality of the product, such as Magnafloc of different types and Lilafloc. Researchers do not know what consequences this can have, but there are many concerns about the use of these groups of substances. One is concerned that they will not be broken down, and that they will be found in nature in abundant quantities in the future. At the Council of State there are now plans from Southvaranger Gruve to start production, and they are already releasing large quantities of chemicals and mining waste to Bøkfjorden. The company Nordic Mining wants access to landfill in Fördefjorden and Nussir in Repparfjorden. In the Fördefjord in Sogn and Fjordane, there have been objections from the Directorate of Fisheries, which has so far stopped the application for emissions. Kvalsund Municipality is currently handling a control plan for Nussir ASA. The company will release toxic copper waste in Repparfjorden in West Finland. Initially, Norwegian fjords enjoy national and international protection against pollution. Under national laws, the Constitution § 110b, the Law on Marine Resources, the Law on Natural Diversity and the Law on Pollution shall protect the external environment from pollution, limit pollution and ensure the quality of the environment for all – including those who come after us. The national salmon fjords have a special protection because it is an international responsibility to take care of the transatlantic salmon strain. But in this case, it obviously doesn't hold. We in the Left believe that Clif should provide guidelines for the mining industry on how to test chemicals for the environment. If you do not have enough evidence to characterise the chemicals, the precautionary principle must apply – and the chemicals are not used. A new study by the Ministry of the Environment entitled ‘A Norway without Environmental Pollutants’, NOU 2010:9, will report on these criteria and how ‘a more powerful chemical management’ — as it is called — will meet the government’s wish to halt environmental expenditure by 2020. There must be contact between life and learning. We believe that our fjords should not be a waste site for the mining industry. The fjords shall be sustainable – used by the community after good marine ecosystems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e862	It's just to join the interpellant when she starts her post saying that the fjords are the most special in Norwegian nature. We also have a lot to offer, but we have no other attraction with such an international attention and that is so peculiar to Norway. In addition, we are one of a few countries in the world that have such fjords, and therefore, of course, we have a very special responsibility to take good care of them. How strong they are globally was revealed in the National Geographics survey not long ago. Norwegian fjords were in the techikt – in line with the Chinese wall, the Grand Canyon, the Galápagos and the pyramids of Egypt, one of the ultra-attractions on the Earth. So this is one of the coolest things there is. There are 1,190 named fjords in Norway, from the border with Russia in Varangerfjord to the border with Sweden with Ringdalfjorden at Halden. The coastal distance is measured at 83 000 km. It's twice around the Earth at the equator. Not only are the fjords beautiful – they have also been central to Norwegian identity and consciousness. National romance, for example, has a lot of its origin in fjords. Just think of Tideman and God's painting «Brudeferden i Hardanger». I don't think there will be any disagreement in the Storting about the place of fjords, either globally or in terms of their tourist possibilities or their significance for Norwegian identity and self-esteem. So ask the interpellant for a strategy to take care of the fjords. That strategy must necessarily consist of a series of individual elements, because the fjords are subject to pressure and threats from different teams. I'll try to go through the most important of them. The area where we have had great success is in limiting industrial pollution. If you go back a few decades, it was clearly the most important influence on Norwegian fjords. Now it's drastically reduced. I think it's a lot to learn from that process too if you go back and see: what was actually happening when in the 1960s and 1970s the industrial pollution was reduced and then almost stopped? As I see it, there were three things. It was strong political governance. Politicians went in and led the industry, set clear goals. The industry stopped finding excuses for not doing anything, but instead used their creativity and creativity to develop technology that solved the problem. And it was an opinion that demanded both politicians and business that they trade – with Frederic Hauge hanging in the pipes and many other good features in that way. It was the combination of this that solved that problem. I think the same will apply to most other environmental areas in the future. Public regulation, private sector creativity and strong opinion are needed. Although there are no new, major sources of industrial pollution today, there is still a great deal of work in clearing up old sins. There has been a lot of work in the ports of Kristiansand, Oslo and Stamsund. The clearing in Tromsø port will be completed this year. However, efforts to clean up the significant industrial pollution from formerly in Norwegian fjords and along the coast will continue. Then lacetus and escape from the farming industry are major influencing factors and threats to Norwegian fjords. A lot of positive has also happened in this area. There is, of course, a dramatic reduction in escape from Norwegian plants, but at the same time biomass has increased so much that the number of fish actually escaped has nevertheless remained high, although the percentage is still falling. However, the aim here must be to get to zero in the case of escape and also to remove the influence of breeding facilities in the case of salmonnus. A new lice regulation with stricter counting requirements, more frequent reporting and a limit on the maximum permitted number of salmonids are important measures in this respect. The situation is worrying in this area. Then shipping is an important source of influence, not least the two basic collisions in Oslofjord, with ‘Full City’ outside Langesund and ‘Godafoss’ on Hyler. Although the amount of oil coming from both was relatively limited, there was considerable damage, and it was a difficult job to clean it up. In particular, ‘Godafoss’ showed the difficulties of cleaning up in ice waters. So it's a reminder of how serious oil spills will be in arctic strokes. The State Oil Guard Pots have been upgraded and several coastguard vessels are equipped with oil protection equipment. But we can never have enough attention – I think – to the danger of shipwrecks and base bumps, and thus oil spills. An important positive action here, which was included in the first management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten in 2007, was the establishment of sailing managers between Vardø and Røst, approved by the International Maritime Organisation, which brings the sailing out further, thus giving less impact to the fjords. Such leaders are also in place outside the West and the South, and it forces the large vessels further away from the coast. Agriculture is also mentioned by the interpellant. Our assessment is that today it is not generally a major problem for the quality of water in the fjords, but that agriculture also contributes to the overall impact. Therefore, it is also important to bring down that influence factor. The government will present a big picture rather soon, where run-off and action in this area will be mentioned. So the interpellant is occupied with mining. So am I. I was in Sogn and Fjordane two days ago – I would like to see it as a study tour in front of this interpellation – and was presented to the Nordic Mining project with a large depot in Fördefjorden. This is now for treatment in the Ministry of the Environment, so I can't say anything about it in addition to the general one: Of course, all alternatives other than fjord landfills need to be properly investigated. It must be assessed, and it must be certain that it is not possible to have land deposits. It must also be certain that it is not possible to bring the mass back to where it is taken out. The interpellant says that there is only a small percentage used, and – as I understood it – in the Engebøjellet there will be 4 pst. of the mass that will be used. 96 pst, in maximum cases, will in that case be fjorded, unless otherwise applicable to that mass, in construction projects or in another area. It's also true, as the interpellant says, that there are very few countries today that practice landfills at sea or in fjords. Not so many countries have an explicit ban on it, but there are a small number of countries that have an explicit ban on fjord landfill. But there are a lot more countries that don't practice it. We've had a review using our embassies, so we have a full overview of the global situation, which I naturally like to share with the Storting, as to how widespread fjord landfills are. But the main picture is that there are few countries that actually use fjord landfill today. Norway has, as the Stortinget well knows, used it on a significant scale in the past, and an important part of the experience base for a decision on the Fördefjord must also be to look at how these fjord deposits have worked. For example, are they: stable, or do you have to assume that a lot of the mass, when it comes to the piece, is swirling up in the water? The strategy is to address all these individual factors affecting Norwegian fjords. But we have also received a modernized design and building law, we have received the Nature Diversity Act and the Water Regulation. All of this is a big, significant grip that affects the situation in the fjords. The Nature Diversity Act has defined coastal lynghei as a nature type to provide special protection. We've started working on underwater nature. 17 areas have been the subject of a launch message for the national marine protection plan. In the case of water legislation, it is the implementation of the EU Water Directive. We are already describing the state of all water in Norway. This work will be completed in 2012. Then we get a combined knowledge of the state of the environment, of course not just in the fjords, but about the overall quality of water in Norway. In this context, water management plans will be drawn up in all our eleven water regions, so that we can be sure that in 2015 there will be plans for all water bodies. Although this may be a little abstract administrative measures, when it comes to the problem, it has a very great practical impact on actual water quality in fjords and elsewhere. I must finally say that both Trondheimsfjorden and the inner Oslofjord are areas where water quality has become significantly better. Trondheimsfjorden is, together with Tanafjorden, the main salmon fjord in Norway. I would also like to mention in passing that I was in Finland last week and have now agreed with the finding of negotiations on an agreement on Tana and a management of the salmon in Tana. This, of course, is also important for the fjords. But Trondheimsfjorden has gained a significantly better water quality, including: by cleaning up the sediments in the Killingdal area. As for the Oslo Earth, which I personally know even better, although I once represented the South Dream Team on the Stortinget, it's a dramatic improvement. When I was a boy, the situation was nothing near what it is now. There has over time been a dramatic improvement in the water situation in Oslofjord. It is much more attractive to bathe and use the fjord now than it once was.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e900	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Then I would say that I think we have a similar approach to fjords and identity. You can imagine how many Northmen define their geographic belongings from which fjord you belong, so that's a pretty big part of the Norwegian identity. And it's clear that a lot of things have gotten better in many places. Especially as an Oslo citizen, the work done with the Oslo Earth is significant. But I have some challenges for the Council of State that are concrete. I had not expected him to conclude when it came to mining permits today, but some principles can be discussed. One challenge is to use the precautionary principle in chemicals use. One thing is to place big masses in the fjords. Something else is to add a lot of chemicals to the same fjords, including chemicals that we have little knowledge of. That's the first challenge. The other one is whether our salmon fjords should not have a special protection, that they should be extra protected in order to assess this against mining. The third is about the Council of State sharing the Minister of Industry's view that our feathers are so deep. This looks a bit like -- I think I discussed it with the State Secretary to the Council of State this day -- the 1960s view that you could get out of the way how much you wanted to get through the pipes, just the pipes were high enough. It is a bit of the same attitude that the Minister of Industry has towards the fjords – as long as they are deep enough. Finally, I have to say that when you work on these projects, you get a little depressed about the approach and about what district development is, because it's almost like detonating mountains, fjording them and destroying the natural basis in many places that are seen as the great salvation for jobs and district development. But we know today that this is a little old-fashioned way of looking at district development. Sustainable construction and sustainable jobs – the long-term future – are just about building on the natural resources you have and the natural advantages you have. If you can't use anything in a place, for example. natural minerals, in a way that in the long term can also sustainably take care of the site, is a rather short-term way of thinking about jobs, a short-term way of thinking about growth. The SV and the Left have at least had a tradition of thinking that rural development is something long-term, something that is built over time, and thinking about sustainable development as a basis for thinking that we should be able to build a future together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e917	We are undoubtedly united in our love for Norwegian fjords. Then the interpellant comes with three concrete challenges. One is the precautionary principle. The precautionary principle is an established part of Norwegian natural management and will, of course, be part of the treatment of the Engebøfellet case, as it is part of the treatment of all other issues. Then she asks about salmon fjord. The fact that a fjord is a salmon fjord is an extra moment in any case, but I think our starting point is that all Norwegian fjords should be taken care of. They all have fish stocks of different kinds, so let's take care of all the fjords. But of course it's an extra moment if a fjord is salmon fjord. The interpellant quotes my good colleague, Trond Giske, who has said that all Norwegian fjords are deep. To that I have to say that, as a geography, it's probably a six. I think that's the correct geography knowledge – Trond has followed well in the geography hours – the fjords are deep. So that's the political question: what is the conclusion that the fjords are deep? I just want to add: yes, the feathers are deep, but the seabed is important, whether deep or shallow. We have many important sea areas in Norway too, at great depths. The Mariano program has shown us what enormous wealth and stunning beauty – works of art almost – are on the seabed, so we're going to take care of the seabed. The most controversial theme in the Fördefjord is whether the masses that may be placed there will be stable there or be able to move in the water. That question is not resolved at depth alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e930	As grew up in the thickest East, I was actually quite grown up before I came to the West and experienced the spectacular fjord landscape we have here in the country. It can take the breath from someone each, and I suddenly realized why, for example. Geirangerfjord is one of the most visited tourist attractions we have. I may also have wondered why I had visited so many other countries before I went to see this. Of course, keeping our fjords in an environmental state is a great responsibility, so I want to thank the interpellant for addressing a number of the conditions that could potentially threaten the environment in our fjords. The relationship with the farming industry, with what results from the dangers of escape, salmon and genetic dilution, I'm going to leave in exactly this debate, in addition to pointing out that we have a very special responsibility to take care of the North Atlantic wild axis through international conventions we've signed. It's a responsibility we take, and we have to take it seriously, and the constraints that have happened to the breeding industry have been absolutely necessary. But these are things that we're constantly in our own big-time debates, that go on that theme, so I was thinking about saying something about a couple of the other themes that the interpellant is dealing with. Fortunately, it was at the end of the time when you could use the fjords as a garbage bin. It is quite right, as the interpellant points out, that both industrial emissions and the clean-up of old sins have been taken into account. Historically, we have tended to locate heavy industry in the heart of Norwegian fjords. This makes us still struggling with too high values of heavy metals in several fjords. Melting plants, boat constructions and shipyards have traditionally had large emissions, and I believe that we have good reason to be proud in Norway of the fact that we started regulating our industry relatively early, compared to other countries, and started to impose environmental requirements. The Pollution Act is still one of the most important laws we have. Today, marine landfills and leaching of sediments contribute most to the metal pollution of Norwegian fjords. Cleaning up sediments is in progress. It's very important. Recently, questions about mining have been raised again. There is no doubt that mining will provide value creation and jobs, and that there is something we want. The government has even presented its own mineral strategy. Nor is it prohibited in Norway with fjord landfills – that is right. But you have to have permission, and we have to know what we're doing. We need to know that it's environmentally sound if we do. It's not just easy when different disciplines say different things, so I'm concerned that we're getting the right knowledge on the table. All the time for uncertainty must be based on the precautionary principle. The law of natural diversity is ready. It is in any case a prerequisite for mining that you can get profitability in the projects, without our fjords becoming seriously damaged. I think we can establish that there is a broad consensus on that. The interpellant asks about a strategy for the sustainable use of fjords. In recent years, a very clear shift has taken place in Norwegian nature management, away from the management of a single species or protected area to a much more ecosystem-based approach. An algae, a species of fish, or a special seedling is not necessarily very interesting in itself – at least not if you're not a biologist, and it's not me. It's kind of interesting because these species play a role in a whole. The minister said some of the developments that have occurred on the law side in recent years. There's every reason to emphasize it. Norway now has one of the most up-to-date and modern laws in the world in the field of biodiversity. With the Nature Diversity Act, the ecosystem-based way of thinking about a bearer in our law, and that's very good. We got new tools through priority species and selected habitat types. Thus, the impact of the measure on an entire ecosystem is to be assessed under the Nature Diversity Act. It is also this type of overall thinking that will form the basis for the water management plans that are now being worked out and that will be ready in 2015. I am very pleased that this kind of holistic approach also has strong support players in other parties in the Stortinget, and that we are thus getting debates like this in the main hall. So thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e960	Interpellant is right that today there are several controversial issues relating to the environmental standard in Norwegian fjords. Several of the acute pollution problems resulting from industrial poison discharges have begun to be addressed, but new challenges have also emerged. At the same time, new methods of action have also been used, and research is being carried out to solve the problems associated with the previously unfortunate emissions. As an example of this, a highly contaminated area outside Fischerstrand Verft, at 11,000 m2, was covered with suspended biolimcene from Hustadmarmor and also with activated carbon. Biocol from Hustadmarmor is currently being used, for example: for water treatment and liming of watercourses, where there is a problem with acidification. The OPTICAP project is an exciting project that can contribute to solutions to many challenging pollution from the bottom of the sea. When the starting point is to give emission allowances to e.g. mining, one must be able to go in and see explicitly how suitable the individual fjord is in order to deposit sludge. After the point of view of the Progress Party, it is wrong to operate passive land protection over active species protection on a general basis, which we also warn against when natural disasters were agreed. Where possible, we should say yes to both sides – business activity based on bearer power that takes care of the specific species that may be challenged, while at the same time saying yes to activity that creates new jobs and gives districts new, sorely required value creation, which must also be prioritised. Today, we choose an oil wealth to such an extent that we do not benefit from what could provide welfare and alternative jobs in the districts. In the case of agricultural emissions and not least mining emissions, e.g.: In Bøkfjorden and Vørdefjorden, for example, one has to go in and see if one can facilitate this type of activity. It's a fact that Norwegian fjords are special, and we have many of them profiled in travel life. We're very proud of that. I myself live in a part of the entrance to Storfjorden, which ends just in Geiranger. No one has any idea of destroying such a fjord based on unresponsive activity, whether he's attached to mining or anything else. But we have 1,190 fjords from Finnmark to Eastfold. Then we have to be able to go in and evaluate the individual application in concrete terms. Of the interpellants mentioned in their articles, more are in districts where the possibilities of alternative value creation are few – if any. Fjorddeponi are well-known some places due to very deep fjords. Especially when it comes to mining, we know that emissions quickly lie at the bottom, and they don't have to themselves be harmful to life in the spring, other than just in the area where they are deposited. To date, a species can be released for part of the year, except for the time when juveniles migrate into the sea in these important salmon fjords. There are many possibilities, but after the point of the Progress Party, it is wrong to go in for passive land protection as a means of putting in action measures that are land- and species-specific to achieve the same result.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e982	Like the previous speeches, I also live in the heart of a fjord, the Oslo Earth. Fortunately, it has been cleaned up, thanks to, among other things. an urban council that takes the environmental challenges seriously. Let me first thank the interpellant for raising important issues that many of us are concerned with. The interpellant is within several important points. There are many different activities that help to pollute seas and fjords. Take, for example: cruise traffic: particulate emissions to air is a known problem, which must be resolved primarily by facilitating shore-side electricity. But also the sea gets polluted. Gray water from the shower, washing and dishwashing is discharged directly into the fjords. Studies have shown that the grey water from cruise ships contains the most dangerous pollutants, including bromoform, cyanide, naphthalene, fluoranthrene, carbon tetrachloride and toluene — the president followed this? – in water and air. Some of these substances are very carcinogenic. Sewage is another polluter. In our most beautiful western fjords, the sewer goes from 20,000 people, a total of 67 plants, almost unpurified in the fjord and has not been audited by the authorities for several years. Ten plants release the sewage into the fjord, two clean the sewage biologically, and 55 separate the sludge from the rest of the sewer. In Flåm, with about 600 000 visitors, only the sludge is filtered, the rest is released unexplained in the spring. At the same time, we know that sewage is one of the major sources of heavy metals in non-industrialised environments and involves the release of sulfates, nitrates and an unknown amount of environmental pollutants such as heavy metals in the port basin. The effluent leads to the sludge and over-fertilisation of the fjords. The Flanders Basin has previously been an Eldorado for seine fishing, which has not been seen for several years. A possible cause may be the effluent. So what demands will the Council of State make to Norwegian municipalities to meet this challenge? Everyone in this room will probably agree on the importance of maintaining and strengthening the natural quality of Norwegian fjords and port basins. But we're not going to measure on consensus in words, but on what we do in practice. The truth is that the Minister for the Environment has downgraded this area year after year. In 2008, the government proposed a significant reduction in the allocation of clean-up measures in Norwegian fjords and port basins. 70 million. kr – or two thirds of the initial draft budget for 2008 – disappeared. The reason was in and out good enough. It would take time to identify the extent of the clean-up and quality assurance costs before decisions on measures could be taken, but it was assured that the appropriations would escalate sharply in 2010/2011. It was then repeated in the budgets for 2009 and 2010 that efforts were to be put in place from 2011, and then significant costs of clean-up would have to be taken into account. Has the Council followed up its own recommendations in the budgets for 2011 and 2012? On the contrary, it may seem that the Council of State has completely resigned on this issue. In 2010, the government granted 111 million. for clean-up measures. In 2011, the post was cut to 83 million. kr. The big bet was severely cut. In 2012, the degression — or liquidation — of the funds to clean up toxic sediments in fjords and port basins continued. As a preliminary stockpiling level — in addition to halving the allocation for forest protection in Norway — this is a good example of the fact that the Council of State is not concerned with the classical nature protection in Norway. Governments are happy to respond to criticism that he is being hailed abroad. Here we know better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1012	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant Skei Grande for putting an important issue on the agenda – an important and topical debate. Our fjords are our leading advertising posters, and we have to take care of them. We have a long coastline in Norway. We know that our coasts and fjords are affected by fishing, eutrophication or biological change, as the introduction of new species. We also see that we have a problem with overfertilisation along the Skagerrak coast and in some fjords on the South West. We get a higher sea temperature, and along with the overfertilisation, the sugar tar is disappearing in many places. This will in turn have consequences for fish and other animals that live and hide among the sugars. Recently, we've been given a greater focus on mineral extraction in the country. This can provide value creation through jobs, and it is an important debate to take. But mineral extraction can also give rise to some environmental challenges if we do not assume that environmental considerations are to weigh heavily when different considerations are to be weighed. Yesterday I received an answer to a written question from the Council of State Giske. These are wild axles and mining. He writes: «Authorisation of mining operations shall be granted only if the benefit of the measure is considered to be greater than the disadvantages.» He goes on to write: ‘For the extraction of coastal mineral resources, maritime landfill will be a current option, as it is usually less costly than landfill on land.’ On the one hand, the benefits shall be higher and on the other, the costs shall be higher. In any case, I am pleased that the representative of the Workers' Party – the same party as the signatory State Council in this letter – says so clearly in its statement that it is a precautionary principle that must be taken into account for the balances to be taken in this area. The Christian People's Party shares the concern raised by the interpellant, linked to the fjord deposits both in Bøkfjorden and in Fördefjorden. The council said in its contribution to the interpellant that he was concerned about the escape of farmed fish and salmon. It's a concern I share. We have a salmon farm that is growing strong in this country. It is a desired growth, but it is only desirable if it can be sustainable – and it must be a prerequisite for us to be able to take care of our feathers. Then new knowledge needs to be developed. We need to improve technology, and we need more robust operations to master the lucerne situation in the future better than what we do today. The Council of State further stated in its contribution to the interpellant that we have a success story from the 1960s and 1970s when it came to limiting pollution from industry. Yes, it is and was a success story, because we were able to do something. But we have a great cleanup job with regard to the old sins lying there. The representative of Astrup has now gone through the budgets of 2008, but there is no doubt that in the budget that we will adopt in a few weeks' time here in the Chamber, there is currently a deficit of about 20 million. kr in the year’s allocation for the eradication of poison. It's a challenge that this will take more seriously if we're going to be able to clean up the old sins that someone has given us in the past. The Councils of State were involved in much of the water directive. This applies to Norway, and the goal is to have a good ecological and chemical status by 2021. It is quite arduous to do so when, on the part of the government, we are unable to follow up on the overall increase, that the annual appropriations for following up the water directives were to be presented in the various draft budgets, and that we were to follow the timetable for the escalation that we agreed in 2009. This has not happened, and it does something about water quality in our feathers as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1042	First of all, I would like to thank so many participants for their thorough and proper comments. I have to say that I admire those who can work on this topic a little bit wider than us, which is a big group of two. But soon we get to do something about it! I want to start by saying that the left is not against mowing in stone. I'm not against mowing rocks either – I come from an old mining team at Røros, so there's no basis for that. What we need to be aware of is that our fjords are unique and different, and that some of the projects we are talking about here are important salmon fjords, where we have an international responsibility. Some of the fjords we're talking about are very shallow fjords with big currents, where things don't settle down as soon as we let them out. I believe that we should assess our fjords from that point of view. The second point is that it uses a bunch of chemicals that we don't know enough about the effect of. The effects that we know of are not pleasant reading. So we also have to make sure that what is released is clean. So the Council of State, in response to the Christian People's Party, says that the benefit should be greater than the disadvantage of introducing such projects. Then I wonder if you choose the benefits and disadvantages over a short or long time. How far you look at it also means something about what conclusion it will be. Finally, I want to present a challenge to the Council of State: we have something called the London Protocol, which says that we should not dump waste on the high seas. It has been important, and it has been important for Norway as a nation. It is now being discussed whether to include dumping from countries in this protocol – i.e. not what has been meant by the protocol, namely that ships should not release things at sea, but here it is also a matter of not being allowed to dump from land. If the London Protocol is so issued, it will put an end to what Norway is planning to do here. So my question is: will Norway stop such an extension of the London Protocol? And: Will Norway, along with Papua New Guinea and a couple more, be among those who are fighting for us to use the fjords as garbage dumplings? It's kind of strange to be in a situation where we find that countries like the United States and China are more advanced in terms of environmental action than Norway is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1055	I may have to come back with an answer to the question, because I am not familiar with the problem that Trine Skei Grande raises. I repeat what I said in my previous post, that there are not many countries that practice dumping in fjords, but let's not use the names of these countries as shell words. We are talking about Indonesia and the Philippines, countries in rapid economic, social and political development – democratic countries. Let's not use developing countries as shell words in the Norwegian debate. That's what they say. I thank you for a very good debate – good interpellation, exciting debate and also broad consensus. We had it really nice until Astrup took the word and claimed that the government gives the bluff in classical nature protection. Here I suspect he's trying to pull an old cappphest out of the campaign, that I pulled out all the areas where the Right has tried to limit nature protection in Norway in recent years. Let me mention them again. As regards predatory issues, the so-called non-interventional nature areas, the transfer of power from the Ministry of the Environment to other departments to weaken protection, and so-called the coastal zone — a series of nature protection issues where the Right has tried to take a step back. I have allowed myself to point that out, and it has obviously made such an impression on Astrup that he is trying to reverse whatever the debate is about. Let me just mention that this government has implemented the Natural Diversity Act — the most important natural law in Norway perhaps ever, at least for a very, very long time. This government has implemented the law on the land, and this government has been responsible for the largest expansion of national parks ever in Norway. There was also a lot of good work done under Børge Burnde, let me tell you, but it is this government that has done most of the work in this area. This government has almost doubled the budget of the Ministry of the Environment and drastically increased the budgets for almost all nature purposes, and this government has implemented a lot of good forest protection, including Trillemarka. I think that in this area we are quite steady compared to the Right. So Christian People's Party and Right proposals for areas where more money should be spent, whether it's about cleaning up the ports or a better situation for the Water Directive. These are areas that deserve an absolute effort. I would like to meet proposals from these parties on more money for these areas, assuming that there is no cutting in other environmental areas. At least then we will have an exciting and important political debate. Let me finally say that I was going to say something wrong in my previous post, which I would like to correct to Stortinget. I said that coastal lynghei had been developed as a chosen nature type under the Nature Diversity Act. It's a work that's going on. The decision has not been made, so there is no error in the record. In the end, both Astrup and Trine Skei Grande raised important questions about environmental pollutants. Of course, it must be a very thorough assessment of all chemicals before you allow them to be released into a fjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1071	The President would point out that ‘give the blaff’ is an unparliamentary expression in this Chamber, and we should not have that kind of emissions and pollution. The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1089	The turnout in the local elections of the autumn was 64,5 p.m. It was a happy increase of 2.8 pst. in relation to 2007. 245,000 more voted in 2011 than in 2007. On a national basis, 530,000 have actually chosen to vote in advance, an increase of a total of 41.7 pst. from the last elections. In Oslo, almost one in five have voted in advance, and well, 10,000 of these are registered in municipalities other than Oslo. Even if we're going to enjoy progress this year, we definitely can't be satisfied. There's a lot of ways to use their exposure, but there's only one way that gives citizens the direct right to participate, and that's the right to vote. In Norway, we do not have the right to vote, nor is it relevant to introduce it. But if we want a pulsating democracy in the future too, we have to be able to maintain it. It is a challenge that is wider than just participation in elections, and it is a common challenge for both authorities, parties, media, non-governmental organisations and, in particular, the citizens themselves. Studies show that the few are home to two choices in a row. In fact, only one in ten persons with voting rights does not participate twice in a row. All nine out of ten are participating. My claim is therefore that there is hope for Norwegian democracy. But in order to know what we should do, we should start from what engages, mobilizes and actually gets people to the room to vote. Here we need a knowledge update in line with society changing. Election surveys show that there are essentially two reasons why people go and vote in local elections: the sense of civic duty and the need to express what you think. Those who see it as a civic duty to go and vote go to the polls to a great extent. Those who see the election campaign and elections as a public debate, and want to make their views known, also participate in elections. Election participation — shows surveys — therefore, to a small extent as an action where one believes that by participating one will actually influence the policy pursued or in order to care for one’s own interests. Maybe we're here at some of the core of the problem, that many people feel that it doesn't matter anything either to vote or to participate. It's called a power-off. If you ask those who did not participate this year, many people say that the choice had little or no meaning for what will happen in the municipality over the next four years. The lots appear to be the same, and it is difficult to choose. Studies also show that electoral participation has fallen particularly much among those who regard the choice as unimportant. Many of these are relatively young. My claim is that we are getting fewer and fewer who think of the word "citizen duty" when we are going to justify why we vote. ‘Citizenship’ is a more appropriate word for many today. As elected representatives, we have to assume that more and more voters are looking at walking and voting as one thing they're going to do because they think it's worth spending time on it. A little bit of a point, you could say that some people relate to choices that they relate to Idol, Robinson, or Should we dance. Is that wrong? Yes, I think we agree with this room that politics will never be like Idol, at the same time I think we need to understand the changes in order to meet the challenge with the right approach. It is in municipalities that have an active religious life that are major contributors to national collection actions for humanitarian conditions, which have a low divorce rate and with an ageing population – i.e. municipalities where traditional values seem to be strong – that we find the highest turnout. A study of 324 democratic elections in 91 different countries confirms this. Both the level of economic development, the degree of literacy, population size and density, voting obligations, age of voting rights, electoral system, the level of choice, the number of parties making elections, and the number of participants in the elections. In addition, of course, participation in elections is influenced by how interested you are in local politics, and whether you find it difficult to find out which party you are going to vote on. In Norway, the interest in local policies and policies in general is high, yet participation in local elections is low. The trend is also that the loyalty and feeling of belonging to a particular party are weakened. At the same time, a value-based message is absent in many debates. Many people have problems choosing a party because the parties appear to be alike. The content and form of the policy must be mobilised. The same thing needs to be done. Conflicts and clear positions engage voters and mobilise voters. At the same time, the electoral system is important – a system that is candidate-centred versus a party-centred system affects. How do different organisations and technological solutions contribute to policy mobilisation? What issues of conflict are discussed in the election campaign? Different political parties have different nomination processes. The number of precumulatives also determines the ability of people to change the order. We need to organise elections in a good way – to simplify voting, to increase the availability of prior voting and to increase the ability to vote in public institutions such as hospitals, nursing homes, higher education institutions and secondary schools. Maybe election staff should also go to malls and events? All of this may be important factors for capturing people who would otherwise choose the sofa. Humorist Are Kalvø writes that once in the future, we're going to laugh that people were waiting in front of community houses and gyms to vote. He may get it right, but not quite yet. The trials around electronic choices this year show higher participation. All participating municipalities have an increase in the number of pre-selections. Nevertheless, the scheme has weaknesses, and it has not yet been concluded in terms of how to follow it up. The biggest problem is that it's not safe to break in, and that one doesn't know who's voting. But I'm actually convinced that someday the engineers will overcome this technology challenge. The day you do it, and electronic elections are safe enough, Are Kalvø has to get right. It is too early to say how the first-time voters behaved this year. What we know is that only one third of them – until now – vote. Many of the first pickers, I think, are uncertain about how they should do it. I think one could get the degree of first-time voters through better education in school. In addition, there is also a very exciting debate on how to follow up the voting procedures for 16-year-olds. Finally, I would like to say a little about the common election day. Personally, I'm for it. Experience from Sweden shows that a single election day also increases electoral participation in local elections, strengthens electoral participation and increases political interest. At the same time, the common election day has some disadvantages, and it can make less room for local issues to be made visible, while making it clearer that national and local policies are linked by a single election day. I believe we should do what we can to ensure that the increased turnout this year becomes a lasting trend. That's why I want a comprehensive study and an update of the knowledge status, where we actually ask those who went and voted: what made you go to the room? And maybe also ask the question, what's going to happen to make you vote next time? I look forward to the debate. This is a debate that gives us all the opportunity to air some thoughts and ideas. I look forward to the views of the Council of State on the challenges of electoral participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1123	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing the question of what can be done to increase the selection process. As the interpellant quite rightly points out, the electoral process at the last municipal and county elections was not as high as many of us had hoped for. Nevertheless, figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that the electoral process at the last municipal elections was the highest since 1991. At the time, the electoral election was 66 pst. Numbers from the last three options may indicate that the negative development the interpellant refers to has been reversed. For while the election ceremony at the municipal elections in 2003 was 59 pst. and in 2007 61.2 pst., the election ceremony at this municipal election was 64.2 pst. This means that the selection increase by more than 5 percentage points in this period. Nearly 400,000 more people voiced at the municipal government elections in 2011 than at the 2003 elections. In county elections, there has also been a positive development that is worth noting. The turnout in 2003 was 55.6 p.m., with an increase of 57.5 p.m. in 2007. The figure from the Statistical Central Bureau shows a turnout at the year's 59.9 pst district elections. This is an increase of more than 4 percentage points since 2003. The interpellant indicates that democracy depends on the competence, desire and ability of the inhabitants to participate through established political parties, organisations and elections. I'm going to write this down. When it comes to the choice of choice, I'm very busy reaching all the options, and in this context, I want to show that the department uses a range of tools in advance of each choice to increase the knowledge of the individual selection and of the different selection groups. I would like to include: indicate that the Ministry informed prior to the last elections through: Notices in all major newspapers on the website val.no – or the valportal, which we call him in the daily language a brochure to all households in the country, which was also translated into a range of languages of his own information campaign, including: contained TV, cinema and radio spots, web ads, online games, information films for use in advanced schools, information on text television and the use of social media such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube I would also like to point out that the Ministry also had measures aimed at the first-time voters, migrants with a background, special needs selectors, such as blind, partially syndicated, hearing impaired, etc., and against voters who lived abroad. It is also important to bear in mind that a number of voluntary organisations are actively involved in increasing the understanding of the electoral system between their members. By means of a separate incentive scheme, the Ministry supports voluntary organisations and teams. They implement different measures, which improve the understanding of the Norwegian electoral system by different target groups and why it is important to exercise the right to vote. Local authorities also carry out a wide range of information work. In particular, I would like to point out that the election board in the individual municipality sends election cards to all voters who are listed. I also know that the election board in many municipalities, as well as the election card broadcast, is doing a lot of good work to get the residents to the elections. In the fall election, 16-year-olds in 20 selected municipalities were also allowed to speak. This was a trial plan, and the pretense numbers show that the 16-year-olds had a much higher turnout than usual for the first-time voters. This is interesting. The test shall now be evaluated widely. When the evaluation is carried out, I want a broad societal debate on the matter. For my own part, I'm more positive with the 16- and 17-year-olds than I was before the trial, not least after dialogue with very prominent young people. When it comes to the ability of the voters to hear, I am very busy that, in addition to good information about the choice, we also help all voters to benefit from their right to voice. In order for us to be able to do this, it is necessary for everyone to have good access. This applies to physical access, but also to the availability of sufficient time for voters to hear. The voice must be arranged in such a way that all the selectors can voice as much as possible without the help of others. Compared to other countries, the preconsumption period is very long in this country, and the voters have great flexibility when it comes to the time when they want to voice. Prior to the previous roll-out, a system of early noise detection was agreed, which allows the voters to pre-estimate from 1 July until Friday before the election day. The design of the selection venues is also getting better and better. An examination from the year's choices shows that 80 pst. of the motion retardants and 86 pst. of those with visual impairments, there were no physical obstacles at the entrance to the selection room. All 93 pst. of the motion retardants and 92 pst. by those with visual impairments, they said that they did not experience any physical obstacles within the selection room. About 87 pst. was satisfied with the assistance they received from the function options. The large majority felt that the polling facilities were well organised, but it is my goal that the municipalities should be even better than this before the upcoming decision to raise them. In order to help make the polling facilities more universal, so that everyone can benefit from them, the department has developed a new type of currency, option closure and signage program. Prior to the elections in recent years, the Ministry has advised municipalities to see where they are located, and at the opening hours of the polls. The aim is for the selectors to be able to shake in places where they often travel and for opening hours to allow the selectors to voice outside of normal working hours. Accessibility of options is carefully evaluated according to each option. I have had dialogue with the students' organization, and I know that it is very desirable that we arrange the place of study, not least because many of the students there actually have a place in municipalities other than where the place of study is located. I don't think knowledge and access itself is enough to get the voters to hear, they must, as the interpellant says, also want to hear. In order to stimulate increased voting, it is important to know why people do not use their right to vote. Here, there are several factors involved. It can come from individual circumstances. For example, lower participation may be due to changes in the attitudes of the representative institutions. Maybe the sense of civic duty is less now than it was before? Many voters speak out because they perceive such actions as close to an obligation. Research has shown that this sense of civic responsibility has been less widespread, especially among young people. Election participation can also be reduced as a result of changes in social developments and policies. I know that many people see it as less attractive to voice because they perceive the political divides between the parties locally as more unclear than before. This may be due to the fact that politicians do not manage enough to get the message to the voters in a way that makes them understand the political differences between the parties. I believe that reduced municipal action spaces can also be developed as an explanation of reduced electoral selection in municipal and county elections. If the action space of the local politicians is narrowed, this can make the local authorities less aware of the party in the local government and the local government. Sweden’s experience shows that by combining local and parliamentary choices, there are several who also respond to local choices. There are also some who are in favour of a common election day in Norway. I think it's a too easy solution. We'll have a local choice where the local issues disappear in the national election. Municipalities and municipalities will become less visible as their own political bodies. Moreover, general democracy in the country will be weak when we only have elections every four years. We rarely get the mobilisation of political debate that follows with each election campaign. The interpellant emphasizes that we may be able to learn something from those who chose to voice. I think it's a good idea. At the same time, we need to ask questions about why we are not able to involve more people in the community when we know how important the election result is for municipalities. There is a wide variation in the selection range between municipalities today. On the 12th of September, Fadje had a election roll of 86.6 pst, and in all ten municipalities with the highest voter turnout, it was over 78 pst. as voice, while the lowest voter in a municipality was 54.6 pst. The ten municipalities that had the lowest turnout attendance, all had a participation of less than 58 pst. These are interesting differences, and so I've already decided that the department will carry out an investigation where we look at the characteristics of municipalities that have a high turnout rate and those that have a low turnout rate. I hope this can give us additional knowledge and understanding, and that this can be useful in the further work of increasing voting time. We also had an electronic voice-squeezing test on this option. Like Are Kalvø, I think in a few years it'll be the rule more than the exception. In this hall, there was strong dissenting when the attempt was introduced, and the doubt that Stortinget's members had must be taken with the utmost seriousness. It's supposed to be a secret voice, and the technological solutions have to be good enough. That is the same as voting rights for 16- and 17-year-olds now being evaluated, and then the Stortinget will also have the chance to discuss where the road is going. However, what I can do as the Council of State and the Ministry is bounded to bring up the electoral process. The most important thing is that local parties and local politicians take on important local issues, create local involvement and give citizens a sense of and need to voice. I'd also like to ask the youth team to come up with an idea of what they think might help to increase the turnout. The media plays an important role, and I would like to commend the media on this local election, with a view to placing more local candidates and local issues on the agenda, also in the debate on national politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1183	I would like to thank the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs for a good and comprehensive response and, to the extent possible, for an offensive attitude that draws a broad picture of this debate. I want to comment on a few things. One is what the Council of State says about the organisation of electoral facilities and universal design. There's been a good job there in the last few years. It should be just a lack, but this government has put considerable effort into a law that prevents discrimination against people with disabilities and that also gives the right to universal design, and it also produces results in the form of better organised electoral facilities and making voting easier for people with disabilities. It's very, very important, and I think it's happy the work that has been done. So the Council of State was about that with information: there has also been a lot of good work done, and «val.no» is a good website I myself have used a lot, and a simple place to get an overview of the choice. At the same time, I think that we still have a great potential to train both immigrant groups and first-time voters in how to actually make a choice. It's gotten easier and easier to go and vote, but I think it's a myth in many that it's still quite difficult. There we have a job to do, and I think the school could have had a role in it, especially in the case of first-time voters. So I want to introduce a couple of things. When it comes to mobilizing and engaging, we have behind us a campaign where social media, the Internet, have a much greater significance than before. Both social sites such as Twitter, the link between many politicians and journalists and organisations, have been important, and perhaps even Facebook has played a role in this local election campaign. And then I can put on the working party hat, which I always wear: my experience is that those channels are very, very important to reach out, especially to young people, but they can never replace the personal meeting. One of the things we've built a lot of our election campaign on in the Workers' Party is knocking on doors and hitting people and mobilizing through it, that is, by meeting our own people out in the street. It appreciates very much, the personal meeting with a politician. Many may have never met a politician or talked to a politician properly. We must never forget about technology that it's not either one or the other, it's both. So I look forward to the debate and can comment a little bit more towards the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1196	I am grateful for the good words about the work done with both universal design and information, and I am very happy that we are coming ever further on universal design, making society accessible. It applies in many areas, but is not least important for people to benefit from their rights, and in this case the right to vote. When it comes to information, I talk a lot to 16- and 17-year-olds before the election, and the remark that was attached to that experiment, I think the election was good up to 60 pst, i.e., more in line with the election, or among people, compared to the other first-time voters, the 18-year-olds. The voter for them does not know anything yet, but at least in previous or previous options it has a doctor of about 33 pst, and of course it is too low. What many young people have said to me is that they want more activity, more information, that municipalities and schools are more active against that group. At least then the feedback I've received is that you think the selection will also be higher. So there's a couple of positive things about having a lower voice age, because then you live in your own municipality. When you're 18, there's a lot of people who move out and hang out, and it could be a little bit longer to use the right of voice. At the same time, it is all the more important to ensure that it is easy to do so, at study places and other places, and that one also gets attention attached to the choice. Social media and the Internet can never replace the personal meeting – I fully agree with that. But we see that the debates on social media are becoming more and more important in each of the choices. And it is also important when we discuss elections and election campaigns, that one might bring up the discussions on the political issues, that we do not go even further in personalising the elections to a few people, but that it is actually the content of the policy that is being debated. It is at least as important in local elections as in major elections. For my part, it's a main reason to be skeptical about having one common election day. I think it's important to see local democracy. Local democracy in Norway has always been the leader of great democracy. Different reforms have always come first in local democracy, whether it was the right of voice for women or other important upheavals. We also see this in connection with the discussion on voting rights for 16- and 17-year-olds. Common choices will make it even harder for the voters to put local politicians in charge of the elections, and it is also an important part of having choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1211	Discussing electoral participation and how to increase it is very important. Democracy and the development of democracy are based on participation. It is not without reason that it is called «voting». It's a right that we residents have. Not everyone uses this right. It's time to discuss why they don't. When you see that people are waiting for days to vote in new democracies, while our well-established democracy is not as much recruiting for electoral cows, you have to wonder. Of course, the image is not comparable, but can give ground for reflection. It's easy to understand that what people have fought to do is appreciated and put into practice. But it can also shine so that where democracy is well established, it is taken for granted. Low turnout may mean that most things are going well, or that there is little commitment. It could also mean that the individual doesn't feel that their voice is worth anything, that voting doesn't matter. But every voice means something. We've just had municipal elections in Norway. In some municipalities, the choice was decided by a few votes. There are many examples of every single voice counting, and that exactly one voice tipping the outcome in either one direction or the other. An election result is just the sum of all the votes added together, which determines the composition of, for example, local government, county councils or the Storting. In the autumn municipal elections were decided in the municipality of Ski by less than one vote. The Labour Party lost one mandate, and it became a bourgeois majority. Ski is a municipality of over 28 000 inhabitants, and this clearly shows that all votes count. We have several examples of sleighs appearing on the lists, counting, and determining election results. In Steigen municipality in Nordland hill SV a mandate at the expense of the Progress Party, with one slangger's overweight. It decided the election in Steigen. It is part of the story that the municipality carried out three censuses in order to be absolutely sure. Ski spoke five times, according to the media. Small margins can make a huge impact. These are good examples for both Steigen and Ski. I believe that we should take seriously that someone says that they feel that their voice does not matter. There may be an abstinence reaction to power concentration, or there may be a lack of knowledge about the system. It can also be an expression of little or no interest in politics – it is also a democratic right. Another argument put forward is that there are so few divisions in Norwegian policy. We hardly agree on that in this room, but if we look at it a little bit bigger, I think we have to be able to say that in many other countries there are greater differences of opinion between different parties. Now it's not a point of discord for the sake of the disagreement, but I think that participation can increase if we make clear the dividing lines and the different positions. It will be easier to learn about the political landscape, and it will be easier for the voters to find the party that corresponds most to their own perceptions. I believe that we politicians, at whatever level, have a task on behalf of democracy in targeting and raising awareness of participation – not only on political issues but also in society in general. More participation means a more democratic society, and it's of the good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1230	Let me first say that it is gratifying that there was an increase in the turnout in the year's elections. As the municipal minister also said, there has been a local election with good participation. It's been 20 years since the last time we had the same participation. So the question, as Laila Gustavsen says, what can we do to increase the turnout? Well, there's a lot of things you can do by making things better, by making things easier, etc. But there's one point that might be overwhelming, and that's that the voters actually have a reason to go to the urns, that it's interesting to vote, that there's a political debate between different alternatives where the voters know that if they vote on one option, they get such a solution, they vote on the other, they get such a solution. Then comes the question to which we – unfortunately, the municipal minister – are constantly returning: the relationship between the state and the municipality will also be an important element for this with electoral participation. Because if the municipalities have a greater right of self-determination, if they have more to say, if there's a greater chance of influencing the outcome of a case, and that it can actually be determined in the municipality, then it creates increased commitment. We can see that around Norwegian municipalities today. Where there have been clear alternatives, where there have been and where there have been interesting duels between different rapporteur candidates, we also see that there can be a decision in the vote. I believe the political debate – the political change of words – is what determines whether there will be an increase in electoral participation. We can also look at another parameter, namely the county election participation versus the municipal election participation. It's the same voters who put their ballot in the municipal election box that can put it in the county election box. Still, it's almost 4.5 to 4.7 pst. difference in the turnout between local elections and county elections. So when you're already in the polling room and you have the opportunity to put two ballots in the urn, you just pick to put one up. There's a lot of people doing it. 4-5 pst. there are many voters. What's that expression for? Well, I guess it's an expression that they don't think it's so exciting and interesting to vote at the county elections -- maybe because they don't know any candidates, maybe because they don't have kids in high school or have any special interests. Everyone has a road they're going to drive on, but it's not sure they think of the county municipality as a road owner. So how interesting it is to vote, I think it has a lot to do with what policy tasks the different levels of government are going to do. This can also be seen by comparing participation in the capital with participation in the county and municipal elections. It is significantly higher in the case of grossing-up. It's because the voters know that here in this room -- at least in normal times -- a lot of exciting things are decided, and whether it's majority government or minority government, this is where the power lies in the big decisions. In the case of local elections, the voters will be elected when a municipality, for example: have a discussion about imposing property taxes, know that there are two clear alternatives. But in some other cases, they don't know that, because they don't know about the state, the state, the state or others, the decisions the municipality makes, for example. in an area issue. This can lead many to feel that there is no one here who decides this anyway, so it's not so interesting to vote. So I think revitalising the municipality – giving the municipality more opportunity to make its own decisions, to have more freedom of action, to give up a little of the state guidelines and to override it – could also contribute to increased participation. So there's been some experiments -- I was just saying -- this time: E-choice we've discussed before. I find at least that the turnout in the ten municipalities that had e-choices is marginally lower than in those municipalities that did not have e-choices. So the turnout went up a little bit in the e-election municipalities, but it went up more in the other municipalities. So some huge success in relation to increased turnout was probably not this project. And when we know that scientists at Norsk Regnesentral have also broken into the system and hacked it, it's probably a project that was a little premature. As the Council of Navarsete said, it is totally dependent on the fact that we can have secret choices. I think, like Laila Gustavsen, that in order to reach youth, social media is important. We had in this election campaign violent hits on our websites when there were interesting things. Of course, the most important thing is the personal meeting with the voters. It's becoming the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1247	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important question. The statistics show a steady decline in electoral participation, from 81 pst. in 1963 to 59 p.m. in 2003. The last two elections show a positive trend, with an electoral turnout of 62 pst. at the end of the year. It's a pleasure that the negative development has turned around, but we can't be satisfied that almost four out of ten choose to sit at home on election day. Low turnout is no strength for democracy. Participation in elections depends, in my opinion, on three aspects. That's information, that's availability, and that's interest. I think the piece of information is well taken care of. All persons entitled to vote receive election information in the post, all municipalities have websites with the necessary information, opening hours in the polls are advertised both via the website and in the newspapers. As explained by the Council of State, targeted actions have been implemented – both in the public sector and by non-governmental organisations – to inform, for example, the public sector. first-time voters and voters with a migrant background on how they can vote and the importance of using their voting rights. The accessibility is also good. The universal design requirement also applies, of course, to the constituencies. If any constituencies do not meet the requirement, those sitting in the constituencies are obliged to receive the vote on the outside of the room. Many municipalities open up pre-consents at home for the elderly and others who have problems getting to the polling room, and many organise pre-consents at health institutions. Norway has a longer period of prior voting than many other countries. I also feel that opening hours in the polling rooms are liberal – that everyone has the opportunity to visit the polling room either before or after working hours. In spite of comments in the local community from hacked hunters who wonder who can figure out how to add the election day to the first week of the ripe hunting, I don't think any time or availability will prevent any major election participation. Then we're left with a lack of interest and commitment. I think the interest in politics in general has been decreasing. Decreases in membership of political parties, at least until 22 July, indicate this. Why have we got this development? Do we have it too well here in the country? Do we take the welfare goods as a matter of course? Despite press releases about the poor situation in some areas, Norway is in a special class in terms of living standards and welfare services. Is it that the voters perceive that the municipalities are too much under state control and that local politicians have too little influence? When government sector authorities limit the development of industry in the municipalities, when the county as the state representative accuses unanimous local government decisions, do we perhaps signal to our voters that it is less important who sits on the local government? Or is it that the political parties are becoming more and more equal, so that the voters don't think it matters who is governing the municipality? Is it still the case that central politicians and national issues are given too much space in the election campaign at the expense of local issues? Colliding local choices with big shots is at least not a good idea. At that time, all attention will be focused on key issues, and local politicians will have even greater problems coming up in the media. Local choices along with decision making will weaken the interest and attention of local policy, not increase it. The turnout is very different from municipality to municipality. That's why I'm glad that the department is going to carry out a survey of what characterises municipalities with high turnouts, and what we can learn from them. Even I come from Holtålen, a small municipality with 2,000 inhabitants, a municipality where the turnout has always been far above the national average – with 77 pst. in 2007, 76 now this year – without me explaining why. At least it's not due to a very engaging campaign, it was almost absent due to the state of emergency after the flood that hit us on 16 August. Could it be because we're a small community where everyone knows everyone? The voters know the municipal government candidates and know what they stand for. The distance between citizens and politicians is small, and anyone can step into the rapporteur's office if there is something on their mind. I think it's important to involve the voters even outside the election campaign. We have to be better at organizing people's meetings throughout the municipal government period. [[The President clubs.]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1281	Letting not vote is a fundamental democratic right. But at the same time, it means leaving to others to decide. We did not receive a record high turnout in the autumn's selection. With the reactions after July 22, we can state that people do not go to the elections in solidarity with democracy, because politicians encourage it, or because they feel it is a moral duty. It's about something else. I don't think it's about laxity or uninvitedness, lack of knowledge or the relationship of the municipalities with the county. I think it's about renunciation and alienation. I would like to thank the representative Laila Gustavsen for giving us this opportunity to discuss an important question. International studies show consistency between socio-economic conditions and electoral participation. We see the same thing in Norway. Among people with high education, high income and high occupational status, there is a higher turnout than among others. At the same time, many homeowners state that they do not trust politicians or that it does not matter from time to time. Some choose not to use the vote as a deliberate protest, but many do not. I am sure that many who experience powerlessness otherwise in life experience politics as an extension of that powerlessness, not as a means of getting it better. It's a cross of thought. The municipality of the country with the lowest turnout had a attendance of 54 p.m. But if we look only at municipalities and municipal boundaries, and are concerned that municipalities can learn from each other, we only get one part of a larger picture. The country's very lowest turnout is hidden in an average for the municipality of Oslo. In the Oslo districts of Grünerløkka and Grorud – which have 46 000 and 26 000 inhabitants respectively – only 52 votes in favour. The city of Alna voted 53 p.m., and the city of Stovner and the city of Old Oslo was 54. These five eastern parts of Oslo are not small constituencies. There's a total of 200,000 people there. And so they had lower turnouts than all Norwegian municipalities. It is claimed that the amortization increases by a distance from where the decisions are taken. If low turnout is an expression of repulsion – and I think so – distance in kilometers is not decisive. But if we mean by distance the experience of distance culturally and socio-economically, that might be right. The areas with the lowest electoral turnout in the country are just a short walk from this pulpit, and to the others you can take the T-course. The urban areas in question are different. They are e.g. not the metropolitan areas of Oslo with the greatest living conditions challenges. The city of Sakene, which has the lowest life expectancy in the country, has a higher turnout. However, urban areas with low turnouts have a common feature: large differences within urban boundaries, many young people and many people with a migrant background. Both first-time voters and minorities use voting rights to a lesser extent than others. In southern Europe, we now see people going into the streets protesting against unemployment and budget cuts, against financial elites and against politicians who are unable to solve problems. In Spain, both the ruling socialist party and the opposition have invited the Protestants, the so-called ‘loose indignanados’ — the indignant — to join parties and participate in democracy. They haven't. The indignant protest not only against the politicians who happen to have power, they protest against the political system itself. People's government doesn't wonder if people can't get to the polling room, but it's wondering if people don't care about getting there. In general, Norwegian society is characterised by a strong sense of community. Low turnout is a signal that many people feel that they are not part of this community – that they are outside. The goal of a society in which everyone is involved is important for many, many reasons. Low turnout is part of a larger image. The concept of two thirds society is an image of alienation, an image of a shared society. At the fall's elections we landed right there – two and a half votes, one and a half would be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1304	I'll start the post with a statement, and that's that a democracy gets exactly the vote it deserves – neither a voice too much nor a voice too little. Complaining about the turnout is essential to complain that the population does not live up to a standard. I would also like to say that it is not for the electors to fulfil the ambitions or hopes of their representatives – some of us would actually be of the opinion that it should be the opposite. When I listened to the debate, I thought a little bit about Bertolt Brecht's ironic reference to the authorities of East Germany, which in 1953 had to put down an uprising among the workers—paradoxically, a uprising in the self-proclaimed working and peasant state. Brecht, who was otherwise in favour of the system, put the following statements in the mouth of the government: When the people have failed the trust of the Central Committee, the Central Committee has now elected a new people. Fortunately, we are far from such attitudes, and today the so-called popular democracies, who also had some support in Norway, are replaced by real democracies. But what's interesting about this interpellation is that it provides the basis for a reflective conversation even in our functional and durable and well-developed democracy about what might be behind a lower turnout. So let me repeat the starting point, that it's actually not the Storting that's the state's top organ, it's the voters in elections. The Constitution actually uses the wording ‘Valghinget’ – the largest upper house. In a democracy, the voters are right. It is therefore not the behaviour of the voters to be influenced by their representatives – not by information campaigns, not by the fact that the press or the NRK go beyond their communication and reporting tasks by mobilising the electorate, not by the Flax weight of those who come forward and vote, as proposed in a municipality, and not by the voting obligation, which was called for by some during the municipal elections earlier this autumn. Such external surface action will only cover the problem that it is more important that we address. Then I would also like to remind you that low turnout does not necessarily have to be an expression of the imminent collapse of democracy. Low participation may also indicate that the overall level of conflict in society is lower, and that for many people – it is totally incomprehensible to us who live and breathe for politics – policies are for the reason that marketers call a low-level product. Then it might be that they get engaged on the day they feel that something really is at stake, and they really have to fight for their existence. But luckily you can also say that it can be a sign of a pretty good society that people don't feel their existence threatened by a particular election outcome. This, in turn, could also help to ensure that there is no mobilization in the elections. But if we're going to be self-critical and a little reflective, I think that the election process at municipal elections, which is far below the culmination of the election, can be seen in the context of local democracy being under pressure, that in reality it's the state's priorities, money and uncoordinated special interests that restrict local freedom of action, and that the voters have for the longest time discovered it. I also believe that the voters should be given greater influence over which people are actually elected to a local government. A first step may be to reintroduce the option, which the Stortinge has taken from local voters, to delete candidates from the electoral lists. I also believe that in the event of enlargement, voters should be given greater influence in choosing between people and not just between party lists, and that, for that matter, it could also be easier to get a position outside the party system if there were people who would miss themselves in the politics. Apart from such changes in electoral arrangements, local responsibilities and rules of play to further develop democracy, there is also a need to take seriously the warnings of lower electoral participation. If it's due to the distance between voters' own perceptions of how to respect popular culture and how to experience political games, with tactics and many gaming situations, it can also create a sense of distance in addition to the sense of remorse that Haugli's representative was in. Unfortunately, we should not go back further than yesterday's Question Time to illustrate another reason why people feel a distance from political life. Then it turned out that a guarantee given during the campaign about 20 days of treatment for cancer patients turned out to be a target formulation that had no root in reality. It also creates if not weary, so at least the maturing of the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1325	Elections in the local government and county elections in the fall were the highest in a while. What gets better is always good. After July 22nd, we have focused a great deal on the importance of democracy, and we have encouraged the voters to call around the People's Rule by using the voting rights. So we probably had expectations of a greater improvement in voting than we've seen now. Many of us think it's high time to vote on the election date. At the same time, flexibility shows itself to be important to reach the highest number of voters possible. The number of pre-students has increased by 5.5 percentage points since 2007 and 10.3 percentage points since 2003. This shows that more and more people are able to vote in advance. This is happening all over the country. It is good and may be one of several important factors to keep the selection up. Furthermore, exciting tests with e-options show that one here achieves an extra high degree of preselection. These are schemes that should be further worked on. We are proud of Norwegian democracy. However, the selection is not among the highest compared to other countries. For example, Sweden, Denmark and Iceland have a higher turnout than us. Norwegian society is characterised by a great sense of community and consensus on broad political lines. The game differences are considered to be smaller here than in many other countries. This may be some of the reasons why the selectors do not give priority to voting. The political parties and the media have a responsibility to show important differences between the parties. It may be difficult for the voters to see the consequences of choosing one or the other. The political blocks have a responsibility in the election campaign to be clear on who will cooperate with who. The red-green part is a good example that the voters know what the constellation and any future government they vote for. There has been much more confusion on the part of the city. Clear, manageable government options are important to motivate the voters to go to the options. Often it turns out that there are few votes that decide whether a party gets nine or ten representatives into a local government. In other words, every voice count – which many people have been in. Furthermore, as mentioned, the focus on clear control options is important to show the selection selectors. We want the option to be as representative as possible. Low electoral suffocation can thus weaken democracy. When approx. 40 pst. by the voters, it is absolutely time to put participation on the agenda, as the interpellant has done in a good way. Homeowners have political interests that are underrepresented when they do not use their voting rights. This may help to ensure that governing political bodies are not sufficiently representative of the population to be represented. Of course, national government depends on the people getting involved, and that the broadest possible layers of the people see this as important enough to benefit from the vote. There is relatively low turnout among immigrants with Norwegian citizenship. The SSB has carried out studies on the use of voting rights among immigrants with Norwegian citizenship in elections in 2001 and 2005. Only at the top of 50 pst. of these useful voting rights. We may find it difficult to conclude on the reasons for this, but we should look for reasons in the future. With a selection of about 50 pst. there is reason to think that some people do not feel that the choice concerns them. The potential for changing this outreach is great. It is necessary to find good tools to involve the whole population in municipal, county and urban elections. It is appropriate to clarify and implement targeted measures to ensure that voting increases, not least among those communities with low voting rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1341	The legitimacy of the People's Government depends on the break-up of elections. There is a limit to how little disintegration in participation we can have in the elections before they lose their legitimacy. I will not take on that task today and decide where that limit goes, but for the undersigned at least the most important reason is to be concerned about the vote. The Prime Minister said after July 22 that the election act is the very foundation of our democracy. That is the opportunity for all the authorities to participate directly in democracy through concrete action. For those of us who are politically active and who operate on a daily basis in this Chamber, it may be difficult to understand that someone can choose not to participate in the elections. I agree with the interpellant that we can learn something from those who went and voted in the elections. At the same time, I think there is reason to point out that we may well be able to learn as much of those who did not vote in the elections. Maybe the challenge is to get them to speak. The representative of Greece was concerned that there should be clear lines of conflict and clear choices, and that it could be mobilising. I think for some voters it might seem mobilizing. But I think there will also be many in those municipalities that had relatively low turnouts, who would disagree with the representative of Greece that there were no important issues that were up to debate and that the voters had to decide on even in the year's elections. At the municipal elections of the year, there were two interesting attempts. One was about trying to give 16-year-olds the right to vote. The second was about the ability to voice electronically via the Internet. Without concluding the bastant, it does not seem that these attempts are a quick solution to the low turnout. I welcome the evaluation with great interest. Although there are weaknesses in both attempts, it cannot be that our democratic system is rocked and unchangeable. If democracy is to survive over time, it must change and adapt to the world as it is at all times. Despite the fact that these two attempts do not seem to be the only answer to low turnouts, it is still interesting to learn from them. One interesting experience from my own municipality of residence, Bodø, which was the test municipality for e-election, was the large proportion of pre-voting there. About 40 pst. in fact, the voters chose to vote in advance and two thirds of them were submitted electronically. Despite that, there was not very high turnout. However, it progressed cautiously, but the result was only 65.9 pst. met in Bodø. So it seems that the new scheme was preferred by those who would in any case vote in the election. Maybe a few voted in advance more than they would otherwise have done. It may not have been the case in the other municipalities that tried e-choices, but the final analysis will be interesting to determine whether e-choices are a useful renewal of democracy. Then several representatives in Stortinget have been concerned about security. It's a challenge we have to solve if we're to keep this experimental system. Similarly, there are probably many interesting findings and results of the voting trials for the 16-year-olds. Personally, I don't have any fundamental counter-conceptions about such an arrangement, but I record that there are many people who have strong counter-conceptions, even among the 16- and 17-year-olds themselves. I agree with the Council of State that we should listen to them. I am pleased to hear the result of the evaluation that is being carried out. The point is, however, that the electoral system we have must have legitimacy among the voters, both in terms of electoral participation and in terms of the confidence of the voters in the correct implementation of the elections. I hope the Council of State is right when she says that it seems that the trend in turn has turned to a positive trend. I still think we agree that a resolution of 64 pst. is too low in relation to what we want. I am therefore pleased with the focus of the Council of State on universal organisation of electoral acts. The Local Democratic Commission pointed to the issue of representativeness in political bodies as an instrument for ensuring legitimacy and increased electoral participation, including: by strengthening women and other under-represented groups in the electoral lists. This action, together with many other measures that have been raised in this debate, will provide a basis for further involvement and debate. I hope that the Council of State will continue to have a forward-looking relationship with the challenge, even if it is limited to what the Minister of State can solve from his office in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1367	The fine thing about these debates is that it provides the basis, as the representative Tetzschner said, for a reflective discussion. I did some reflections when he started his article. I almost got the feeling that this was a debate we might not have, because the voters have the right to sit at home as well. And they have -- that's perfectly obvious. But democracy is the only form of governance that has in itself the ability to abolish itself democratically. I don't think we'd like to sit and look at that. So if there's too few people participating, we should do something about it. For this house's task can never be just to sum up everyone's wishes and then give people what they want. That's not how democracy can work in today's situation, even on our green meadow up here. Democracy rests on more pillars than doing what the majority wants. It is also on the arrow that due account is to be taken of the minority, i.e. a balance of different – often contradictory – considerations. It brings me to a topic that more people have been involved in, but which I will go a little deeper into, namely the importance of the social debate for electoral participation and engagement. Governments warned against the personification; she wanted a debate on matters. It's a timely observation. I want to say that we have two main trends in the social debate, which have evolved over a certain period of time, and which help to clear the distinctions between the parties, as studies also show that people perceive it. One trend is that we all promise to take good care of our electors from cradle to edge of the grave. Now the tomb has been abolished, so from there you have to basically help yourself. The new thing is, the state has to pay. Thus, the debate becomes more a debate on the road to the goal than on the objective. The debate on public sector responsibilities and size, which is an important historical dividing line between the right and the left of the axis, has been erased. The second trend is what I would call the individualisation of the shortcomings of our welfare society. Media – to the extent that people themselves – will always be able to find examples of the elderly person who does not get the sick home place that he or she should have had as quickly as possible, or an operation that has been subjected, despite the political promise that this area should be raised and prioritised, or a swimming pool filled with gravel instead of water. Such shortcomings also belong in the social debate, I don't mean anything else, but especially we politicians should perhaps assume a responsibility for getting the broader picture, the dilemmas, the conflicting considerations that need to be weighed out. There I think we all have a lot to go on. In short, developing the complexity of the modern welfare society, all the dilemmas we have to weigh out, in areas by region. If we give people the impression that there is a quick fix, even on the most complex relationship, we will have to meet disappointed voters. That's not how we said it, as soon as they think we've promised it. So we're helping people get the sense that politics doesn't work, and then there's little sense in using the vote. The Council of State indicated that consideration should be given to whether there can be some common factors between municipalities with high and low turnouts. It's going to be interesting to see if you can find such common factors, and also to see if the municipalities that are between these extremes can have something to learn from it. But we know that one thing is a safe way to get the commitment up, and there are issues that engage, either nationally or locally. We can do a lot, and we're going to do a lot -- I don't think we should let go of all the many different things that have both been tried and should be tried again -- but the most important thing is to contribute to a debate on the political issues, on the political content, and not so much on how we make up each other, positive or negative, in the political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1388	Thank you very much for a good debate. I want to comment on some of the things that have been going on, and let me start with Michael Tetzschner's points. He said the voters are headquartered, and referred to the Constitution. I agree with the heart. At the same time, it is important for the House of Commons to discuss how to get the House of Lords to participate and discuss. I think the answers from Michael Tetzschner are, in a way, the destructive way – to allow ironing, to reintroduce access to it. I disagree. I believe that the electoral system we have now, where you are cumulating, is the right way to go, but I fully agree that how voters can influence the composition of a local government is an important debate. I also believe that the system of direct elections to the rapporteur is a debate which is not necessarily too good. It is important to have a continuous discussion on how to make it easier for voters to participate and to influence the composition of the local government. So I'm concerned about the issues. I believe that what makes first-time voters not going to the polls is partly the absence of youth issues in the election campaign. It's not always that the youth stuff is going through. They're going to have little space. It's a challenge for us, but also for the media, to try to put things up higher on the agenda. I think the representative Håkon Haugli had some good points. He was talking about cultural and socio-economic distance. Yes, I agree, but I don't think all of the 40 percent – or now 35 percent – feel that way. I think it's the one in ten who never goes and votes, who may experience such a distance. Then we're talking about average numbers. My thesis is that the others can be mobilized, and that's a thesis I absolutely don't want to let go of, at least not until it's proven by research. That's when I get into this with civil liability versus civility. I think more and more people are on that part of the scale where they need to be mobilised and understand why in the world they're going to participate, or it seems important to be mobilised through things. That's a challenge that's wider than voting in itself, but that was the starting point for me to raise this debate. Thank you so much for participating!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1400	Thank you to the interpellant and participants in the debate for a good debate. It is right, as has been said from the Chair, that it is this kind of debate that can lead as a conversation, and that can lead to some reflections that we have a common responsibility to fend for our local democracy and our democracy, in general. Participation is a pillar of democracy, the right to participate. Of course, it's also a right not to exercise the right to voice – but if too many people use that right, a bulging democracy, our People's Rule in the long term. I think the most important thing we can do is to have a living political change of words – to engage voters by putting political issues on the agenda that apply to the individual, and that makes the individual feel that it makes sense to use their right to voice. Maybe then you can use the appeal here: one does it because one feels it's meaningful, and that it makes a difference. The example that came from the pulpit today shows that it makes a difference when a voice can flip over a multiple in one direction or another. It is quite clear that the reference to the representative Trond Helleland to giving room for action in the municipalities is a contribution to that debate, because if the voters feel discouraged – if one sees that the political elected representatives in the municipality are disqualified – it will also not be committed to voice. It will also erase who is responsible for the decisions that are made, and one can get the impression that it doesn't matter who controls locally and how they control. So it's an important moment to bring on – to involve people. It has also been shown through studies that have been carried out in the past, including: one from 2001, where a distinction was made between different axes — the political, the liberal and a social axis. The study showed that those who felt participation, as in municipalities with high social capital, also had the highest turnout — unlike in the municipalities where there was more focus on the individual. To include, to make sure that people have opportunities and availability, and not least that we all take responsibility both locally and centrally for a living change of words that shows the differences, and that the alternatives are clear, I believe are fundamental, as well as anything else of good suggestions that has emerged here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1409	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1423	It is a unanimous committee that advises the Storting to join the reform of the composition of the Governing Board, allowances and voting rights of the IMF. I'll be careful with a few brief considerations. Firstly, I think it is important to say, as is also apparent in the vote, that reform of international organisations with many Member States is very demanding. Despite this, the IMF regime has reached an agreement on this reform. The Committee on Budgets is in favour of this. As we write, Norway has called for reforms within the IMF and supports the reform will and changes proposed. Secondly, it will often be that, in order to achieve a reform that can be ratified, and to achieve integration in the Member States, different considerations need to be balanced towards a compromise. In this reform, the balance between the country’s GDP and the set quota formula has been discussed. The final result is a compromise Norway should support, although not all is a hundred percent in line with the primary position of our constituency, which is the Nordic-Baltic. The government has previously written that it is in favour of developing countries and emerging economies having a stronger role in the IMF and greater quota and voting weight, that it is important that the organisation has a governance system that ensures global relevance and legitimacy and that the compromise is now agreed on contributes to this. It is an assessment to which the Committee has agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1432	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 540]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1450	It is a concern in Europe and the world. Many countries have wasted their lives on debt and built up liabilities that investors and markets don't think they can bear. This will affect Norway, unless growth and prosperity are restored in Europe and the United States. Norway is not there. Our economy is bottom-solid, we have a book that the Minister of Finance can rightly and proudly travel around Europe and tell us about. Unemployment is low, and much may seem to be on the care. Norway has actually been through a fantastic journey since the oil age began to catch up with us. Our commodity wealth has served us well in an era of opportunities for ever cheaper imports of finished products from emerging developing countries. Future scenarios did not predict that commodities would account for wealth growth 20–30 years ago. I believe it is important to state that Norway is a good country to live in, where we can all feel some pride in what we have achieved – that is the challenges ahead I want to focus on. Are we preparing for the challenges? Norway has a small and open economy. There is little we can do with the challenges of our trading partners, but they will affect us. That's why I want to focus on the internal challenges our seemingly unconcerned situation gives reason to focus on. Our competitiveness with the rest of the world has been a topic in many channels lately. Export-oriented business is seriously concerned. The national budget shows that labour costs in industry in Norway in 2010 were over 150pst. the level of our trading partners. We've seen an explosive increase from about 120 pst. since 2005 and the government forecast that the increase will continue in 2011 and 2012. This is in isolation positive. We all work to increase our well-being and payment. However, the budget also shows that Norway's productivity growth has fallen sharply. Between 2000 and 2005, we had faster productivity growth than our trading partners. A stronger development in compensation of employees within us than our trading partners could thus be defended with higher productivity. In the period 2006–2010, this picture changed dramatically. The productivity growth is now low and lower than that of our trading partners. Productivity is partly cyclical, but as strongly as we have seen, and the fact that it is now lower than that of our trading partners should more than worry a finance minister. The alarm clocks should ring loudly. Increased compensation of employees and lower productivity growth than in our trading partners over a few years is to be considered a double poison pill for export-oriented and competitive jobs and businesses. We can do little about the development of our trading partners, but we can address our own challenges. I do not see any sign that policy priorities reflect the dimension of the challenge. But I notice that the periodical breakdown of the data presented by the government itself, which shows a rather dramaticly distorted competitive situation for the competitive sector, coincides with the periods of two different governments in Norway. There is, therefore, a policy behind it! This point is very well illustrated by a quotation from the national budget on page 107. There the government says: ‘An hour’ — in industry: my supplement — ‘in 2005 an industry value creation of about a quarter higher than in 2000. The productivity growth was significantly higher than that of our trading partners during this period. A high level of productivity growth on a broad basis, without reduced employment, indicates that the reforms over the 1990s provided the basis for successful business conversion and renewal.’ Increased productivity is absolutely central. This is particularly true in a country such as Norway. While Europe is discussing well-being schemes and wage cuts, the debate in Norway continues on the potential for wage increases. Once again, you can say that we have succeeded. Increased wages provide greater well-being, and that is the objective, but continuing special cost development is not sustainable without a strange and high productivity growth. We are at risk of a sharp decline in the competitive sector. I believe the Council of State and I agree that we do not want a country where oil activity and the public sector are the only two legs we have to stand on. If we are to maintain a competitive sector that is not controlled by oil activity and price in Norway, we need a far stronger focus on what is needed to develop it in Norway. In this picture, the challenge also lies with a two-part Norway. Without a completely different focus on competitiveness and productivity, we will see large and increasing regional differences in Norway, depending on the strength of the ring-fence of the local oil industry. Both the Council of State and I come from a state where the ringing effects of the oil industry are small and «the writing on the wall» is easy to observe. There's a lot of politics in this. How can we increase our national productivity growth? We already have an economy with a high level of professional participation for both men and women. Simple resources have already been used. We have spent many years focusing on education, skills and research. It has to continue, but the challenge is perhaps as much to get more back for the effort as just to cash in more money. Infrastructure investment is central. Also, without rational and time-consuming infrastructure throughout the country, there will be no development throughout the country. Nor is this an unknown debate for the Council of State. The same applies to tax levels and growth-promoting tax havens. Everything is absolutely central to ensuring competitiveness and the development of high productivity. These are ongoing debates in Norway, and here I will be able to conclude that the NHO documented a few years ago that under the Bondevik II government, nearly nine out of ten new oil crowns were used for these three priority productivity-focused areas. The red-green government used only one and a half of every ten new oil crowns. When one boasts of having historically high stakes in these areas, it says more about the oil money flow and the increased room for action this government has received than about its ability to prioritize. There has been a marked shift in the Norwegian labour market following the financial crisis in 2008. In the years before 2008, growth in both total employment and private job creation was strong. In the years leading up to the financial crisis, Norway tasted what was happening in an economy where the capacity limit was reached — increasing money use in several areas led to a sharp rise in costs, and we were no longer left for increased resource use. Since 2008, the private sector has lost 57 000 annual works, while the public sector has increased by 43 000. Crisis or not, such a development will not be sustainable over time — it distorts the balance. We've been good in Norway for a long time. We have continuously converted the Norwegian economy. Low value creation workplaces have disappeared and have been replaced by jobs with higher value creation capacity that can support Norwegian welfare levels. However, the labour force is now moving from private to the public sector. In that case, it will become more important to follow productivity growth in the public sector. Under Bondevik II, work on monitoring productivity in the public sector was started. Why has this stopped? On budgetary questions from the Right, the Council of State answers: «For the public sector, on the other hand, value added is calculated from the cost side, i.e. on the basis of the use of labour and assets. Total public sector productivity figures based on gross value added per hour worked therefore have a limited information value.» Public employment and value creation will become more important. The welfare tasks are growing and the sector needs to be followed in the same way as the private sector. The national budget also states the importance of the structural policies that have shifted jobs to more productive jobs. I wonder if this is the reason for the total absence of innovation, conversion and new development in the public sector under the red-green government. I hope the Council of State will comment on that. What will the Council of State do to avoid a two-part Norway and to allow local communities and regions dependent on competitive business other than the oil industry to continue to develop? Will he take the initiative to measure the growth of productivity in the public sector — it deserves it — and will he take the initiative to re-establish increased national productivity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1492	The representative of Gundersen points to important challenges for the Norwegian economy. We all know that in the years to come, we are facing significant needs for change in the mainland economy. We also know that there is a great need for health and care services as a result of ageing in the population. We know that future welfare in Norway depends on a well-functioning and productive mainland economy. We need a competitive business and a strong and efficient public sector. We still need an economy that gives us low unemployment and high professional participation. It's also important that we enjoy what we get, but at the same time we're humble, because we're dependent on the world around us, and we depend on the international economy to do well. What we see in, among other things: European economy, tells us what kind of consequences it can have if we do not ensure that government finances are sustainable over time. We also see how important it is to trust that the political system has the ability both to make and to implement good and often difficult decisions. There are several reasons why the Norwegian economy is doing well. One is the growth of emerging economies, which has given rise to prices for key goods exported by Norway. We see that it can turn around if the growth of the world economy gets lower. As a small country, we are dependent on trade with the rest of the world, and we know that a setback outside will affect us. In the last decade, as the representative of Gundersen points out, wage growth has been much higher in Norway than in our trading partners. Norwegian industrial wages are now well above the salaries of competitors in other European countries. This has been possible because we have had a very positive and good trading relationship for Norwegian economy and Norwegian exports. At the same time, we have seen – and the representative Gundersen also points to an important point – that the strong wage growth, for example. in the oil industry, likely to have infected wages in mainland farms and the more traditional non-competitive business. These are matters that are important, and that we need to have a lot of attention around the time that comes. We also see clearly that the high level of wages makes Norwegian companies vulnerable to a fall in demand and prices or to a strengthening of the krona. That is why it is important that we continue the cooperation on income policy. It is therefore important that the consideration of competitive industries is taken into account in wage-earnings, and the established forward-facing model is one of the main instruments in this respect. What we also see of what is happening in the international economy is that the wage growth of the trading partners is going to be low for a long time in the future. Clear limits on wage growth will be set here in Norway if competitiveness is not to deteriorate further. At the meeting of the contact committee we had on 7 October, the Prime Minister invited us to make next year's salary settlement a solidarity settlement. He pointed out that a strong crown makes maintaining competitiveness considerably more difficult, and that consideration for jobs and competitiveness must be at the heart of wage making until the next spring. Both workers and employers must contribute and show solidarity with those who are now at risk of losing their jobs as a result of the crisis in Europe. The economic policy framework is important for the stability of the Norwegian economy — the rule of action, how we set up the pension fund scheme, monetary policy, regulation and supervisory arrangements in the financial market are important cornerstones as well as income policy cooperation. We must build on that in the future. The budget presented on 6 October, which we are going to discuss here in a week, is well adapted to the economic situation. We follow the rule of action, and we are predictable in the use of oil revenues. At times of alarm, predictability is even more important than in the past. It contributes to the stability of the interest rate and currency markets and the economy as a whole. It is very important for the competitive sector. The labour force is our most important resource. We have low unemployment and a high level of professional activity. We need to develop the labour force further, so that we also have a resilient, well-qualified and productive workforce in the future. At the same time, we also see the importance of social protection for competitiveness, productivity and productive capacity in the Norwegian economy. The pension reform is important — what we do in the context of the pension reform — to ensure that people are more at work and to ensure that we benefit even more from the good labour force, including: has passed 60 years. We must invest in the future labour force. From kindergarten to basic and higher education, priority must be given. We need to make sure that young people can complete high school. We need to have a stronger searchlight in schools and professional experience as part of this. Research and development is another important field for promoting innovation and productivity. That's why we have to keep up the high level of research we have. So we're in the top class when you look at research per capita in Norway compared to other countries. Industry-relevant R & D needs to be supported through a number of schemes. I agree with the representative, Gundersen, that it is also important that, to put it that way, we get better and more forward-looking research results out of the billions we spend on research years. We need to keep up the high level of investment in transport and infrastructure, not only on roads and rail, but also on the electronic infrastructure and what makes it easier to operate in all parts of the country. We know that productivity and employment often fluctuate with economic cycles. After the recession in the financial crisis, we have now seen a five-quarter increase in employment, both in the economy as a whole and in the private sector. As a direct result of the financial crisis, employment fell by about 72 000 people. Now we've reclaimed large parts of this, after the bottom line was reached in the first quarter of 2010. Looking at the last 20 years, we have had a growth in the value creation of mainland Norway that has been higher than the growth of America, and clearly above the growth of the euro area and of our Nordic neighbours. Much of this growth can be explained by a good development in productivity. It is also right, as the representative Gundersen said, that we have had a good productivity development in Norway. It has been flattened since 2006, but there is no Norwegian phenomenon. We also see that there has been a significant flare-up and a decline in productivity internationally, but for example. In 2010, productivity in the industrial sector increased significantly. Economic activity affects productivity, but it is an important task to ensure that productivity is first and foremost. Some of the explanation that we have had a good development in productivity is a high level of education, good adaptability and a good framework for economic policy. Finally, I would like to say that there are many challenges ahead. It is important, as I said at the outset, that we are humble in the situation in Norway, because it is not certain that we should be in that situation. We're going to be affected by what's happening around us, but we have a very good basis for meeting the challenges we're now facing in the international economy, and what's going to turn into the Norwegian economy. It will make demands on us as politicians, it will make demands on the trade movement, on employers and on the business community as a whole. This is a common task to tackle. There is also an important factor behind the policy pursued by the government. This we will also have with us in the future. I would like to thank you for putting this issue on the agenda in this interview. We will have two new opportunities next week to discuss this, in connection with both the Foreign Minister's presentation and the finance debate next Thursday. This isn't the last time we're discussing the topic, and it's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1528	I very much agree with the Minister of Finance that we should not take it for granted that Norway is the best place in the world to live. I used to tell my kids when things weren't fair, that we're all going to be happy that the world might not be fair. We're doing very well in Norway, but we're taking care of it. I can agree with much of what the finance minister said about sustainable government finances, that we have the pension fund in order, that we have the income policy cooperation, and that we have a front-line vocational model. All of this is right and important, but I don't think that's enough. Governments said productivity growth had fallen. It took up something last year – that’s right – but it is still below it for our trading partners. That's the point: a strange wage trend cannot be met in the long term in any other way than that we also have higher productivity growth than our trading partners. What I'm asking for is, where are the grapples the government is going to put in place to meet that ambition? Because it's pretty cool. We have a country with low unemployment, and of course we can talk about income moderation and things like that, but I think it's terribly difficult to talk to the Nordics about the crisis in Norway, and that you have to keep very much back. I think you should also be so realistic that when unemployment is not there – we should all be happy about that – there will also be pressure on wages. So, we're going to live with a higher wage growth in Norway than what you have with your trading partners, and that's what the authorities actually have to set up a policy for. I noticed that the Minister of Finance said we were living by the rule of action. So after 4 percent, we're going to do that. We do not believe that you live by the rule of action regarding the use of the money. We want a much higher priority for both infrastructure, education and research, and also a lot of measures dealing with growth-promoting tax relief. Here, too, tax policy comes into play. It is very important to use it to strengthen Norwegian business, to build Norwegian ownership and to enable Norwegian business to meet the challenge they are actually facing. I also demanded what is done in the public sector. As we shift more and more labour into the public sector, I actually think that the jobs and the public sector themselves deserve the same focus on and follow-up to productivity as they do in the private sector. It has something to do with us also finding out if we are developing the rational jobs in that sector. It's at least as important as on the private side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1539	There are several things you can get hold of, but I have a two-three important points. One is that competitive business is a lack of store, to use that expression. One of the things we saw in the financial crisis was how important it was that it is precisely this insecurity unit in the competitive business that we have a lot of legs to stand on. That's why it's incredibly important, as both Gundersen and I were in the main posts, that we look at this, both on the challenges and the interaction between the screen and the competitive sector, but also on the two parts of what can be called the competitive sector, which is linked to oil industry and the more traditional industry. This is one issue, which is important to bring with it. In the broad picture of industrial policy and the relationship with competitive business, we, as politicians – at least in this Chamber – have taken on some major and important instruments. It's the state budget, it's making sure that we have a robust, good and solid financial industry, and we can do a lot in terms of income making, even if it's the responsibility of the parties. However, many of the external framework conditions around the generation of income are also an important part of the major policy we pursue. This is three important grips. Nor should we forget the small picture, which is about own innovation in enterprises, the local relationship between employer and employee, and about the individual enterprise and the ability and ability of individual enterprises to attract good labour. A relationship that I've been thinking about more and more, and which I see becomes more important and more important, is the local interaction between businesses and industries, so that you can draw the best of each other in order to be able to face stronger international competition. Yes, the public sector is incredibly important. The public sector is a premiscuous provider of education to industry, which manages the future and present workforce. Effectiveness in the public sector alone is also incredibly important. That is why we also need to allocate money to new ICT systems in Nav, the police and other parts of the public sector in order to apply new technologies in order to put greater pressure on what we call efficiency in the public sector. Here the government is in the middle of a very extensive work, which we put great trust in will be able to produce good results in the future. It is basically good music in a finance minister's ears to hear that one should focus the spotlight at least as much on what one gets out of the money, rather than being very concerned about how much money one should spend on all good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1556	It is an important issue that the representative of Gundersen addresses. He has taken it up earlier, too, but given the economic situation that is now in large parts of Europe, it is extremely important to debate. The Minister of Finance, in his speech, gave a very good description of the challenges facing the Norwegian economy, and has been very clear about the importance of keeping order in our own economy, that we do not spend more oil money than the rule of action suggests, and that we are predictable in economic policy. It is our main contribution to the interest rate and currency market, which is essential for the competitive sector. Another area that is particularly important to ensure Norwegian competitiveness in the future is the systematic development of the growth and education sector, not least contributing to education for all, regardless of social and economic backgrounds, so that they can contribute to future value creation in both the private and public sectors. Since 2005, we have been making a lot of efforts towards the education sector. We have expanded the school week in childhood, and have paid great attention to the early efforts and development of skills in basic subjects. We have many measures to tackle high school drop-outs, and we have received a teacher training in which the education is directed towards which stage and which subjects you are going to teach at and in. This is a systematic and long-term effort to ensure that as much training as possible and skills are acquired at some level. However, it does not help with decisions in the UK about non-business and school owners have the same understanding of this, in order to ensure our children and young good adult life, as well as ensuring the competitiveness of industry and the necessary public competences. Around the country, a number of concrete measures are also being taken to improve the interaction between business and school. In my own country, a separate growth commission has been swinging to point out what is important in order to get a good school adapted to the challenges facing the future business and public sector. In these days, measures are being put into practice to improve the quality of the entire 13-year-old school cycle, and this is under county control. The university and higher education sectors are also important contributors to the growth and development of our business. The same is true of the State and regional instruments for research and development. We need to focus more and more on the fact that the education provided, not least to regional colleges, is helping to build up under future competitiveness. This also applies to the research and development carried out there. When I visit companies that are innovative, forward-looking and competitive, it turns out that they are interacting with other actors they create the results. It is therefore essential that we facilitate precisely that type of interaction between enterprises and R & D environments. We may also be able to raise the resources allocated to research in Norwegian business. The representative, Gundersen, says in his statement that the number of employees in the private sector is falling, while the number of employees in the public sector is growing. That's a statement I can't vouch for. Since 2005, the vast majority of new jobs have come into the private sector, but we have had a necessary growth in the public sector in order to take on new health, care, kindergarten and child protection tasks — to name a few sectors. If these don't work, it will also help to weaken our competitiveness. The public sector is not a burden on expenditure. It contributes to the creation of value in our country. The public sector, like the private sector, must constantly be renewed. In industry and other business, we have seen a tearing technological development. Industrial enterprises currently spend far fewer hours producing their products than a few years ago. This is absolutely necessary in order to be competitive in a high-cost country. In the public sector, there has also been a ripple in the way one today uses modern technology. But we need to be able to deploy more investment funds in the public sector, so that we can become even better at using the possibilities offered by the electronic solutions. It is difficult in a day-to-day way when current operational tasks increasingly require more financial resources. However, if the public sector is to contribute to building under our value creation, it needs to be constantly improved, strengthened and renewed. Investment in new technology is therefore necessary. It is a serious economic crisis in Europe that can easily hit us. Sound economic governance is essential for securing Norwegian businesses and people's jobs. At the same time, it is important that we use the unique opportunities we have in this country to continue building up under our competitiveness and well-being by developing the most important resource we have, namely the people who live here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1577	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. The response from the Council of State may not have been so surprising: Norway is going brilliantly, it is a carefree everyday life. It's always going to be harder in the future, but it's not hard now. According to the Council of State, it was low unemployment, high employment and good productivity growth, although it has fallen slightly, and it was sustainable so it kept, just we kept the rule of action. In the old days, competitiveness led to jobs, which in turn led to growth, which in turn led to wealth, and which in turn led to well-being. Completely as simple as that, Norwegian economy is no longer. Norway has the largest income from raw materials, and it is a different economic everyday life. Most people have a solid economy – no one disputes it – and most people get a little better economy every year, as long as it lasts. They're doing it for now – and it could be. But that is not because of Norwegian competitiveness – which we are discussing today – that is not why. It's not because of our unique competence, it's not because of our willingness to work longer days. It's not because we have fewer days off, not because we have shorter holidays, not because we have worse leave arrangements. Nevertheless, we are granting ourselves an ever higher standard of living, while at the same time weakening competitiveness. We do it because we can afford it. And that's exactly what's the big dilemma. When we have raw materials dependence, we have huge revenues. We are getting better and better welfare systems, while more and more people are permanently out of work. Today it is such that it is approx. 20 pst. of the adult population who are out of work for various reasons. Either they are because they are ill and have health benefits – and that is enough – but it is also because they are ill or have other forms of social security. So the council boasts of low leave! Yes, of course you have low leave if you have 20 pst. of the population permanently out of work — there would be only a lot of them! We couldn't have it as well. In Sweden, they have half as many out of work, and they have higher unemployment, but are not close to having as many out of work as we do in Norway. It's worrying. What are we going to do in this country? Will the traditional export industry disappear? Can we imagine that we don't have an export industry at all? The evening post today writes that more and more companies are noticing the financial turmoil, that demand for furniture and wood is falling. Yeah, it's demand-driven. There's nothing we can afford for people to buy furniture from Ekorenes! But we have a fundamental challenge: our wage and cost level. Then you have to have a conversion. The council also stated that conversion is important, we have to do something different than what we did before. That is the government council of the public sector. We're going to have to change because you need people in the care of the elderly. No, we can't live by cutting our hair on each other, but we can't live by caring for each other. It is possible that we can live by caring for each other if we have such large and solid revenues from the oil and gas business – that we have so much money – that we can do it. But I don't think there's any particular future for a nation, if that's how we're going to run. Then we get some kind of Kuwaitization of the economy, and I don't think there's anyone who really wants that. So we might have a luxury problem because we're getting more and more public employees, which we need, but that's actually not where we have value creation. If we want value creation, we need to grow in private businesses. And then we have a very unique starting point. We have a search warrant state. And then we have businesses without financial muscles. So the challenge is, how do we get the state of search to transfer some of this money to private companies, so they can hire more people? That's what's the basic challenge. But what did we do when we got all this money? The first thing we thought about was securing pensions for those who live, and for the future. For a while back, the Council of State said we needed $5,000 billion. kr in order to secure pensions in the future – the return could finance pensions for the future. Is there an offensive way to think about it? Have other countries secured their pensions for the eternal future – on book? No, Norway is alone in the world about it. Might it have been more offensive to think about what we're going to live on – what this debate is about? Can any of this money be brought into private businesses, so that we can be competitive in the future? That must be the goal of the money we have – to transfer something from a crooked state to private business. Then you have to get your pay down. And how do you get your pay down? You get your payroll down by tax havens. Then you take some money from the crooked state and give it to ordinary people. The wage requirements will then be slightly lower. Competitiveness increases, you get to sell your goods, and you can hire more people. That's one way to do it. Then you remove the property tax for both private enterprises and overall, so that it becomes profitable to invest in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1596	The inter-pellant shall be praised for addressing a very important issue. He has also received appropriate commendation from several people here. I perceive that he and the Council of State are very much in agreement with the problem description. But there also ends the consensus in many ways. The Minister of Finance's answers go very much along the lines we know, namely that in Norway the government finances are in order; we have responsible budgets that contribute to an interest rate adapted to the outside world, so that the currency doesn't get too big problems either. But none of this we can influence ourselves. But then the council also says, and he's done that for a while now, that we're dependent on the world around us. He uses the word 'humble' in terms of what is happening. My question is often how deep it stings. Very often the expression is used that the budgets are well adapted to the current situation. Yes, they are. But the question that Gunnar Gundersen is asking is whether the policy we are pursuing is adapted to tomorrow's business, because it is tomorrow's business, tomorrow's earnings, value creation and the basis for the welfare society, which this interpellation is about. The representative, Gundersen, raises some issues that he does not receive a response to. The Minister of Finance spends a lot of time around this with increased costs, it's pay terms, we can't do much about that, although there are, of course, ways of doing it there. However, lower productivity is a major problem in the context of increased costs. When we talk about the development of jobs in the public versus private sector, I also hear the representative Kristoffersen say something about that she didn't really think this could be right. But the Ministry of Finance thinks that's right, and they say that's right. I think the red-greens have to change their script given that there has been a tremendous development of jobs. That's right, overall from 2005. But if we're going to talk about tomorrow's business, we need to see what's happened in the last two to three years. That's the development that we have to take over. I do not think the Minister of Finance will answer this well. I think productivity is important, not least in the public sector. If one can become more efficient, more rational, in the public sector, then the budgets will give room for priorities that can move towards stimulating private jobs, in terms of better business conditions. This is exactly the same effect you would have if the use of oil money had been the way you originally thought that one-third was spent on research and development, one-third on infrastructure investment and one-third on growth-promoting tax relief. All of this would contribute to the better conditions for tomorrow's business. That would ease the investment. The representative, Gundersen, talked a little bit about taxes. I will not spend much time on it either, but there is no doubt that, for example. taxes on wealth are very burdensome for Norwegian businesses. Right at the moment, the extra weight is, because we are in a weak economic downturn – order decline, weaker results, concern of business owners – but the wealth tax is exactly at the same level. In addition, I would like to raise a special issue that has not been mentioned. It's important for business. There is the implementation of EU legislation through the EEA in Norway. It's going incredibly late, and the reason is, of course, that there's disagreement in the government many times, but not always. There is often a strong consensus in Norway about this. Nevertheless, there is a great amount of inertia in the system. I think that if this had gone faster, it would also be very useful for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1617	It is an incredibly important theme that the representative of Gundersen addresses here. I have to say that it's a lot to right a right-wing representative talking about business policy without having the main focus on tax. However, it can simply come about that the Right also reads the evening post occasionally, because there is good evidence that if we look at taxes and social security contributions collected, Norway is very low. There is hardly any country in Europe that has a lower tax level than Norway. As I see it, we are looking forward to having a discussion on industrial policy, without people believing that fiscal and industrial policy are two sides of the same coin. Then I'd like to commend the representative, Gundersen, for seeing his finger on a very important topic of Norwegian industrial policy; that we have an economy that is very strongly dominated by oil activity. I see it especially in the region that I'm from. We have a lot of actors who are in the supplier industry when it's about the oil activity, which is in a real upturn. They have an extremely high need for skilled labour at different levels of the organisation. They'll have to get hold of it. And there is no doubt that price levels are being pushed in such a way that the rest of the economy in the region – and to a large extent in the country – is under intense pressure. I've said it so strongly that the pressure that the very large oil activity in the Norwegian economy now represents can actually lead us to a situation where we have a deindustrialized Norway when the oil age is over. If we can't take any of the technological skills that are currently in the supply industry with regard to the oil sector into another activity before it's too late, that is, before the oil age is over, we have a problem with technology-based industrial development in Norway. The main answer to this is — it concerns the Minister of Knowledge, or most rightly, the Minister of Industry — that there is knowledge at all levels in the organisation that means that we must be able to have a knowledge that is so general that when the age of oil starts to wane, that knowledge can be used on other things. One of the major challenges today is that when we talk about skills jobs, people think about research and people with three doctoral degrees. Competence workplaces are just as much for people with expertise, so upgrading the status of vocational training in Norway is one of the most important things we can do to build a country that can take the technology from today's industry to new industries. The second thing we have to do is create clusters between research institutions and academic institutions and businesses. This means that one is given the competence in a wider environment than exactly those within a particular sector in a particular industry, so that conversion opportunities are increased. I have worked a lot to get to the cluster between universities, colleges and businesses. That's why I'm a little surprised that the Right in its previous budget cut funds just to this kind of cooperation between academic institutions and business. I hope I've said it so many times here in the hall that they don't take them in the budget of the year. I'm excited to see it, because I haven't been able to read it yet. So the importance of innovation in the public sector has been called for. One of the most important things we can do in relation to business development is to have innovation in the public sector, so that good business environment can be developed. We have also been documented in the Evening Post – which has probably also brought with it Right – that Norway is at the top when it comes to having a pleasant business environment. The definition of a pleasant business climate in the Evening Post article is precisely about an efficient public sector, which means that a need to spend less time on tax collection than in other countries, etc. In Norway, we have already achieved good innovation in the public sector, just to make life easier for business. It's a kind of public innovation that it's very important to keep going. And then I just want to end by saying that it's also the public sector that makes it possible for us to have a lot of labour supply in Norway, among other things. know that we have received full child-care coverage. I have probably referred before to one of the women entrepreneurs who was challenged by what was the most important reason why she had become a founder. The answer was, I had kindergarten for my children, so I could be a founder.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1634	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. Competitiveness is our biggest challenge, and we are now in a situation where the political courage, as in the past, and also in Norway today, is characterized by property development and financial positions, must be replaced. The political courage must be replaced by a solid production life perspective — that is, the real economy to be at the centre and where the financial sector is settled around the real economy, not the construction itself. I'm not going to go into research and education, because it's very basic and important areas, and that government representatives have been very much involved in the past. I want to focus on two areas. It is in communication and on a stronger and more versatile private production life with more valuable products. In the field of communication, it is quite obvious that much more needs to be invested – not only in port, rail and road, but also in data communications, by providing us with an offer-driven way of communication – so that it is the offer of it to each home that is governing, not the demand from each home. It would have to mean significant organisational changes. Corresponding to mobile coverage: the emergency towers must be exploitable to the benefit of private companies that are operators in that area, so that they can benefit from that infrastructure. In terms of private business, the big challenge is that today we have so much investment in the oil and gas sector that it's almost a sleep cushion for the rest of society. I'm going to stick to it completely. This means that we don't get to focus on the great future of mainland Norway: creating long value chains of our huge renewable natural resources – processing our natural resources in long value chains with valuable products. One of the sectors that are now, and are going to be, even harder and faster hit in the future, is our woodworking sector. We need a basic transition of the woodworking sector from previous paper investment to higher-value paper products and biochemistry – more high-value paper products and biochemistry! There are unique possibilities here. It is important here, then, that the government gives clear signals that it should be invested. If the signal is given, private and public operators may build up the necessary capacity in that area so that it can be cheaper than otherwise because predictability allows capacity to be built up in all areas of the sector. The three-processing industry has an enormous investment need. It is a sector that currently has four main owners in Norway. All four owners face enormous challenges, and they do not have the financial capacity to do so. There must be an interaction between the public and private sectors, and the task of Storting must be to create the framework conditions. The size has addressed instruments such as environmental technology investment support to realise opportunities for commercialising new technologies. Borregaard is a shining example in this regard. There needs to be a stronger commitment in this area, so that the state is a facilitator for the companies that want to enter the new era. Similarly, the state cannot stand out as a stranger to be on the owner’s side, and the government must necessarily be willing to participate on the owner’s side in woodworking – as one is, for example, in the Kongsberg industry or in other high-tech workshop industries. Here we have to be pragmatic. These instruments need to be discussed. The analysis of the representative of Gundersen was good, but it lacked action. It was very much related to salary levels. This means, at least, that management wages must be kept down, and that companies that pay high wages cannot be unfairly charged an additional employer’s fee, which means that it is more expensive to raise pay levels further in Norway. The company then becomes more modest in going such a way – which is completely wrong in relation to the time we are now entering.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1653	There is a major and important inter-pellant issue: how are we going to ensure the welfare of the future, how are we going to free ourselves more from the oil economy – and not least – how are we going to reverse or curb the development that our cost level is rising and productivity growth is deteriorating? I think we all have a burning desire to ensure a sustainable Norwegian welfare system in the future as well. I think everyone wants Norwegian companies to succeed in an increasingly tough international competition, but the fact is that more and more new countries are reporting on where we have partly been unique or have had large international market shares. If we're to succeed in the future, we have to do things differently. Not least, we must meet the challenges of a policy for the future and not for the past. Unfortunately, the approach of the government and government parties is somewhat too marked by the latter. The policies pursued — and which are not least reflected in the last state budgets — do not give rise to any new signals of a new course or political priorities that show a clear direction into the future. As the Left sees it, it goes in the wrong direction when it comes to crucial areas, such as knowledge, environment and value creation. I would like to point out some important areas: We need to focus on research and higher education. More people have been into it today. For the Left, investing in research and higher education is the most important investment we can make to meet the very future. The government’s response is a decline both in study places and in research. The result is that the total research effort as a share of GDP is falling next year, despite what I hear the Minister of Finance say here today. We need to use the tax system more carefully. For me and the Left, it is a mystery that the government is not using the tax system much more actively to stimulate innovation and environmentally friendly conversion, and I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance on this very point. Here you have great opportunities that are not used. I would like to point out the alternative budget of the Left, which was presented on Friday, where we make a significant and significant tax change, and where the tax system is actively used to meet tomorrow's challenges. We need to take a comprehensive and clear approach to the renewal and conversion of both the public sector, the instrumentation and the Norwegian business community. The government and the Ministry of Finance's approach to the climate communication is illustrative: we do not change in a more environmentally friendly direction, but buy ourselves out. It may be cheaper in the short term, but in the long run it is the wrong strategy – especially in the perspective we are discussing today. In yesterday's Question Time, I challenged the Minister of Industry on what he would do to ensure dynamic growth, to ensure that we facilitate the conditions for growth companies and businesses with potential for growth. Since 2008, there has not only been a decline in employment in the private sector, as the interpellant points out. The number of gas cell holdings and crop holdings has halved over the same period. The Minister of Industry's answer was that the government has given more money to Investinor. In my view and in my view, it is a misguided political strategy. The investor has invested very closely the capital available to them today and has a very narrow and bureaucratic way of using the investment capital. The left is aware that SIVA has asked the government for a new and reinforced incubation effort from 2012, especially because today’s R & D incubator programme expires on 31 December this year. The government's response is no. This is probably an example of a lack of willingness to bet on just interactions between research, business and educational institutions. For the left, it is obvious that more incubation will give more growth businesses in Norway. Companies like Opera Software, ProBio and Point Carbon are examples of companies that are just jumping out of this kind of bet. Instead of focusing unilaterally on Investinor, the Left has a wide range of instruments in its alternative budget to ensure innovation and to have more legs to stand on, among others. a continuation and strengthening of the SIVA incubation programme. It will be to meet the future in a far more offensive way, as the Left sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1685	The best objective of good competitiveness is whether one has competitive businesses and profitable jobs. In fact, we have over 250,000 more jobs now than when the majority government took over in 2005. Two-thirds of these have come in the private sector, despite a global financial crisis. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and the highest employment rate. The distribution of jobs between the public and private sectors is the same as in 2005, with seven out of ten working in the private sector – even after the financial crisis. So it's actually wrong when Right says that the growth in jobs is only due to increases in the public sector. We know that the decline in cyclically exposed industries actually reversed in 2010, and the trend has been increasing since then. Until the second quarter of this year, the private sector has increased employment by 15 000 people. In particular, construction is on the way up, but industry has also shown moderate growth in the last year. Figures for the third quarter of this year account for additional growth in these industries. This is very good, and we are in an incredibly lucky situation in relation to countries around us. It also appears that order in our own economy is the best defense against crises that come from outside, and that in tough times we need safe economic governance, not creative solutions that put Norwegian competitiveness at risk. In the turmoil that we see around us, it is unlikely that we have a budgetary policy that we follow the rule of action, so that we do not get pressure on the dollar rate and interest rates. In addition, it is important that our wages do not rise too much in relation to our neighbouring countries. We rely on selling our goods and services abroad – 80 pst. of our exports go to Europe. For this reason, cooperation in income policy and in the field of primary education is particularly important. Increased globalisation, increased international competition and lower transport costs have resulted in an increasing number of Norwegian businesses being exposed to foreign competition. To meet these challenges, innovation and innovation are one of the most important things we can do, so that we can create jobs for the future. Then we have to bet there we are good, and where Norway has a special advantage. This is why we are investing in energy and the environment, the marine and maritime sectors and in travel. Norway scors high on the World Bank's leagues where it's best to start, own and run businesses – in fact, we've gone up from 8th to 6th place – while Norway is at the top of the world's best country to live in. It makes us unique, and it's also a good starting point for innovation. The budget that we are going to discuss next Thursday underpins innovation and innovation. I will mention Investinor, who has contributed new capital of 1.5 billion. kr, entrepreneurship bet, user-driven innovation and climate – green innovations are one of the most important things to do for the future, right? 167 million. kr is proposed for 2012. In addition, it is important that we participate in international research, among others. in Europe's programme. Norway is now participating in the 7th EU Framework Programme for Research and Technology Development and the EU Framework Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation. It is also very important for us to be able to participate in and influence the work of the EU Framework Programme, called Horizon 2020. Simplifications for business are also important. We have discussed it many times in this Chamber, and it was very good that we decided earlier this year to remove the audit obligations for small companies. Now we're going to do new historical cuts, and we've seen a target that we're going to cut the administrative burdens of business by 10 billion by 2015. kr. Another important competitive advantage that we have here in Norway is that so many women participate in the labour market. We have done this through systematic work for equality. We're lucky to be here in Norway, but it can also be challenges in the future. That's why we always have to work to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1708	I share the view of those who say that the goal of good competitiveness is whether they have competitive businesses and profitable jobs – and we do. Although it may irritate some here in the Chamber, I will repeat what many have said before that most new jobs have actually been created in the private sector. Over 160 000 have come in the private sector, and over 80 000 have come in the public sector. Right should at least be somewhat satisfied that the growth rate in the private sector is much higher than in the public sector. Then there has been a financial crisis, and the companies that marked it first and hardest were of course before the export-right industry. It's well a fact that also Right is written in. It is at the heart of the matter when it relates to the impact of the setback in the international economy. In addition, there is undoubtedly one point, as several have said here, that the distribution of jobs between the public and private sectors is the same today as it was in 2007, i.e. that approximately. 7 out of 10 jobs in the private sector — even after the financial crisis. The decline in cyclical industries reversed in 2010 and, fortunately, the trend has been increasing. All of this underlines that this government has managed Norway well and safely through the financial crisis, and the measures that have come are timely. So I want to agree with the representative Holmelid that we actually have two of the most important ministers for the future of business in the Chamber today. Education, enough competence and order in the economy are alpha and omega for our businesses in the future. But I also want to bring the Minister of Industry to this cabal when we talk about the most important ones for our businesses. Indexes and ratios do not determine the future growth of a country. They tell us what it's like and what it's got to be -- not how it's gonna be in the future. However, it is quite clear that Norway is doing incredibly well on such unions. We came, for example. in the sixth place on the World Bank's choir over where it is best to run the business. At the same time, we are on top when measuring a country's accumulated wealth and happiness, and the United Nations is able to accommodate the world's best country this year after year. All of this shows that we are able to create both values and distribute them in a good way, and we will continue to do so, because it gives us safe people who are willing to invest and who are decisive for Norway's future growth and competitiveness. We do not compete at the lowest possible level of taxes and charges or at low wages. In order to create growth, it is also important to remove unnecessary barriers to business. Although it is good to run a business in Norway today, we must continue to simplify the everyday life of our companies. It was mentioned here that first we took away the audit obligation. It was both important and correct. We've also made it easier to start a limited liability company, and one gets freed of capital when one starts a limited liability company. That's what I think was also important and correct, and we've also changed the rules. It's been easier with Altin, and we've come with Altinn 2, which makes it easier for our businesses. But we're far from the goal. We've seen a 10 billion measure. kr, and there's something stretching after. I really hope we get to the goal, because it is important for this government that companies should spend the least possible time on administrative tasks imposed by law and regulations, and as much time as possible to run and develop the enterprise itself. This strengthens competitiveness. Another thing that strengthens competitiveness is that Norway has a high capacity for conversion. It's very important. Maintaining solid growth and low unemployment are often found in countries or regions that can show a high rate of change and good ability to put new technologies into practice and new ways of organising production. Innovation at all stages is and will be important. Of course, this should apply to both the public and private sectors. Then I also share with the representative Gundersen's view that we need to look closely at how we should use our research resources in the future. It is noted by several that compensation of employees can be a challenge. Yes, respect for the fact that the front subject sees the upper limit, is and will be very important in the future, and moderation when it comes to the lessor's wages are similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1734	I must admit that I had not really intended to speak in this debate, but after listening to various speakers, I miss with a few exceptions comparing Norway with other countries in the world. What's common, if we're going into a competition, is that we have to look at the competitors, and what we can do to get better. Fortunately, some refer to the World Bank’s annual ‘Doing Business’, as among others. looks at competitiveness. Among the countries in the world, Norway is in sixth place. You hit your chest and you think it's very good. But why not look at what we can do to become a number. 1? We're probably that country in the world with the best assumptions for becoming a no. 1 as a result of the financial muscles in Norway. Last week, the Financial Committee met with the World Bank. If you go a little bit deeper into the World Bank lists, you can see that it's not that good in all areas, like, for example. describes why we're not in the fifth place, why we're not in the fourth place, etc. As you can see – and as I expect others to know – these are divided into several chapters. It shows, among other things: that we are in the 60th place on the World Bank's list, because we have very rigid rules with regard to the planning and building law, that there is a long processing time, etc. There we are among the worst, at least among countries we should compare with. Furthermore, we are in 41st place in the case of ‘Starting a Business’ and 48th place in the case of ‘Getting Credit’. You might want to think about those things that actually make us not in the first, second, or third place. Now, hopefully, the Financial Committee will be to Singapore in March, which is actually No. One world. Maybe we can notice what they're doing so well. But I hope that the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance will take a closer look at this and perhaps tell you a little about how to achieve the goal of becoming the best in the world – if the government parties want it, then. You sometimes get the impression that it's not that important. That's the one. The second is that there are several rankings showing Norway’s position in relation to other countries. We do have The Heritage Foundation in the United States, which, in cooperation with The Wall Street Journal, has an annual index of economic freedom. Here Norway no longer reaches 30th place. What do you intend to do with that? You don't want to be a number. 1 or among the 10 best in terms of economic freedom? It could have been interesting to know. Here are comparable countries like Denmark in the eighth place, Canada in the sixth place, and of course Hong Kong and Singapore in the first and second places, respectively. What does the government want to do with that? Then we have the World Economic Forum, which also has measurements of global competitiveness. Norway has a 16th place here, while our neighbouring country is much better. Sweden is in third place, Finland in fourth place and Denmark in eighth place. Of course, the solutions of the Progress Party on how to climb the lists are our tax reliefs, simplification measures and commitment to research and school. But it could be interesting to hear what the government wants to do to climb up the lists – if you want to, then. Furthermore, last week’s Evening Post had an overview of Norway’s worst trade with developing countries. It's a different debate, but we should probably not get on our chests about being the worst to deal with the poorest countries in the world. Furthermore, there are other rankings that apply to disqualification in high school, where we do it very badly. We're in the 26th place of 33 countries in Europe. It is also a tax competition in the world and in Europe. Two years ago, we could say that it wasn't just private companies that flagged abroad to save taxes. State power moved to Brussels to save taxes. It must be a little embarrassing that a state-owned company does it. It could be interesting to hear what you want to do to prevent the flagging out of companies, so that we become a number. 1 in the world on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1755	I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it's been interesting. It was an attempt to raise our eyes a little bit and see how we're going to develop the country forward. To those who were concerned that I haven't talked about tax in particular, I expect to use much of the article next week to talk about it. This does not mean that taxes are not important, especially taxes on wealth. But I think we quite agree here in the Chamber that one of the forces in Norway is actually that we have a good tax system that doesn't create too many biases. So we can always discuss the level a little bit. That's one of the things we've been discussing. I think we've been into a lot of good things. One was inside the outside world, and developing the people of the country is, of course, our capital no. 1st@item: inlistbox After all, it is not accidental that there will be two interpellations that are linked to the same challenge. That's because the right puts education very much in focus. So here's a lot we can agree on. I noticed that Lundtegen said the analysis was good, but the measures were missing. It is because we are simply not in position, but I have tried to suggest some measures. We believe that we should have adhered more to the rule of action than we have been able to do. So we haven't been able to prioritize resources into the things that count. However, what has surprised me a little bit in the debate is that once again we drifted a little bit into hitting each other whole with numbers, and we spend a little bit of time illustrating that we're actually right. What was my underlying main focus in the interpellation was the imbalance we have seen since 2005–06 in the development of labour costs and productivity growth. I think that is a very big challenge – and this is not going to happen at the moment. It'll take time. But it's a misunderstanding that we actually have to take very seriously if we're not to lose a lot of jobs and businesses over time. I would like to remind you that between 2000 and 2005, productivity in Norway increased by 25 pst., and we were higher than our trading partners. Between 2006 and 2010, productivity growth was almost zero, and we are below our trading partners. It's the fundamental challenge that I've wanted to focus on, and I really haven't got an answer to that. I agree very much with the Minister of Finance that the best way to meet the future is to ensure that we have a varied and diverse business life. All possible future scenarios can be played with, but it is actually a healthy and diverse business that builds the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1768	I would also like to thank you for the discussion. It's important – and I've said that before – that we spend some time discussing the big lines. No, we don't have to spend a lot of time on numbers. I think we can quickly agree that if we had managed through the financial crisis in 2008 without a decline in employment in the private sector, we would have done even much better than we did. But the point is that the net decline in employment that we saw from 2008 until the first quarter of 2010, at about 46 000, is now largely recovered in the period after. So I think it is important for the sake of the debate to show that the growth we have seen in public sector employment is linked to two major sectors on which there is a broad political consensus that it should be committed, one is kindergarten and the other is health and care. I want to point to two things. The oil gives us opportunities. It gives us great revenues, it gives us strong freedom of action in government finances, but it has also given us something in addition, which often comes into the background of the discussion. This sector has contributed to a huge technological development in Norwegian industry that not only benefits the oil industry but benefits the entire Norwegian industry. So we're in the leading world class in a number of areas. So it's important that we use the driving force that lies in the technological development of the oil sector, to other sectors of the economy. Therefore, the relationship between oil and oil-related activities and the rest of the competitive sector is so important for many reasons. Then we have to prepare at home for what we can meet out there. Then it's important that we build on what's strong in the Norwegian economy and in Norwegian companies, that we take care of what's going well, and that we use it as a springboard to get better in a wide range of areas. I think it's going to be difficult to compete with Singapore and Hong Kong, it's a little bit more complicated to drift Norway geographically and in other ways, but it's clear that we're going to use international comparisons to extend for something that's better in a number of areas. It's an important exercise. Then we'll be careful, as I said, what's going well. We need to maintain what is going well. I round by referring to former Prime Minister Jan P. Syse, who often said in debates in Stortinget that it is not necessary to repair what is right. It's important to keep it with you, too, but you have to build on what's okay to go on and get hold of what's not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1783	That being the case, it is no. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1799	In recent years, both internationally and in Norway, there has been an increasing focus on how research benefits in society. Although some in the academy have been skeptical of such emphasising utility as a scale of research, I think most people will agree that such discussion is both important and necessary, and quite useful. There's several reasons for that. First, it is that the value of new knowledge comes first and foremost when and when it is applied. Such use can take place in many ways, both socially and economically, as well as economically relevant. It is by focusing on different types of returns that we can determine whether society's investment in research and new knowledge is really profitable in a broad sense and whether we succeed in our research strategies. Secondly, this field also needs to be considered in other areas where the use of resources is necessary. Thus, good results of research efforts are the best argument for continuing to strengthen the sector. Let me stress in this context that we in the Right do not want any unified measurement of results based on economic criteria. Not everything can be accurately measured, and in many cases the value of new knowledge is difficult to perceive before a long time. It is said that in some of the most valuable basic research that has been carried out in recent decades, it has in some cases taken as much as 50 years before it has been possible to apply the knowledge that has been developed. This makes it difficult to define both short-term bet measures and to expect the results to materialise and be measurable within a few years. This has been the basis for our criticism of government's eagerness to set political goals and increasingly earmark the money to achieve these goals. That is also why in the last few years, the right has given priority to strengthening funds for free research and increasing basic appropriations for universities and higher education in our alternative budgets. And we are pleased that the government has come after in terms of strengthening the free resources. With regard to the free resources in the university and higher education sectors, the Council's own action space committee has categorically established that they have shrunk to only 5 pst. of the growth of the budgets under the red-green government, compared to nearly 30 pst. of the growth under the Bondevik II Government. So there's still a lot to do here. Another body set up by the State Council, known as the Fagerberg Committee, delivered its report before the summer entitled ‘A more open research system’. The committee would look into the benefits of the research and the consistency between the objectives and results of the public research effort. The Fagerberg Committee uses little space to talk about publicly funded research in industry and also cooperation between the academia and businesses, and perhaps it is symptomatic that the first edition of the government suggests that the Research Barometer, which is one of the measures proposed by the Fagerberg Committee, contains only two pages of a total of almost 100 with reference to the results of the research. However, the Fagerberg Committee points to important issues and asks critical questions. For example, a small quotation that is relevant to this interpellation may be: be as follows: ‘The use of the public research system by industry, measured by the proportion of R & D expenditure covered in terms of income from business and measured by the cooperation of innovative enterprises, gives rise to questions about the links between business and the public research system in Norway. In the view of the sample, there is a need for action leading to stronger links between the public research system and business.» [[...]] This view is supported by a comparison with other countries, as shown in the year’s edition of the ‘Norwegian Research and Innovation System, Statistics and Indicators’, published by the Research Council. This shows that the university and higher education sectors are large in Norway compared with other countries, the largest in the Nordic region and almost twice the OECD average. At the same time, the share of financing from industry is at least in the Nordic region, and the share has fallen in recent years. In brackets, it is also noted that the Norwegian university and higher education sectors have the lowest proportion of financing from abroad by the Nordic countries, which is also worrying. So, in sum, our university and higher education sectors seem to be high in research and closed in the sense that little money comes from sources beyond the state. So, according to the Fagerberg committee, there's a need to do something about this. Unfortunately, the sample does not come with proposals for action. The more important it becomes to hear what action the Council of State might intend to take. It is also interesting to hear what measures the Council of State will consider to increase the results of Norwegian research in the public research system, through commercialisation, product development and the establishment of enterprises based on research results. It is one of the objectives of the current Research Communication that Norway should at least reach the level of comparable countries in terms of commercialisation. The right to debate here in Stortinget has a proposal for a representative with different measures to strengthen the work of commercialisation. None of our proposals have so far received the support of the government parties. If the Council of State still considers it necessary to take action, it will be interesting to hear her proposals for action when, in a few weeks' time, we are going to debate the Right proposal here in the Chamber. Finally, it is relevant to focus on the industry’s share of the total Norwegian research effort. The government has chosen to maintain the target of 3 pst. of GDP for research, but has dropped to a fixed period when the target is to be achieved. The 2005 Soria Moria Declaration stated that the target was to be achieved in 2010. That's not how it went, to say it very carefully. But the goal is there, and I expect the Council of State to have some thoughts about how it can be achieved. Now it's the private part of the research that's the challenge, i.e. research funded by companies and directed by business. In round numbers this represents approx. 0.7 pst. GDP today, i.e. a long distance from the target of 2 p.p., which is to be the industrial share of the 3 per cent. An important step was taken to speed up business research when the Bondevik II government introduced the tax FUNN scheme in 2002. The system is successful and has given results, and the Right wants to expand and strengthen it, as we have also regularly suggested. Unfortunately, the government has so far not listened to the Right proposal. Of course, there may be other measures that stimulate increased research efforts in business than tax incentives, but in which case? And what will the government do when research is to be raised to almost three times as much as today, as well as keeping pace with GDP growth? So I'm still talking about business research. When setting an ambitious target, there must be a fairly realistic path to the target. My honest opinion is that the government doesn't have the "shine in the sea", as it is called, to achieve this goal no matter how long it sits. But I'm more than happy to be convinced by the Council of State when she's about to have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1832	Of course, I am pleased that the representative of Warloe is concerned with future knowledge-based value creation in Norway, and it was with interest that I listened to his comments. This is something that both I and the government are also concerned about. Today, Norway has a competitive business with significant adaptability. We have high GDP and good growth, high export surpluses and low unemployment. Despite a high level of costs and an open economy, Norwegian business has been successful so far. It is important that we compare ourselves with other countries in order to find out where we are doing well, and in what areas we have challenges. At the same time, it is essential to have a good understanding of what indicators measure and not measure, and on which premises they are based. Indicators must therefore always be understood in their specific context and one must be able to question the representativeness of the underlying models. Now Warloe's post moved away from the initial interpellation, namely Norway's score on the European Innovation Scoreboard, but there's actually a challenge about it in the interpellation, so I want to deal with it too. There is reason to ask – just as Warloe did in precise measurements – whether Innovation Union Scoreboard provides a good basis for assessing the Norwegian context, and I refer to the 2011 Research Barometer. The statistical central agency questions the relevance and usefulness of just Innovation Union Scoreboard, and the OECD states that Scoreboard does not capture all factors affecting the innovation capacity of Norway. Furthermore, the OECD points out that key factors affecting innovation capacity are not captured in this type of measurement. And there we come to a little bit of the core of the matter, which Warloe also challenges me and the government, namely our relationship to gross domestic product and how we measure different kinds of effort. It is a well-known case that Norwegian industry is researching slightly less in terms of GDP than in other Nordic countries. It is also a well-known case that it is mainly due to high GDP and industrial structure in Norway. In Norway, commodity-based enterprises are often very knowledge-intensive. This competence is built in ways other than by direct investment in research. Knowledge is obtained from suppliers, from demanding customers, through recruitment of people with research skills, etc. A knowledge-based society based on knowledge-intensive, commodity-based industries with a relatively low level of patenting is thus poorly influenced by the usual international indicators. Even research-intensive enterprises such as Statoil are falling poorly, because the petroleum industry is defined as low-tech. Indicators also capture to a lesser extent the effects of public sector innovation. It is also worth mentioning that the Nordic countries, to which it is compared, are among the most prominent among OECD countries in terms of research and innovation intensity, and they also have a somewhat different industrial structure than Norway. But of course, we're going to go after everything that's better than what we're doing. Having said that, I agree with the representative of Warloe that it is necessary to work systematically with knowledge-based value creation in business and to strengthen the knowledge transfer and interaction between higher education institutions, research institutes and businesses. Therefore, it is gratifying that we can record a strong increase in the number of business ideas received and new enterprises at universities and colleges. The government has taken a number of measures to stimulate more interaction between academia and business. A part of this is the arrangement of the boards of universities and colleges, which shall have a broad membership, with external members of the board. Some people also have external directors – those who have employed the principal. This helps to strengthen cooperation between academia and industry. Furthermore, in recent years a number of mechanisms have been put in place to strengthen cooperation between universities and businesses, research in industry and the commercialisation of research results. In particular, the scheme of the Centres for Research-driven Innovation and Research Centres for Environmental Energy, the Norwegian Centres of Expertise, the Närings-Ph.d. Facility, the Regional R & D and Innovation Facility, VRI, and the regional research fund scheme can be mentioned. User-driven research, where enterprises are project managers of the research projects, has been strengthened. Here, the expected impact of the projects on the company’s own R & D activity is a criterion for allocation. The system and appropriations for the commercialisation of research results from universities, colleges, institutes and health enterprises have also been strengthened in recent years through the FORNY 2020 programme. Norway also has a well-developed institute sector which contributes significantly to the development of business-related knowledge and research results. In the 2012 government budget, the government has proposed earmarking 26 million. to actions aimed at increasing the participation of research institutes in the EU Framework Programme. The funds shall also contribute to strengthening cooperation between the institutions and the business community. The target here is both increased participation from enterprises in the EU Framework Programme and increased research intensity in business. With regard to the last question by Mr Warloe, about increased research efforts in industry, I would point out that public R & D aid to enterprises in the business world has been significantly strengthened over the last ten years, and it is now at a relatively high level compared to other countries. The support of the Research Council to industry has increased by more than 300 million. kr for the period 2006-2010. In 2010, it was approximately 2.3 billion. kr channelled as public support to business R & D through the Research Council and the SkattenFUNN, which the representative was also involved in. It was about 10 pst. of the public support for R & D. The representative of Warloe rightly points to important issues of future value creation in Norway. However, I believe that traditional indicators can be used to capture, to a small extent, the characteristics of the Norwegian society that are important to our innovative capacity, such as: the many agreements and meeting places between the country, the trade unions and the business community. We also have evidence to say that the framework conditions for R & D and innovation in Norway are largely good, and that we have a good mix of tools for research in industry. But then we probably agree that it should and can be researched more from the business side. That is the big challenge, and the government is concerned with the important challenges that the representative of Warloe points to. That is why we have also taken action. We will present a new research report in 2013. Although the final arrangements and arrangements for this Communication have not yet been clarified, the Communication will address the challenges and opportunities associated with interactions, learning and forms of cooperation between higher education, research and innovation — the so-called knowledge triangle. The role of the Institute sector will also be central to the future Research Communication. So I think we agree on the analysis, that it's a bit of a way to go before business in Norway when the goals we've set – 2 of the 3 pst. to go from GDP to research. But I think we can also agree that there are many ways to measure it, and a great variety of instruments and incentives that we should give both through universities and colleges and through research institutes. In order to achieve a better, clearer and more open cooperation between academic institutions and business, there is no doubt about it, and we have put in place a number of mechanisms to achieve it. I trust that our higher education institutions will take up the challenge and will also be involved in developing good meeting places, good channels of communication and good information from business to academic environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1864	I thank you for your answer. It's probably true that in my post I didn't repeat all of them, let's say, a little depressing statistics or the rankings that were mentioned in the interpellation. I feel enough, as opposed to the Council of State, that it will be a little difficult to claim credibility that Norway is so special that what we are doing is not captured by a ranking like the European Innovation Scoreboard, and that, as far as I remember, consists of at least 20, if not 25, different indicators that are measured fairly precisely, and which then contribute to providing the basis for the ranking achieved. So there's a pattern here. If it were only on this indicator that Norway came out significantly worse than the other Nordic countries, to which we can at least largely compare, one might say that there must be something here that is not caught. But that's not it. If we compare ourselves to Sweden – and I know that Norway and Sweden have different nutrient structures in some important areas, I am aware of it, but still a large part of the business community, and the other countries, organized in a way that makes it relatively easy to compare – it is therefore that Sweden’s research effort is 3.7 pst. GDP. Swedish business, as opposed to Norwegian business, has become more competitive in recent years. There has been an increase in productivity, and more efforts have been made on research and development to work out of the crisis. The crisis, as is well known, hit Swedish business significantly more strongly than Norwegian business. So Sweden uses 3.7 pst. of GDP in research. The goal is 4 pst, which is higher than the Norwegian one. The Swedish industry uses approx. four times as much measured in relation to GDP as in Norway. So here Sweden is significantly ahead of us both in terms of goals, and in terms of actual bet. And we'll find Sweden again at the top of the European Innovation Scoreboard. So it has to be a certain context. I think, unfortunately, that having external board members into the boards of Norwegian universities does not necessarily in itself contribute to so much more cooperation with the business community. It is a positive instrument, but cooperation, at least in terms of industry's share of the funding of universities and colleges, has unfortunately declined in recent years and has not increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1877	There were so good paces in the article to Warloe in the first round that I almost got a little disappointed when he now fell back to everything to measure, because he said very wise words that not everything can be measured accurately. I have also understood that, like me, he is somewhat disappointed that the Fagerberg Committee did not come up with concrete measures on how we can look at the benefits of research. I also believe he and I agree that research can be such that it can be measured a benefit of it, but that there must also be some effort on what we call free project support, on which the government of the future state budget wants to invest quite significantly. There I have the feeling that we have Right with us. Then the comparisons come. I can, of course, hit the table with another comparison, which has come from Richard Florida and is called The World's Leading Nations for Innovation and Technology, and Norway comes out quite well on many of these technology measurements. I think we can find different measurements depending on what we want to hit the table with. So let's maybe get past this by saying that there are measurements we're going to use to really measure the research effort. Of course, we need something to reach out to, but I hope that Warloe is part of the grip I did in the previous 2009 research report, which is also to look at the benefits we have of research, and not just measure what we put into research resources. In recognizing that measurements can tell us so often, we have to be concerned about several things at once. I didn't say having external representatives in the boards is alpha and omega, but it's an important tool. It's also motivating our universities and colleges to have a more open relationship with society around them, for example. by means of advice for cooperation with the labour market, by means of an agreement, such as: in the form of a social contract, between working and social life in order to obtain input into their own educational and research activities on what the labour market actually needs, and vice versa: what can the institutions contribute to in relation to working life. I think all of this is very important. It's long-term processes we're talking about, and that's long-term thinking we have to have in this. So what we can contribute from the political point of view is to stimulate transparency, stimulate cooperation, and facilitate good systems both for commercialising research results and for, perhaps even more so, cooperation, such as: The degree of nutrition doctor is a good example of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1890	Thus, the scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is up. The size now takes a break in the handling of case No. Eight. The meeting will be set again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 15,59. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1904	The decision continues to deal with case No. 8 on Agenda No 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1907	I want to immediately be clear that the sign and the Workers' Party share interpellant's commitment to research and knowledge-based value creation in Norway. To put it this way: when the EU’s research strategy is based, not on cheap raw materials or cheap labour in Europe’s development, but on high knowledge and skills both in business and in the workforce, it is also at least as right and important a strategy for Norway, since our cost level, known to be both high and demanding. That being said, it must be stressed that in spite of this, Norwegian business does not go so badly, precisely because the competitiveness of Norwegian business is relatively high. But we must in no way settle for that, for Norway is hardly going to free the economically uncertain times that threaten large parts of Europe at these very times. Our answer to this must be to fully mobilise the human resources. I agree with the interpellant that it is important that we constantly compare ourselves with other countries in order to determine what our strength is, and where our possible vulnerability is. But in this interpellation – and especially in various newspapers recently – the representative Warloe is trying to draw a picture of the alarmingly poor situation with both research efforts and innovation innovations in Norway. Although the privately funded research is well below the expected level of 2 pst. of GDP, this is not correct. Warloe and Right use big words about the misery of Norwegian research, based on just two indicators: Norway is at the bottom of the Nordic region as a percentage of GDP and in dollars per capita. According to the latest available overview, Norway has a public R & D effort per capita that is best in the Nordic region, and it is about 20 pst. over the country that is number two. Although Norway is also among the best countries in Europe in public funded research, this is not a good image of the stand either, as the privately funded research in Norway, as I said, is not good enough. Warloe's approach to the theme strengthens us in the sense that Right also acts in this policy area in a very narrow and simplified way. Anyone who takes a little look at the complex research value quickly discovers that it may be necessary to find indicators that give a complete picture of the stand. It has the government taking the consequences of and this year it presented the first research barometer. The research barometer should be an annual update and a reliable source of holistic information on the state of Norwegian research. Unlike Right and Warloe's narrow-track approach, the barometer will build on 24 different indicators to evaluate Norwegian research and innovation. To illustrate the broad approach, I will briefly mention that the Research Barometer will present this within six main areas: The investment measured in dollars and cents of human beings, i.e. the researchers, up to and including cooperation, is entirely decisive – it must measure the different areas to measure the results achieved by the various trends in international research. Tora Aasland, Minister of Research, stresses that these six building blocks will meet the global challenges, secure our national welfare challenges and create future jobs. So the government has a very broad and focused approach to the topic. If Norway is particularly poor at the commercialisation of research results achieved compared to other countries, this is highly uncertain, short and good because there are few statistics in the field that are older than a few years old. But what exists shows a strong growth in commercialisation measured in business start-ups and in licensing, both nationally and internationally in recent years. So our call to Henning Warloe and Right is to be nuanced in the Norwegian research environment. That's what our good researchers demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1954	It's an important matter interpellant travels, and he's going to have honor for it. He will also have the honour to stress in his first post that generic knowledge-building and research are also important for business, although it may not look like this from a business-economy perspective. But it is also important in the long term. So I'm glad that the Council of State is talking about two of the three percent that are going to go to research. When the government talks about it, it's sometimes a little uncertain whether it's a goal or not – even when Secretary of State Kyrre Lekve calls the goal pointless and believes that a time fixing of the goal achievement is an idiotic suggestion. So I hope the Council of State also informs the Secretary of State that the 3 pst. goal is established. So I want to mention that one thing is that we have some challenges in terms of innovation power in Norway. But one of the challenges we have is, in a way, also how to measure innovation. I agree with the interpellant that this is challenging, and that we do not seem to get enough left for the funds we spend on research and development. But it is also a problem when, in particular, the EU does not include raw materials-based industry in its innovation barometers. It is clear that, through technological research and development, we are increasing the rate of exploitation of Ecofisk from 17 p.m. to now close to 70 p.p., it's innovation. But since it's a non-renewable commodity we're extracting, it's not included. This has probably earned Norwegian taxpayers in the order of 400 to 500 billion. kr per. So, it's innovation to the greatest extent, just as the development of the mining, fishing and forestry industry in Norway is also innovation, unlike the EU defines it as being. So I think that, in terms of the challenges we see in creating innovation and new jobs, in education and competences that Norwegian researchers bring forward, we must not forget that this is probably a little business too – although this is not a financial debate. But it is clear that when we have the tax regimes we have in Norway, it is natural that some large, heavy, capital intensive industries cannot operate in Norway but operate abroad. Competence is an international phenomenon just like capital is. We're enough, I think, better at skills than at capital in this country, so that's probably something we have to take with us. And so is the fact that a lot of the most obvious advances in competence are taking place in the field of technology. Now, once again, not so many unemployed technologists in Norway are ready to take advantage of these innovations. That's what we're going to discuss this week that's coming. But if we're going to have innovation, we need the workforce to work in these companies. So it's obvious that this is about more money. But if we look at the evaluations presented by the Research Council today, the big, heavy, sharp environments that have a bit of mass, get consistently very good feedback. Everything in this country is district policy, too, to a degree, research policy. But we lubricate the research environments thinly beyond the bread slice, and on every nose and in every valley in Norway – it does something about the quality we can expect to achieve. So this is obviously about more money in the right fields, to the right disciplines, but it's also about spending the money correctly, which I believe is good evidence to say after reading the evaluation that the Research Council has published today. If we are to succeed in this, we need to deliver research at a high international level, participate in international research projects, collaborative projects. First, competence will be of such quality and the innovation will be of such quality that it can survive in an international market as well. Then it's not useful to think that it's going to hold circuit championships; then we have to have Norway championships, and then we have to have a larger national framework for the job we're doing. I just want to draw out one very specific example. We know and the EU knows that health and welfare research will be a new innovative industry in the future. In Norway, we have chosen to distribute a significant proportion of health and welfare research funds through regional health businesses, which until recently have had limited powers to do so. I believe that it would have been more useful also in an innovation perspective to collect that money in a national competitive venue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1973	Firstly, in a hectic budget enquiry, I am probably not as prepared, within the debate, as the important question from Henning Warloe deserves. I'm sorry. Secondly, while I was sitting and writing budgetary remarks here before the break, I was inspired by, but also at the same time a little disturbed by, a debate that was just ahead of us, which was also an interesting debate that went on exactly the same theme, and in which many of the big business representatives participated with great commitment. It's fine; it shows that there are also people outside our committee who are concerned with research and knowledge development and not least the link to value creation. So I think, I could almost say, as always, Tord Lien had a very interesting article about research. I have also prepared some numbers here and could for example. In 2009, public funding for R & D expenditure in Norway was 9.6 p.m. of the total research activity in industry, while Denmark was at 2 pst. and Finland at 2,5 pst. But I have not kept that part of the article – because I am now withdrawing a bit. Then we come back during our own budget debate, and then we have one, not cleaner, but a little bit broader approach to how to measure this important activity in a good way. In that context, not least Tord Lien had some good fabrications about how we do it in the best possible way. But back to the interview itself from Henning Warloe. I have a few questions that I would like to think of getting some comments on. First of all, Warloe's criticizing the government for ever-increasingly earmarking something more. I'm glad, I am, that we have a government that is very concerned that all the policy developments that the government is doing, and all the measures that follow as a consequence of the policy fields, are to be knowledge-based. As you can see, an order for R & D by the government is precisely in order to get the best possible conditions to develop wise policies and not least to put in place the right tools. So some of the ringing discussion that in this way, in such research debate contexts, is being drawn out as something negative, I'd say is something positive in the sails, and I want to give the government credit that it is just so conscious of being knowledge-based in its policy. Secondly, I was a little surprised at how the Fagerberg committee was used, because for me, the Fagerberg committee debate has been in many ways the opposite. There has been a sample that has provided a setting, and not least our good government council has gone out and said that this was not the case in the important debate on the usefulness of research, among other things. The Council of State had anticipated in advance. Here, the Council of State can safely rely on almost all the responses that have come so far, not only from our research world, but also absolutely from our business and society – they underline the same. I brought up the pulpit with me a key to the hearing, which I am supposed to have written out. It has been said, not least from the NHO, but also from heavy research environments, that the word ‘value creation’ hardly exists in the 200-page report. There are, of course, only two out of 200 pages that give just this important theme of attention. It is a pity for all of us who are concerned about the connection between R & D – research and development – on the one hand, and the benefits and joy and the aim and purpose of it on the other. So, finally, a little bit about this by spreading research and higher education thinly. I have not read the evaluation material, which was obviously published today. On the other hand, I have had an interesting debate, at least I think, with the representative Tord Lien on the Research Forum's website on this issue. And I get the point, by scarce means, it's a problem if there's not enough money for the leading, our excellent environments. At the same time, it's so important, if we're interested in value creation, that business out in District Norway is also involved. Business is so often, and we want a diversity and variety in our business. Research and development will continue to support the general, terrestrial, practical business. In this context, we have greatly appreciated what the regional research funds have triggered by good interaction between political authorities, local businesses and research communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e1993	The interpellant raises an important debate, because knowledge is and becomes central. When the North has more than 70 pst. of Norway’s national wealth, it is evident that the level of knowledge of individuals is crucial for innovation and growth both now and in the future. To meet demands for new and more climate-friendly solutions and general requirements for innovation, we need a significant focus on knowledge, research and innovation. Innovation is probably the main driver of the development of society. For the last two hundred years, the world has experienced an economic growth without parallel in history. Growth has led to an increase in living standards to a level that few thought was possible only a generation ago. I really don't have to go back any further than to my own growth. These developments are the innovative and innovative souls behind them. But a innovative and innovative soul does not only become innovative and innovative at the age of 25, after completing its engineering training at NTNU. The very top of their field has had an inventor or innovator living in it from the very beginning. It is our job as politicians to enable society to take care of them and develop the innovative talents that are around the country. We should take care of the inherent curiosity that children have, and stimulate it, develop it and cheer it up – because research is essentially curiosity. Why are things like them? What can we do to correct faults and deficiencies? How are we going to evolve as a nation? Research is absolutely necessary to develop new ideas on which business can build and which will ultimately serve the whole nation. We want this curiosity to shape school policy. We want a school that teaches, a school that gives an experience of mastering. If Norway is to be a competitive knowledge society in the future, we are dependent on a long-term and predictable commitment to education, research, innovation, innovation and entrepreneurship. Jon Lilletun understood this. In 1999 he set up the Research Fund. With a fund structure, he would ensure a long-term and predictability of research. Since the Research Fund began to generate returns in 2001, it has played an important role in Norwegian research. Fund capital amounted to 4 billion in 2000. kr. In 2011, it's $80 billion. kr. While the overall rate of return in 2001 was 203 million. kr, it is estimated at SEK 3,7 billion. kr for 2011. The government will now remove the entire Research Fund and concentrate on what this government has unfortunately become known for, namely the launch of the concept of ‘restorative cutting’ in higher education and research. This may indicate that the Ministry of Finance is strong and research is weak in the government. The removal of the Research Fund is probably a consequence of this, where the research becomes harmful. The talcnus win again at the expense of research quality and long-termity. The Christian People's Party chooses a different line and rather stands in the brink of getting a much stronger and predictable commitment to higher education and research. The Christian People's Party believes that business must be built from below, and that the main role of politicians is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and profits for the distribution of important Community goods. Because we must not forget that it is the future value-creating business that will bear the costs for future generations. Increased investment in research and innovation are key success criteria for a value-creating business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2010	I would like to thank you for the debate, even if it was broken up, we might say. All of us who started before the dinner break agreed that we could continue well. But we were not allowed to do that. Let me try to sum up my interpellation, also since it's been a certain pause. Norway is at the bottom of the Nordic region, among others on the following issues: we are at the bottom of the Nordic region with regard to the European Innovation Scoreboard, which demonstrates the innovation capacity of each country. We are at the bottom of the Nordic region in terms of total R & D effort, both calculated as a percentage of gross domestic product and calculated per capita. We are at the bottom of the Nordic region in terms of cooperation between the Norwegian university and higher education sectors, which in Norway are large and heavy. So this cooperation has been weakened in the last few years. In addition, the productivity of Norwegian enterprises has been on the ground for the last few years, and the Norwegian industry’s R & D effort is lower than in comparable countries and far from the government’s target of 2 pst. I think that these results in total are alarming, and that they show that something should be done to ensure Norwegian competitiveness in the future. Of course, it can be said that today is going well, but it is today that we have to do the smart grips and investments to make sure tomorrow is going well. So it's tomorrow's value creation and tomorrow's well-being that we in the Right are concerned about. Not least, we are in the midst of an alarming economic situation in Europe, as most people say — including the Prime Minister in charge — will take action in Norway and create problems for Norwegian business. So what do we do in this situation? Or more precisely, what will the Council of State for Research and Higher Education do about concrete measures to improve the situation in its area of responsibility? I may not think the Council of State gave very precise answers to that in its first post, in the first round we had, so I challenge her again – not what we've done, or how it's happening today, but what she can do in the future. As a couple of speakers have spoken, we are doing well in terms of public research efforts in Norway. We can be happy about that. I think it's natural. Norway is a rich country, and we can afford this. In our opinion, we should bet even more in these good times. But our problem in Norway is therefore a kind of systemic failure in the connection between public research efforts and value creation, development and research in business. There's a lot left to pick up, and I'll challenge the council again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2021	Thanks for the debate and useful recordings. I am glad that the debate has been equally concerned with what Henning Warloe had to say in his first post, namely the usefulness of research and the recognition that not everything can be accurately measured. I want to start with something Tord Lien said in his article. He said that maybe we were better at skills than at capital. If we take that idea one step further and say that the most important capital is just our competence, our knowledge, our education and research, I'm basically glad that that recognition comes. Of course, we should be good at the proper capital as well. But I think of knowledge as a capital and an important investment in future production, future value creation and in a future good society. Tord Lien was in on – that was Henning Warloe too – the goal we have as a target for research, but that is now one of several goals, namely the percentage of gross domestic product. Then again I will refer to my first post, when I said that both our business life, which is to deliver 2 pst. of the 3, and our gross domestic product is slightly different from the countries with which it is easy to compare. That is also why this objective is important as a target, but not suitable as a management tool. For example, what is more appropriate as a management tool, which provides a better picture of the research situation, is: research barometers that we are now developing. They give a diverse picture of how we cut at the different parts of research, innovation and education – and this is important. The recognition that this cannot only be measured in one way, I think we can eventually agree on all of them. So, Warloe, does our strategies work? Are our strategies good enough, or is there any system failure? I think that having a 3 pst. goal as a long-term goal while having research policy objectives that go on the topic, strengthening free project support and an important motivation in business research, I think is a bundle of instruments that we can also have in the future. I've been asked not to say anything about what we're doing, but what we're going to do. We're going to continue to have SFFs, that is, Centers for Excellent Research – a very important driving force. We're going to continue with FORNY programs. We're going to go on with nutrition PhDs, and we're going to go on with the tools we have at all. We can't decide that business is going to do more research, but we can facilitate, so that they do. We also know that they're researching, even though they're not cutting any of these criteria, which really don't fit Norwegian business. So finally, I think it's been a very interesting and inspiring debate, although it was a little curtailed. Of course, I'm taking along good ideas and ideas from the participants in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2036	Case No. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2053	For me, the political work on the Storting has one overall objective: to ensure the possibility of continued well-being for future generations in a safe and good society. At the centre of this picture is what we can do to give children and young people the best opportunities for future work in an exciting business, a business that develops and creates values. Value creation ensures well-being, and so this is a good circle. I think there is consensus here in the Chamber that this good circle we want, and I am therefore looking forward to a debate on how government and enlargement can contribute to this in common. How do you ensure a business that is optimistic, that is in the forefront and that can still stand out internationally because of its high level of competence and unique solutions? Knowledge and competitiveness ensure well-being, and a conscious relationship with the need for knowledge-rich employees is therefore crucial. I am concerned about all the feedback I get about the lack of staff with sufficient expertise, and about the lack of applicants for jobs that require cutting-edge skills and international knowledge. Repeatedly we have debated the space for action of universities and colleges. For a long time, there was little understanding of this issue from the Department and political leadership, but after the Action Space Committee had made its report, it seems that all parties agree that the scope of action for this important sector has been reduced. There are several reasons why it has become so, and I am not going to start a big budget debate in this context, but it is important that we address the challenge of reducing the scope for action. It creates a tough everyday life for everyone working in the sector, but at first it hits the students. The feedback from the students is also that there is less follow-up and feedback to the individual student, there is education in growing groups, guidance is less frequent, and research participation for the students is almost impossible to carry out in a qualitatively good way. It worries me that the feedback is so clear on this, and it must be clear that this is not a good way to ensure top education. I'm worried that this will weaken the recruitment of some of the educations, and I'm particularly concerned that in this way we don't seem attractive to students from other countries. Students talk to each other, across borders, and since Norway has a clear desire to attract foreign students, we also need a strategy for ensuring an attractive, high-quality and well-reputed offer. Upstairs students are hard judges. The signals from the students and employees at universities and colleges are coincident and must be taken seriously, and it fits well with our desire to deliver the best possible offer. I'm curious to hear what strategy the Council of State has to fix this. The fact that employers in the private and public sectors increasingly lack skilled labour and have to hire people from a list of applicants in which the best professional skills are absent has, of course, several reasons. There could have been more interpellations about that topic. However, it is beyond doubt that we train too few people to some of the most strenuous professional groups. Public challenges are especially in health and school, and there are major challenges. I'm not going to take this up especially today. We will have ample opportunity to address this when the government comes forward with its communication on welfare education next spring. It's an important message, and it becomes an important work. However, there are other industries that are really struggling and that have notified over time that they are considering moving their business to another country where it is easier to obtain competent staff. It's a threat we don't want hanging over us, and we have to do something about it. I have repeatedly taken care to boast of the educational offer we have in our country, an offer where every child can plan to become a mechanic, designer, nurse, engineer or researcher without having to choose anything because of social or ethnic background. We have had and have a good education offer, and that is what has formed the basis for a Norwegian business that has a unique position internationally because of knowledge-based services to an entire world. Knowledge has given us competitiveness, knowledge has given us this opportunity. I myself live in a part of the country – South Africa – that has a long international history through shipping. Shipping continues to be a major business in the South, but what has really taken off is the supplier industry. The fact that the traditional maritime supply industry is now speeding up and having headshots is that highly skilled employees have brought the industry into the world as best of solutions for the oil and gas industry at sea. What they sell is so based on the wise minds that multinational companies buy up businesses here and are clear that they don't want to move them, because that's where the competence -- the good minds -- is. That's great. That's how we want it, but that's not how we're sure it's going to be. These industries now really need to search to find the skills they need. They seem to have to cooperate with universities in other countries to ensure recruitment. This is not wrong in itself, but where is Norway’s own effort to acquire the right skills for its business life? I have now mentioned an example of a cluster of skills that is struggling. These we have a lot of. It's Arena clusters and it's NCEs. There are businesses spread across the country, businesses with optimism and development. There are good knowledge jobs, they create work for subcontractors, and they ensure value creation across the country. Their competitive power in the future is the good minds. The best knowledge and competence is a competitive advantage that beats! We have a well-developed offer with colleges, colleges and universities. We have students like never before, but we still can't train enough of the good minds with the right knowledge. When we also struggle to bring these people into an international competition, there is cause for concern. ‘Norway is unable to attract the best global talents. Two out of three knowledge establishments consider active policies to be necessary. The government sleeps an hour,” says strategic advisor in Abelia, Tarje Bjørgum. He goes on to say: ‘Norway is not perceived as an attractive destination for people with high education and required skills. New figures show that we are attracting lower levels of competence from abroad, measured at educational level, than what already exists here. From a world point of view, Norway is far from the first choice for wise heads.’ Furthermore, Bjørgum is concerned that new research, innovation and knowledge are now being created beyond the borders of Norway, in global research and knowledge environments around the globe, without Norwegian actors having close links to talents, entrepreneurs and researchers from these environments. This will be a prerequisite for a competitive business in a high-cost country such as Norway. The concerns of Bjørgum also underline the need to have a conscious strategy to keep foreign students who have chosen to come to Norway and who complete their education here. These students are a valuable resource, which we would like to get on with. What do we want to do to keep them? I do not expect the Council of State or the Stortinget to come up with a hokuspokus decision that solves the challenges of Norwegian working life when it comes to getting enough competent workers, Norwegian or foreign workers. What I expect, however, is that, before it's too late, we do what we can to influence and facilitate an education that is more responsive to the challenge. It requires that we have a clear strategy for how to achieve such goals. How are we going to recruit the good heads? How are we going to make use of the education we have so that the maritime sector, the oil and gas industry, the process industry, construction and construction and other industries can have good access to the necessary skills? How should the public sector access qualified health professionals, the best teachers and the best case handlers in the coming years? What is the strategy of the State Councils for the development of our educational institutions? Finally, I would like to remind you of the starting point for this interpellation: knowledge and competitiveness ensure well-being. Ensuring well-being is the most important thing we can do for those who come after us. Now I look forward to a debate on how we will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2089	Economic unrest affects the labour market in many European countries. It shows that the challenge that Svein Harberg is giving me is very important. Norway must have a business that is capable of transition and innovation. That's where we're on the whole line. Higher education must respond to the needs of both private and public employment, both in the short term and in the long term. Challenges have to be turned into opportunities, and we have to work smarter. Developments in the labour market and industry show that Norway will need more workers with higher education in the future. Particularly important are realists, technologists, economists, health workers and teachers. That's where I think we're on the line too – and I'm referring to Harberg's posts here now. Since 2009, the government has financed almost 7 000 new places of study which will form the final phase of the phase-in process of increasing capacity beyond 20,000 new places of study. These workshops allow institutions to develop services where national and regional needs exist. Study provision in real science and technology recruits fewer skilled students than the need for community life suggests. However, through active work in a number of areas, we gradually succeed in improving recruitment in this area. Three-year engineering training may, for example: refer to an increase in the recording for the seventh consecutive year. This is very pleasant and a good basis to build on. Close cooperation with industry is, of course, a success factor here. The Ministry will closely follow the application for higher education, including in the years to come, in order to assess the need for additional places of study. Strengthening interaction between higher education and society around it means that the needs of the business community to which the representative Harberg refers can be followed up more quickly by universities and colleges. More interaction will also contribute to increased quality and relevance. This applies to research, study provision and study content. Surveys show many good examples of cooperation between professional environments and working life. But the same studies also say that interaction has been too person-dependent, too fragmented and too weakly anchored by many institutions. Although both the representative Harberg and I want a stronger interaction between universities and colleges and social and work life, it is important to stress that our higher education institutions are currently training good candidates. Institutions often carry out surveys asking employers how satisfied they are with newly educated candidates. The studies at both the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen show that employers are very pleased with the candidates in terms of professional competence, and not least in terms of the ability to meet changes and to address new challenges. This is perhaps one of the best qualities of Norwegian workers. In order to draw more attention to the important role of society played by institutions, I have launched the concept of ‘social contract’. The social contract shall contribute to a greater mutual understanding between the academia and society and the business community. There is no contradiction between maintaining the professional independence of the institutions and actively cooperating with business and society. Institutions need to make the importance of knowledge, competences and the culture of institutions more visible. And since Harberg mentioned his own district in particular, I want to praise the new universities for the very ability they have to have a good relationship with the working life – that is, both Agder, Stavanger and Nordland – in a completely different way from the big, old universities. Here, it is important that this emerges, and that these institutions show the benefits of the activities of society. Societies and working life must also have an ownership relationship with the education provision we have. Here, exciting pilot work has been started in the context of the social contract both in the north and in the north. This will provide useful experience in further developing this. At the same time, it is necessary to stimulate more structured meeting places anchored in the management, plans and strategies of the institutions. For this reason, during 2011, all institutions will establish a Council for cooperation with the labour market and develop a strategy precisely for cooperation with the labour market and society. Councils shall include representatives from different sectors. The labour market must take a view of educational needs and the content of education. I am particularly concerned that several bachelor degrees are becoming more relevant in relation to the needs of the working life. Cooperation within the Council will provide an opportunity to facilitate precisely such developments, and this will hopefully increase the quality and relevance of institutions’ services. In addition, the Council may contribute to an even greater contribution of educational institutions through education and research to the development of the labour market in a knowledge-based and dynamic direction. At all, interaction and cooperation are essential keywords to achieve this. Candidates leaving the labour market must have sound professional knowledge, change skills and willingness to meet and meet new challenges. It is the institutions that are primarily responsible for the quality of education and, to put it bluntly, the students themselves are making the choices. But we have to try to motivate them to make good choices. All institutions must therefore have structures and systems to ensure that education is research-based and relevant. However, several institutions are likely to have a wider range of research and education services than are professional and economic. High quality education and research requires universities and colleges to have robust professional environments with a clear profile. For this reason, I have stressed that each institution strengthens professional administrative cooperation in order to achieve a clearer division of labour and professional concentration, what we call SAC – cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration. I've allocated 50 million. kr to such SAC processes in 2010 and 2011 and propose accordingly in 2012. In addition, the Norwegian Research Council has a number of instruments contributing to SACs, such as: national research schools. Another measure that will strengthen the quality of candidates and improve the transition between higher education and working life is the introduction of the national Qualifications Framework. The Qualification Framework describes the learning outcomes expected for all candidates at the end of their education, including: as regards knowledge of innovation and innovation processes. One of the objectives is to make it easier for employers to be familiar with the candidate’s competence after completion of education. Open institutions are essential for meeting changing business needs quickly. Through the Quality Reform, universities and colleges were given increased freedom related to professional, economic and organisational issues. Developments towards more autonomous institutions shall continue. At the same time, however, institutions need to use the considerable space they actually have within the current framework of action. A small comment on the report of the Action Space Committee that we are all together to follow up, because it pointed out both the challenges facing the government and the government, but also the challenges facing the institutions themselves. It is commendable to see that more of our universities are now exploring their own room for action in order to do it even better. Quality better institutions, better education and better research will require a willingness to make priorities clearer and thus also good governance on the part of institutions. A new national approach to increase the institutional space for action is the revision of target and performance management. The conversion entails a substantial delegation from the Ministry and the institutions. The objectives of the activities set up by the Ministry up to now will be removed. These are now to be developed by the individual institution itself. This will give individual universities and universities greater scope for action, and will allow the development of strategies and offers adapted to the profile of the institution. I hope that the institutions will develop their objectives in cooperation with their partners, and that in this way we will receive good and relevant training offers and candidates that are sought after in the workplace. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of continuing training as essential both for providing businesses with up-to-date knowledge and skills and for providing individual safety in the workplace. It is therefore important to facilitate flexible provision of higher education services, organised both as decentralised and as distance learning. In order to expand and upgrade the ICT infrastructure of the institutions, a total of 12 million has been set. kr to develop the eCampus project in 2012. A common infrastructure will facilitate access to high-quality study provision by continuing training students in all parts of the country. Society and industry must have confidence in the training they receive. This trust arises from the provision by the institutions of good candidates with the relevant skills for the working life to which they are going. This requires institutions to have good quality development procedures. In addition, permanent meeting places need to be established with the labour market. Through the exchange of experience and the development of common strategies, I believe that both society and educational institutions can make the best use of each other, and that trust also becomes a mutual and therefore a starting point to achieve what both Harberg and I agree on: good quality of the students we train, and students with a competence that suits the wishes and requirements of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2115	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There's obviously a lot we agree on, including the way we're going. Maybe that's the speed and the tools along the way we disagree a little bit. It might also have to do with roles, I'll admit that. I want to go back to the transition from the previous interpellation to this. Because there it was, I think, a very nice ending. There we agreed – yes, it is not necessarily just positive – that we are better at knowledge than at capital. But then it was so nice that knowledge is our capital, we agree on that. That's why we call out a little warning when we see that capital may be threatened, and that position and the instrument that the capital can be is threatened. Then we'll have to be on top of each other. So it's right when the Council of State challenges the cooperation between the institutions and the business community. It's a challenge. We're talking about this in almost every debate where we're talking about how higher education is going to develop. Still, we see that it's not everywhere that we make this work. Governments themselves mentioned the new universities. I know, among other things. that the process of becoming a university in South Africa and working with the business community about it caused us to receive mechatronics education, for example. It shows that it is possible to develop new things. Our challenge is that there are new things that we need to be educated in as these industries evolve. I know, among other things. that many of the nutritionists now feel a strong need to acquire skills in logistics. Many of the supplier industries provide services and deliver parts and services around the world, struggling with the logistics skills of their businesses themselves. There are other such additional skills that you have to gain. No later than today, I've had a meeting with a college that has started a test project on an education, which will now make it permanent, but has not been included in the allocation of places. The colleges can't just move around, that is. they can do it, but they don't get funding for it. There we might want to see if we can find better solutions to meet colleges when they see that here there is an industry that needs something, we have the skills to solve it, we'll do it together with the industry, but we need the funding. Anyway, I think it's even more important with a clear political leadership that says what we want, where we want, and that also follows it up in the budgets. But that debate will be held in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2132	To say what we want, we want high-quality students. And where we want – we want it to be a professional force in the education offer that makes the students train for something that is sought after and sought after, but that it is also in educational context and in student time a personal development – we can call it education, we can call it a way of being developed as a person – so that you can deal with the situations that you as a worker or later as a leader get into. These are important objectives of our educational institutions. We have a set of universities and colleges that have a strong professional autonomy. They can decide a lot of this for themselves, including how many students they want, but it is clear that there are some limits to both basic funding and the possibilities to collect extra funds. The study places granted by the government — we do not have a single price system in Norway — are in addition to the starting point that the universities had, and provide opportunities for, for example. to train more in the field of engineering, more in the field of teaching and more in the field of health. That's the priorities the government has done, and it shows a clear direction for what the government thinks is important. I don't quite share the very great concern that Harberg expresses. Obviously we have some challenges, but we have good offers, and we have, as said, good feedback from working life on what candidates can do when they come out. What I think we need to be together about the future is to think about how we're going to find the good balance between the independence that universities and universities have to decide what they want to learn about, and what kind of professional basis and professional profile they want, and what it's employment and business demand – combined, of course, with the students' own choices. As I was in my previous post, it's actually students' choices that are quite crucial for many of the offers that exist, but we can motivate students to choose, for example. engineering, teaching or health science precisely by prioritising it, as the government has done. I believe that we are very much in agreement on both the objectives and the direction. Here's more of a question about how we can do this without getting worse quality, because it can often be if you take in too many and overcomply with the numbers you have for the number of students. This is about finding the good balances and a good interaction between the institutions and society around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2147	At the same time as I would like to commend the interpellant for the invitation to a very topical debate, I would like to say that in Norway, we are experiencing a business that is strongly influenced by being competent and optimistic about the future. We have a competitive business with a high level of adaptability and that in many areas is actually at the forefront globally. In the West there is once again optimism in business, and it promises well for the country. In most sectors of business in Hordaland and in Sogn and Fjordane, there was a sharp decline in the financial crisis in 2009. There was a fall that was followed by a cautious optimism in 2010. Pilanes began to point up again at the beginning of this year, that is in 2011, and in the last half of this year, the trend is further accentuated. So the Norwegian economy is in the middle of a clear growth period, despite the fact that there is still a modest growth momentum in the world economy. Closer 95 pst. by the companies in the West report stable and strong market outlooks in the current year. While in 2010, i.e. last year, the service industries that had the greatest faith in the future saw the year's results from the Food Barometer for the two counties that industry and construction also have good times. A large proportion of key industries reported by the engineering industry and the shipbuilding industry report a better market outlook and an increase in order access. Nearer 80 pst. of the enterprises count on stable or better profitability and each fourth enterprise plans to increase investment this year. The Assembly will have given me my forgiveness that I always refer to the West, but that is because developments in the West are a good indicator of developments in the country. The Western world is the hallmark of having a very far-reaching business life, and the major global changes that often occur notice a difference first there. Sogn and Fjordane had the lowest unemployment rate in the country, with 2.3 pst. by the labour force recorded as a whole without work, against 2.9 pst. on a national basis. However, close to one-half of the companies in the investigation report that they have problems recruiting the relevant labour force. Of these half say they would have added more if there had been better recruitment access. Lack of sufficient skilled labour is therefore one of our major challenges. In other words, Norway is in a unique situation. But this background image should be linked to the fact that Norway has to rise to the height of the new economic crisis that is happening to many European countries these days, probably now Norway at a time if not too long. Norway must meet with more than one higher education worker in the future. Thus, our educational institutions become our most important crossing points to secure work for all and good welfare services. Although institutions in the UH sector generally do a good job, the decline in higher education is alarmingly high. For the 40 286 students who started higher education in 1999, the drop-out rate was 36.9 pst. Otherwise, there is no unknown percentage in the policy! And -- I've been saying -- as usual, the guys are getting worse, with a whole of 44 pst. who did not complete the training. Although knowledge and data in this area may be somewhat flawed, this is something that naturally needs to be addressed. In order to raise awareness of the important role of society played by institutions, the government, as the Minister of Research said, has launched the ‘social contract’. Such a contract shall strengthen contact and understanding between academia on the one hand and society and business on the other. In this perspective, I will also mention the Qualification Framework. It is about the implementation by all institutions of this qualification framework for higher education by the end of 2012. This means that we get a clearer explanation of the learning outcomes you get at the different levels of education. This will thus help employers to become well aware of the competence of a candidate after his or her education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2168	I have noted that the representative Bremer was concerned about the strong and outward-looking business community in the West. He did not mention in the same sling the obviously culturally conditioned – and healthy, I have to say – the scepticism against central power and the paying of taxes, for which one is also known in the West. It's good that I got it recorded. It's not that often I say so much positive about the EU from this pulpit – or from any other pulpit, for that matter. Let me start by saying that if it had not been for the crisis in the EU now, which allows us to recruit skilled labour from both Poland and Eastern Europe otherwise, but also highly trained technological skills from countries like Italy and, in part, Spain, then that crisis, which I think we have to say in some industries in Norway, would have been even tougher to deal with. Then it's not like the technology shortage that you have in large parts of Norwegian business is just affecting business. It also greatly affects municipalities, not least in the West, where business is actually quite strong, and where more and more municipalities have unaccompanied positions with demands for technological competence. So it's like there's some students coming here and going home on a voluntary basis. Of course, we should have done something about that, as the interpellant was about to do. So it's also like some students, e.g. from the u-national quota, forced return home after completion of education. Clearly, if you come from Somalia and travel to Trondheim and take a master's degree in geophysics, there is a relatively limited labour market in Somalia for that type of competence. They're not going home to build Africa. They're traveling to Canada to build Canadian business and industry. Here I believe that we might be able to take a debate on how we can make greater use of the labour already in the country, which wants to be here to some extent, but which is not allowed to be here. I think the interpellant made a good point, but I think it's a little surprising when you raise this kind of debate, that you don't discuss structure, because I like to do that very well. The negotiating room is more than a financial operating room. I believe that both the rectors, the ministry and the Stortinget have abdied to a large extent in terms of doing the necessary action on higher education to provide the industry and the labour market with the skills they need. Rectors, staging representatives and state councils have left to Norwegian Russian – Norwegian 18-year-olds – to define the capacity in higher education in Norway. A lot of positive can be said about the country's future, but if they're qualified to make these kind of strategic assessments, I'm a little doubtful and think enough that maybe you need to consider stronger incentives to the sector, to get this straight. We do that through SAC, which we agree on, cooperation, division of labour and concentration. In the long term, maybe we'll use other tools. It is also about the fact that engineering training, which has been discussed by many people, has a particularly large disqualification. There are large regional differences in the rates of dropout, which colleges do it very well, and which colleges are struggling more. Then there is also the introduction of a new plan for engineering training, with, in my opinion, greater ambitions, which are quite right to do, without having followed extra funding with those ambitions. I think that's something we need to solve. Then it's hoped that the new social contract, the new target management system of the Ministry of Knowledge, does not mean that we're now getting eight equal universities – the size is probably not going to be the same, no matter what you think about it – but that the profile is going to be the same. I hope we'll see that universities evolve in different directions, that the two broad universities that we have here in South Norway continue to do so, but that the others are more likely to choose a clear and clear profile of what they're going to do. I hope that both the Storing and the Council of State will follow it together. So the interpellant said there's no hocus pocus. This may not be a very parliamentary concept, but the President must consider it, as I have said. The prerogatives of the President are not to be mocked. But there is also some hocuspocus to some extent, because this is about increasing the number of students – the study capacity – within some disciplines, especially the training of engineers, and I hope that the Right and the Council of State will take it with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2187	The president lets the "hokuspokus" pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2190	I have no competence in either Russian celebration or hokuspokus, so I'm going to stay within the parliamentary vocabulary. How does business ensure access to knowledge-based and competent employees, in order to strengthen competitiveness? That's the question. The question is timely, and it is appropriate to thank the interpellant for both the theme selection and the angle. The Norwegian public debate on knowledge has changed in the last decade. It has changed from thinking about how to avoid talking about the level of knowledge of students and students, in danger of stigmatizing the student(s) who did not perform the average, to moving the debate by means of the introduction of the Knowledge Promise to allow us to discuss what students can and what students can do. We can even ask if the Norwegian education sector will provide the competent young people, with the knowledge we need, without being arrested for it. This has been an important change in many ways. Only when measuring skills and level of knowledge is done can we go further and compare our performance with other countries. It's based on the population's level of knowledge that we can find our place in a global knowledge economy. There has also been a debate about whether we need to focus so much on our competitiveness. Our ability to compete is crucial if we are to maintain and develop the level of well-being we have today. We like to adorn ourselves with our good position in the United Nations' standard of living. Let one thing be clear: we don't keep that position without taking the goal of being the best in knowledge. Right, we think we need to have some principles in place. We need to measure participation, level of implementation and level of knowledge in the education sector, and then we need to improve in those areas where we are doing poor measurements. An example of what we can improve is, as it has been mentioned now, the upsurge in the real world, because if our business is to have a advantage, it depends on us having people who master these. A close symbiosis between business and educational institutions gives good indications that we are training the right professionals. It's about relevance. There are examples of holes in the educational path. The education of Russian-speaking people in North Norway is one of several examples. This lacks consistency between the ambitions of primary, secondary and higher education. This means that candidates are not sufficient throughout the course, and the need for language skills in society is not met – despite the fact that we have a relatively ambitious Northern Region strategy, which brings this particular type of education forward as one of the most important things we do, but we do not have the ability to implement it. Another important principle is the involvement of private actors in national research programmes. It will strengthen the research sector in Norway – both quality, breadth and flexibility. Here, the Right often gets criticism from the left to privatize all research. That's wrong. We will ensure the quality, relevance and diversity of research. Last but not least, we need to look at the ability of Norwegian business to compete with the rest of the world. This point is the premiscible for the debate on national competitiveness in a global knowledge economy. We have long since entered the age of the knowledge society. That means, in the Right's view, that we are processing the skills we have with us after living in the industrial community. We're processing it using new knowledge. This is how we are able to use a competent population and new knowledge to transform ourselves, so that we are cutting high on living conditions statistics in the future as well. That's the future we're talking about. When we from the pulpit also discuss students coming to Norway, the issue is exactly the same. We must have a training course that ensures that we train young people to work competently, regardless of whether they leave the country or not. We're going to have to do something about that in a different way. But a course of education and a sector of education that provides the skills that we need – that's the question that's all coming down to. Then we get the competitiveness we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2213	There are big questions the interpellant wants to get an answer at a November evening hour in Stortinget. Two of us in the hall today were at the group meeting with SV yesterday. There was also Torger Reve, the BI professor. He referred to an enterprise, which I believe was neither tränderish nor from the West country, but from Rogaland, which had as its motto «animal and best». He used it as an entrance to the point that we have to expect in the future — several have been involved — that Norway will be a high-cost country, and the only way to survive as high-cost country is to be the best. That is a good and honest approach to the debate we have here today. Our starting point is that we are a country with the highest professional participation in the world, and we have one, relative, high birth rate. We have a lot of work immigration. Nevertheless, we look at projections after projections that we are missing many types of labour force. The councils were in a good way inside it in their posts. This applies to everything from highly educated people academically, but it also applies to skilled workers. The whole big challenge we're facing is that we have a fundamental imbalance in our society today. We all notice that in a few weeks' time: one day we have a visit by Abelia, the other day it's Tekna, the third day it's Education Association, and the fourth day it's Building Industry National Association. It shows in a very good way that there are many groupings that are, very right and right, looking to talk to us to get the big problem that is associated with the scarcity of good labour. A contribution to this debate that has not yet been mentioned is that there is likely to be a large, untapped potential in our adult population, and not least in the adult population. Many studies show that there are many people out there, most of them at work, who can definitely want some further education, either process what they already have, or maybe start something completely new. That training must be readily accessible and must be provided to a large extent in the working situation and where it is located. In this way, a relatively high-employment population can be better employed by getting a more up-to-date and relevant competence in our future society. Another point in this debate, as we have discussed in the past, is that Norway is popular as a student country for various reasons — not only because it is cheap to study here, but it is a more attractive country to study in, not least at the doctoral level. But then the intrusive situation tends to cause them to go back home largely, either by force or, above all, by voluntary means. They don't want to live here in the country. There's a lot of reasons for that, but I think that's what I'm going to call, with my social planning language, housing activity -- that's that Norway becomes an attractive society to live and work in for the whole family. There I think we're on the right track doing a lot of right things beyond what's the responsibility of the church, education and research committee, just that we're building an infrastructure that makes it possible here to live modern life with little kids, while at the same time having a professional career, etc. It will make it easier for us to keep such a skilled workforce. So I think ownership policy, which is an important and interesting theme that we will be discussing more thoroughly here in the Chamber in a moment, is also important. We have to keep interesting companies asking for that kind of competence. In the end, I would like to say a little general about recent school developments. I know that Kristin Halvorsen expressed this in the following way: it can look as if Norwegian school is completely hopeless when we look at how the 12-year-olds, the 15-year-olds and the 16-year-olds cut their studies. But when we meet the same people again as 20-year-olds, they are suddenly among the best, precisely because they have a maturity, a seawardness and a creativity that not least the new business will demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2232	The last three interpellations on today's map are closely intertwined and intertwined, and also what the interpellant addresses is an important question. It is an important issue not only for today's situation, but also for how we can strengthen our competitiveness in the future through access to knowledge-based employees. To succeed in this, I believe that some of the answers to that is – as has been said by several – a close interaction between industry, universities and universities. A large part of business today sees the need for long-term knowledge development and understands the importance of effective interaction between educational institutions and business – many of which are also important and active support players. It's positive. I read with interest Abelia’s report entitled ‘Honningkrikken Norway?’, focusing on ‘the wise minds’ – that knowledge workers and talents are part of a global labour market. Growing in Norway, therefore, requires not only that we train our own young people, but also that we need a high level of competence. The knowledge industry employs more than 500000 people today and is the largest employment unit in the private sector. This industry is central because it is also important for other industries in Norway. As mentioned at the beginning of my speech: Business and educational institutions need to cooperate, but companies also need to cooperate and exchange knowledge – we see a lot of places in the country, and that’s very good – while much is about active government and government policies and actions. I come from a part of the country where business, not least the maritime industry, is already internationally oriented, and working towards the rest of the world to provide labour. We also see that the number of foreign students is increasing at the University of Ålesund, and so is it in other parts of the country. In the report from Abelia, we read that knowledge immigration must be part of business policy. I think it's an interesting thought. If we are to have access to foreign labour, it must be attractive to come to Norway. Oslo Global Mobility Forum is working on this precisely to find out what is required for knowledge workers to come to Norway and what to do to make them want to stay here. We have to sell Norway as an attractive place to live, work and establish a business. We have some way to go before we get to the goal. Much more than what is being done today must therefore be done. In particular, Innovation Norway needs to become stronger on the ground. We need to make the Norwegian community more internationally oriented. In Ålesund, as I know best, an international school is now being established, an offer for both children and young people to meet the needs of the foreign families. It's usually not just one family member who's coming. Therefore, many and varied job opportunities are needed, adapted to highly educated two career families. In addition, living environments must be perceived as attractive. Kindergarten services, cultural services, good schools, varied sports services and recreational opportunities are of great importance when families and individuals choose a place of residence. A society characterised by openness, tolerance and hospitality will also be central to making it attractive for people from other countries and cultures to study, live and work in Norway. Finally, it is necessary to put an end to the migration of the Norwegian competence environment from Norway in order to establish where the competence is concerned. That trend must be reversed. It must be more attractive to be and to establish itself in Norway. We have to make sure that Norway becomes such an attractive country to live and work in, that the 15 000 foreign students who hold 25pst. of all Norwegian doctoral degrees, stay in the country. That may well be optimistic, because today, unfortunately, the majority of foreign students leave the country after graduation. Then we've given them an education -- that's good, that's good -- to let them compete with us next time. It's not quite that good. We have to do this reverse operation. It is possible to do so, but active policies are needed in different policy areas, creative thinking needs to be developed, and more targeted strategies and active actions need to be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2248	As a proud southerner, it was probably as far as it kept going, when Tor Bremer had his post, before I got up and sang «AWESTLAND, Vestland», but I managed to hold it back. The representative, Aksel Hagen, pointed out that he had heard about the company that complained about ‘the most expensive and the best’. If I am not mistaken, the same manager has become the contractor of the year. What he has invested enormous resources on is to recruit — have a large recruitment base — and to take care of the employees. That's his key to success. It just helps to emphasize that when we have good employees, good people, we can be the best. Yeah, it's a challenge to make people stay. Maybe we'll have to do some tour. That was something that struck me: when there was some supervision that was moved around the country – to the South would the Post and Telecommunications Authority travel – we were five rapporteurs who joined us, and said that now we have to tell something about our part of the country. We traveled to Oslo, talked to them and presented ourselves. We invited them on tour to South Africa, and it went well. There has been a visit to the positions, and perhaps we need to make concrete, conscious offers also in the case of foreign students. Here are many attractive places of residence, many attractive places of work. We have to tell them about and have a conscious relationship with them. So just an answer to Tord Lien, who missed the structural debate: It was perfectly conscious that I did not use the word. I don't think so, Tora Aasland thinks I forgot, because I've asked for it so many times. I had a couple of hidden questions: how are we going to take advantage of the education that we have? And what is the strategy of the State Councils for the development of educational institutions? There was a small invist there to also think structure in relation to it, but I'm going to promise that we're going to come back to this. I would like to thank you for the debate. It's been constructive. What makes me optimistic is that there seems to be a lot of consensus about the description of reality. We see that we have a lot of good, we see that we can go into some new challenges, and we agree to address them. So we're going to be careful, be on the hook and push, so that we get to take concrete action to meet that need.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2261	This has been an interesting debate, and I think that in the follow-up to this debate we must be courageous enough not only to challenge the structural aspects of recruitment and quality matters, but also to be concerned with what kind of content and what quality we give in education. So both the structure and the content have to be the lines that we're leading the debate on. I just want to make some comments in this last article. In terms of our development of the thinking of social contracts, and insofar as the challenges of, among other things, Tord Lien, my clear goal is that diversity should be given room. We have a lot of higher education institutions in Norway. We've been given many indications, not least in the Star Island Committee's report, that we have a little too many people who are small and vulnerable. This government has then chosen to stimulate professional strengthening through SAC, i.e. cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration, and in the extension of it – social contract. The SAK can strengthen its basis for both research and education. The development of social contracts allows for a fine-tuning of the regional profile, for example: as one of the three Nordic states is about in our work there with the social contract, and the three universities in More and Romesdal, which are the ones for which we have just started a process. This is exciting, because you're different. The representative Harberg called for competence in logistics. I can tell you that at the University of Molde they have doctoral education in logistics, and I think this is a subject that probably comes many other places as well. But here I am very open to opportunities for cooperation across both geography and other barriers that may be there. We aim to be strong, we aim to have an offer where we have colleges, universities and environments of competence today, and it's just about making things right. When it comes to the debate on foreigners and getting them to stay in Norway, I want to turn it around a little bit and say that when we send Norwegian students abroad, it's of course okay that they stay there – some people do – but we think it's all right to get them back. I see it this way that when we provide foreign students with education here in Norway, it is nice that they bring something with them about Norway when they may return to their respective countries, and it is nice that they bring with them their country's culture and way of life when they may stay in Norway. With regard to the more coercive challenges here, I'm not subject to coercion, neither in the case of the Russian – I'm excited about what the Progress Party comes with there – nor about getting foreign students to stay in Norway. I don't want to use coercion in any of those cases, but I think that good organization and good motivation must be the best starting point for getting an education with good relevance and good quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2276	That is when the debate is on case No. 9 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2282	We only have unanimous voting and, as far as we can see, we are decisive. Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 is already a votert.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2374	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2407	In Case No: 7–9 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-17.ana.ud1981e2444	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
