ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e26	The representative Helga Pedersen applied for parental leave from 9 February onwards and from the spring session of Stortinget, 17 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Willy Pedersen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e44	Willy Pedersen is present and will take his seat. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e49	On behalf of the representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vokskesen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to winter-proof foreign trailers on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e54	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e57	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to turn the Pre-Court into a national park, proposals to increase the competence of child protection and proposals to revise the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e62	The representative Åse Michaelsen wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e65	I will, on behalf of Morten Ørsal Johansen, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Ulf Leirstein and myself promote a proposal for a representative on closer cooperation and better methods of customs and police action in the fight against illegal immigration and other crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e70	Finally, the representative, Mr Andersen Eide, wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e74	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Hans Olav Syversen, Line Henriette Hämdal, Knut Arild Hareide and myself, propose guidelines for active state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e79	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e91	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Council of State Liv Signe Navarsete, Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the Council of State Sigbjørn Johnsen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. Then we're ready to start with the first main question, which is from the representative Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e100	I want to address a problem with the Minister of Finance. It concerns fuel prices. Recently, most Norwegian households have experienced sky-high electricity bills. Many of these have paid their electricity bills and seen that this has done a huge cut in the private economy. At the same time, fuel prices are seen shooting in the weather. Most recently in the news yesterday, there were experts who were out there and said that you have to assume that it is now more than 15 kroner for petrol, and probably for diesel. For very many households, this will mean a lot to the private economy. Of course, this is related to the fact that we have an oil price that is now above the $100 barrel, which is over 20 pst. more than the figures in the Ministry of Finance meant when we dealt with the state budget a few months ago. At the same time, it is important to remember — and this is where the Minister of Finance and his responsibilities come in — that approx. 60 pst. of the price that people pay for petrol, 60 pst., goes to the state in fees. For diesel, it's over 50 pst. who goes back to the state fund. This means that the state has an opportunity to do something about the price paid by Norwegian drivers when filling petrol and diesel. In particular, it is a paradox that precisely because of the high oil price, the Norwegian state receives much more in income. We're talking about maybe 50-100 billion. kr more this year than expected in November. On the one hand, the state now receives record money, while most people have to spend more of their private economy on petrol and diesel. Does the Minister of Finance see any challenges here? Is he concerned about this high price level of fuel we now get in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e113	I understand why the representative Leirstein addresses that question. It is well known in Stortinget that on different occasions, when petrol prices, diesel prices and electricity prices increase, we get that discussion. I think it's important here to assume what the gas price is. First, it's a crude oil price. Then there is a user charge set in kroner and ears per litre; it is not affected by the oil price. Then on top of it is a CO2 tax, which is also linked to liters of fuel. Besides that, there's a margin for dealer, and then there's VAT on top of it. So it can be seen in isolation that when the crude oil price increases, the VAT revenue of the country also increases from fuel, but it is not certain that the revenue of the treasury will increase for that reason. Because this could mean that consumers are holding back from other consumption. So the total value added tax revenue for the country does not necessarily have to increase for that reason. So it's right, as the representative Leirstein says, that increased oil prices also lead to an increase in net cash flow to the state from the oil business. Then it is important to remember that it will affect the 4 pst path, how much oil revenue you can include in the annual government budget. It's a significantly smaller amount. Then it is important to remember that in the current year we are above the 4 pst track, so the Minister of Finance's plan is enough that what now had to enter into additional revenues over the year is to go into the balance sheet. And I have no plans to reduce the level of charges on either petrol, diesel or other fuels as a result of a higher crude oil price. Here we will stick to the fees that Stortinget has already adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e127	It hardly drops like a bomb in this room that the Minister of Finance would like to put the extra revenue on book. So I wasn't very surprised by that answer. But at the same time, I think it is a concern, because it is a good thing that you are now going to have the opportunity to put extra money on the book. But there's a lot of extra income that you now get because of a very high oil price. At the same time, consumers and people in Norway are most likely to be burdened in their private economy by the fact that there have now been high electricity prices and that there are now also high fuel prices. I am somewhat surprised that the Minister of Finance does not see that this can be a concern. For only the last four years, the pump price has increased by NOK 3-4. For an average family, this means that, compared with four years ago, about one could be used. NOK 6000 more in the year of its private economy to only fill fuel. This will be part of a Norwegian family economy. I repeat the question: is there no concern that we get this price level of fuel in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e134	I see that both the power and fuel prices can affect the family economy. However, it is also important to take into account that during the same period wages have increased quite well in Norway. One can make a lot of comparisons about this using his income for fuel or other things. And take one, for example. a comparison between 1990 and 2009, one will see that households consistently use a smaller proportion of their income, for example. to electricity and fuels today than they did in 1990. One of the areas with the highest growth is the area of culture and leisure. So I think it's important to see this in the context of the salary level and the salary increases that households have received. And if you look at how many liters of petrol you can buy per hour of work, you can buy 17.5 liters in Denmark and 17.2 in Norway, and we're far above the other countries. So there's a lot of comparisons that you can use here that show that the relative load is less than the representative that Leirstein is now highlighting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e139	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e142	There were interesting excuses from the Minister of Finance. But the truth is in any case, and the fact is in any case, that Norway spends hundreds of millions of dollars more than budgeted because of exceptionally high oil prices. At the same time, Norwegian companies, in particular transport companies, pay tens of millions more in fuel charges to the Norwegian State. You can't get away with that. This means that the state is enriching itself on behalf of Norwegian companies. The long-term consequence is that Norwegian enterprises lose competitiveness, jobs disappear, and consumers have to pay more for the goods. All losses, in other words, and despite the fact that the companies have taken the government's estimated oil price into account for their budgeted fuel expenditure. Does this make any impression on the Minister of Finance? Maybe it's the way the Minister of Finance thinks we don't need companies with unhappiness? And is it more important for the Minister of Finance to defend today's fuel charging system, as indicated in the previous answer, than it is for the Minister of Finance to defend Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e149	The competitive outlook vis-à-vis the Norwegian competitive industry is one of the main reasons for this government’s economic policy. At the bottom of it is that we have to conduct a responsible economic policy, and at the bottom of it is that we have to stick to the rule of action and the 4 pst. path. So I am not entirely convinced that the policy of the Progress Party, which involves a much higher level of expenditure and that one will scrap the rule of action, will have far greater consequences for Norwegian competitive business than changes in the fuel price. However, the competitiveness of business is one of the main concerns of government economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e154	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e157	The government has announced a comprehensive review of the fuel taxes in the State budget for 2011. The government's policy has so far been to make it significantly more expensive and significantly less predictable for consumers and businesses to choose environmentally friendly fuels. My question is therefore short and good: will the government change policy in this area in the context of the overall review of fuel taxes that have been notified and ensure that it is actually more profitable and more predictable to choose environmentally friendly alternatives in the future? And if the answer is no, how does the Council of State think it would be possible to meet the government's objective of cutting sharply in the emissions from the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e165	Now we get a much more interesting question from a completely different point of view, which probably over time means far more than fluctuating fuel prices in Norway in the short term, and that is climate and environment considerations. And that's how higher fuel prices in isolation will lead to less car use and less CO2 emissions, and it's a good development if you look at it from that angle. What I can confirm is that we are now in the middle of this review of fuel taxes that we have promised, in order to arrive at a system with greater long-term and more predictability. And I intend to present an assessment of this in connection with the 2012 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e175	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e178	The polluter pays principle is an important principle of Norwegian climate policy. It is a prerequisite for the climate agreement, and it is also important in relation to fuel taxes. Based on this polluter-pays principle, there should also be similar costs based on the amount of different sources of pollution. We are far from such a system with today's charging system. There is little predictability both for the transport industry, for those who want to invest in the development of biofuels, and for us as consumers. We have the high integration and the low integration and different rates; it's diesel, and it's petrol. I think a lot of consumers are concerned about what the government today wants us to fill in the idea if we're going to get to work and we can't take a bus, not a tram, not a train, not a bike and not a ski.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e185	It is true, as the representative says, that there are different rates of fuel charges. This is one of the challenges faced by the charging system because you are faced with different prices on different fuels. So that's one of the issues we're now going to be looking at in the context of the review of fuel taxes. There are two ways to go in order to achieve overall better climate impact. One option is to stimulate people to buy more climate friendly cars, which has led to the conversion of the one-off charge to the last few years – it has reduced the average level of emissions for new cars. The second is the price of fuel. But we will come back to this thorough review of the fees, and then we will have ample opportunity to discuss the questions that the representative raises. Until then, we have to build on the level of fees we have, and the tax decisions that Stortinget has already made.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e194	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e197	I represent Akershus, and more and more people are buying, or considering buying, electric cars. Ashes and Bærum are probably the municipalities with most electric cars. But it's clear that many have been frightened by the biodiesel business. So my question is, can the Minister of Finance reassure potential electric car buyers that the benefits we now have, and the tax exemption we now have, will continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e202	There I show to the extent that, as I said in the budget debate, in the case of electric cars, there is at least a reasonably good predictability in the short term around the level of charges. Then there are some special conditions related to electric cars – driving in collective fields, etc. – as one should look at, but we are generally concerned that people should be encouraged to use climate-friendly transport, in the form that a buyer buys cars with low emissions. In addition, it is important that we now focus, as we do by the government, on expanding the collective offer, for example. in the case of a new track Oslo-Ski, so that others can also use public transport instead of a car. Here one must build on an overall approach, so that I can promise that what the representative Tenden addresses is consideration that is important in assessing this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e207	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e210	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have all closely followed the events that are now taking place in Tunisia and Egypt, and there are events that are also closely followed by other countries in the region. In the context of the EU Summit on 4 February, it was decided to contribute to ‘a peaceful process of all available and strengthened resources’ and the Council condemns the use of violence and attempts to prevent the free flow of information. The Council has also stressed that the transition process must begin immediately, and political reform and free elections must take place that respect human rights. Among other things, Catherine Ashton has promised assistance from the EU on electoral observers to the elections that are now to take place. Perhaps even more concrete and even more interesting is the fact that the EU has signalled very clearly that they are ready to establish new partnerships with the countries of the region that are making economic and political reforms. The EU has shown a driving role in the situation that has now arisen. In my opinion, Norway has adopted a waiting-and-see attitude. In an answer to a written question I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 19 January about the events in Tunisia, the Minister for Foreign Affairs states that we will, from the Norwegian side, ‘follow developments in Tunisia carefully and continuously assess what we can best contribute to. [[...]] It would be natural to maintain close contact with the EU and assess support for pan-European initiatives’. I wonder what the Foreign Minister's assessment is of what Norway can actually contribute in terms of concrete and practical support for electoral and democratic processes in these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e223	This is a good and important question, and I can confirm that the government is following this development from hour to hour, 24 to day as it unfolds, and we see great movement. There's a connection between what we see in Tunisia and what we see in Egypt, but there's also no similarity, because the countries have their peculiar situations. I can actually answer quite briefly that question, that I think European democracies will be ready to support the democratic movement we are now seeing in North Africa. These are countries that are close to some European countries, further away from countries like Norway, but where we are served that there is stability and development and not repression on the other side of the Mediterranean. What the representative refers to is what Norway can contribute if, for example: should come to a new electoral situation in Egypt – as we hope, there are announced presidential elections, there may also be other elections as a result of the reforms. It would then be quite natural for Norway, in cooperation with European countries, to assess election observers. Point 2: We have in these countries – perhaps especially in Egypt, somewhat less in Tunisia, where we do not have diplomatic representation – a very wide network of contacts with civil society, which is now being involved in the political process, uncertain how long it will be, uncertainly how serious the rulers are in the process of dialogue. But it offers new opportunities to support these forces, just as we support democratic forces in other countries. We can do that, like Norway, and we can do it with our European partners. So I'm really coming back to the answer I gave in January about Tunisia: it's natural for Norway here to look at what several European countries can do together, beyond what Norway had to have special advantage to do itself. I can assure you that in the case of Egypt, we have a broad network of civil society that is now under discussion, from which we could benefit when openings may now be given to give them more support in the legitimate democratic activities they are now engaged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e236	To the extent that Norway can help form a broad front that supports democratic processes, Norway has to be proactive in relation to it. One of the worst things that can happen is that in these countries a vacuum of power emerges that paves the way for undemocratic forces now that very many things are at stake in the countries. Over time, Norway has been known to contribute, among other things, to the drug problem. Election observers – to fund election observers – to many countries with which we do not have such close diplomatic links, such as the United Kingdom. Azerbaijan, Moldova, Côte d'Ivoire and Kyrgyzstan. And both in the Middle East and Africa chapters in the state budgets, we have spent a good deal of money on, among other things. democracy measures. The question is, can any of these means be used specifically to support the process now taking place and on the stairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e244	The answer to this question is obviously yes. We will assess this through our embassies and in cooperation with other countries. If it comes to choice, and those choices are of such a nature that observers escape, it will be quite natural. We can get back to that. But what the representative points to is a very big challenge: the danger of the vacuum of power and the dilemmas in it. Because it is obvious that in terms of the requirements of the current management in Egypt that they must now start the transition – some think they should leave the country, they should throw the cards, and there may be many arguments in that direction, given the legitimacy of previous elections – then the dilemma that the representative points to comes up with, the vacuum of power. That is why we are also in line with the EU and the United States, saying that this must be an orderly transition. Those responsible cannot throw that responsibility away, but they must engage in genuine and credible dialogue with the democratic forces. Now, what we might see now is a kind of extraction strategy on both sides, and that means that this situation can change from day to day. We get a foreign policy debate about a few days here in the Chamber that certainly gives us the opportunity to go further on that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e251	There will be four follow-up questions – first Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e254	What happened in Tunisia happened quickly. One person stood up, heroic gasoline on himself, and in a few weeks the dictator was Ben Ali out of the country. Ben Ali also brought hundreds of millions of dollars -- maybe even more. There are very many dictators in North Africa and the Middle East who have large amounts of money on their side. What you saw in Egypt is one of the same things. People have riots, which have now led Hosni Mubarak to say that he wants to retire after over 30 years as president. We fully agree that an orderly transition is what can secure democracy and establish democracy, and no human being can doubt that there is a right to respect for human rights in a democracy. But I believe that the piece of money is actually a piece we can already signal clearly: how do we see that the money that is looted comes back to the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e263	Yes, that's a crucial question, and it bears witness that these authoritarian regimes are gradually losing the ability to follow civil society; they see themselves powerfully and positioned to steal property from the people – money. It was about the president of Tunisia bringing a lot of gold out of the country. I believe that this falls within the scope of the issue of ‘illegal cash flows’, which Norway has put on the agenda in many contexts. I now notice that Switzerland, with its secrets around the banking system, opens up for transparency to some of these people's capital. It would be natural for us to raise these questions in international contexts, that we do so in cooperation with those who will eventually gain power in the country, who should have all the interest in getting the funds back, and there can be no impunity to steal from their own country – a principle of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e268	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e271	I would like to look at the close history of promoting democracy in the Middle East, and it could also be a minefield. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs and his Department chooses to have a dialogue with the Hamas terrorist organisation, we are in the middle of the minefield. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything about what he has achieved in dialogue with Hamas? Is Hamas about to recognise Israel, to work Hamas for a Palestinian assembly, to respect fundamental human rights, to improve women's position, or is there any other visible advance to trace? What are the results of the talks with Hamas, except to undermine the Western isolation of this terrorist organization?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e276	It doesn't come as a surprise that I'm taking away many of the premises in that question. It was important for Norway to have political talks with Hamas during the efforts to form a Palestinian Assembly government, because it was the last political attempt at the foundation of President Abbas, who is democratically elected and who respects international principles, to get to a Palestinian assembly on that basis. We worked for it. I am absolutely convinced that within that movement there are also forces that will be in a different direction than the extremist. It was about sending signals that if that wing won out, there were opportunities for integration and conversations with the international community. It didn't happen, because the Palestinian Assembly government, for many reasons, collapsed. Then there are violations of democratic principles, human rights and obvious civil freedoms in many areas of the Middle East. It is not possible to point towards a single movement and to say that they are responsible for it – it may apply to the occupying and occupied, and it may apply to a split Palestinian people. We're going to be engaged and listen to those who have something to say and who are representative in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e285	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e288	I want back to the vacuum of power that can arise. We are all certain that democracy and democratic processes must be allowed to work, and that it is important that they can take over. But as we've been in the past, we know that when a regime falls, authoritarian forces can take over, and the result may well be so bad. Egypt is a neighbouring country of Israel, and they have had a peace agreement since 1979. Recently, the spokespersons of the Muslim Brotherhood have been speaking out and saying different things, among other things. to the Washington Times that the agreement should be revised. In addition to CBS News, they spread uncertainty about the entire agreement and to Iranian TV they said they had to cancel the Camp David agreements. The Foreign Minister understands that there is a fear on the Israeli side that the peace agreement may be threatened and, in worst cases, it may fall if this vacuum leads to, for example, The Muslim Brotherhood can take over power in Egypt?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e297	The answer to that is yes. I understand that Israel is experiencing uncertainty when the country with which they have peace – the great country of an Arab world, 80 million people in Egypt – is in such an uncertain phase. It's not just Israel that's worried about it, it's the whole region. But Israel, of course, follows this with especially alert eyes. So you could say, is Israel in the long term served to have regimes around it that are as unstable as authoritarian regimes are? They look omnipotent, they have all the power concentrated, comprehensive security systems – but they can tilt, and tip, as a result of an increased food price that makes a beggar run over. So in the long term, it should be in Israel's interest that there should be more democracy, more civil society, more stability. Now I don't think the Muslim brotherhood will win elections in Egypt and get an all-powerful majority, but the uncertainty is there because it's a reality that they've never been tested in free elections. It says something about the demanding balance they have, those who are going to negotiate reforms and options for elections in Egypt. But it is Israel and many others who have reason to follow this with interest and also with anxiety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e304	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e308	The left has a sister party in Egypt that has experienced massive persecution and arrests, and as the demonstrations began, the party headquarters was taken over. In order to get out of the party headquarters, people had to sign statements that they would never demonstrate. On 31 January at 10 a.m. 16 the local team goes out to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and wants Mubarak's party to be excluded from the sister parties to the Workers' Party. My question is, why is it that you can be a sister party for 30 years with a dictator, but when people start going out in the streets, you can't be a sister party anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e315	I appreciate being able to respond to the party relations of the Workers' Party here in this room, if it's of interest. Now it's like that party was suspended from the Socialist International before this question was asked. And there's a significant dilemma in many of these international compositions that you have parties that are present from the beginning, from a previous historical period, and that then evolve in a direction that is fundamentally critical of you. So the question is, when will the date come to address the question of exclusion, when can you work to keep a party responsible, when can you use the party contacts you have, the meetings you have in the organisation? Skei Grande has his own for his sister parties, we have ours for ours. When do you come to a step where you have crossed a line and the question of respect for ethical frameworks and values for membership is such that the suspension should be proposed? Well, there we are in this case. It has been similar to other batches. Some new parties come along, and that's how I think we have to work – we have to see this over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e324	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e327	To ask the Minister of Finance a question, I go back to yesterday: I understand that there was a broad body in the National Government of the Workers' Party that you will look positively at those who contribute to the business of this country, and that you will facilitate the conditions for them. I didn't hear anything about Organisation Norway, and it might have its reason. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance about the changes in the gift deduction scheme that apply from 1 January. The Tax Directorate, which is under the Ministry of Finance, has now demanded that all organisations — all of them — re-apply to be recognised as an organisation that provides a tax deduction for those who donate money to these types of organisations. It gives a lot of more bureaucracy to the organizations, and it would surprise me if it doesn't also give the Bureau of the Tax Directorate. Not enough of that, the organisations that have so far benefited from the gift allowance will not benefit from it until the Tax Directorate has approved the organisations as national. In other words, the individual taxpayer is in fact subject to tax tightening until the Norwegian authorities find it too good to recognise an organisation that has been approved many years earlier, as a result of the rules that the Tax Directorate itself now wants to introduce. In other words, you are hostile to organisations, you are hostile to those who have benefited from the tax deduction — and there is no contribution to a simpler Norway, if that is what you were concerned about. My question is, is this a grip that the government is behind and supporting?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e336	First, to recapitulate a little in the matter: this has its background in the fact that one has now extended the deduction scheme to organisations in the EEA territory as a result of what happened in connection with the question of whether the scheme in Norway had previously been in line with the EEA Agreement. We then chose, rather than tightening up, or abolishing, the Norwegian scheme to extend it to organisations in the EU area. In connection with that, we announced that certain regulatory restrictions might be necessary, precisely because one here would be able to bring in organisations that a previous one did not have, and of course organisations that one had a poor overview of. I understand the problem that the representative Syversen is now addressing. I'm going to take it with me, and then we're going to go through it and see if we can find simpler solutions to this, so that the Norwegian organisations that have benefited from the deduction scheme to this day will, of course, get as much more work as possible by getting into the extended scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e341	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance may have corrected himself by saying that it is not just an extension of the scheme; it is also a strong tightening of the scheme, namely that individual organisations are deprived of the opportunity to benefit from a gift allowance, with the scheme we have had so far, which weakens their operating base. But I am pleased that the Minister of Finance may now be going into political steps to correct the red tape and the unfairness that the Tax Directorate is about to impose on the Organisation Norway. There are two points: hundreds of organisations now have to re-apply instead of simply requesting that individual organisations confirm whether they are national or not. That's the one. And the second is that there's no tax deductions for gifts until the Tax Directorate thinks it's too good to approve them. I would like a confirmation that the government wants to put pressure on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e348	To get back to my previous answer: what has made us have to look at this, is that we have expanded the arrangement to include foreign organisations, which means that these have to be demanded. But I'm going to bring with me what the representative Syversen is now bringing up, so that we can try to find a practical, good and simple arrangement for the Norwegian organisations that were already there. At the same time, we must bear in mind that we cannot do so in a way that enables them to invoke discrimination against foreign organisations. There are some issues here that we need to think carefully about, but finding a simple and practical system is the Minister of Finance for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e355	There will be three follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e358	For the Christian People's Party, the voluntary sector is one of the important sectors of society, for it is about a number of tasks for people who want to do something for others with willing hands. The use of resources, including public crowns, on voluntary activities gives an incredible amount of money back. Giving volunteers good jobs is an investment that pays off. After all, the finance minister is busy with money, and I'm sure if you had counted on it, one would have at least found that one penny into the volunteering gives ten back. The voluntary sector must be in good shape. The last few years have seen how it has become harder for voluntary organisations to operate. First, there was an example of the Youth of the Salvation Army, which was threatened with cuts in state aid because they had a different view of life than the government. Fortunately, it was corrected. But there was a new signal later, for example. on the supply regime, which has led to the need for non-profit and voluntary organisations burning to help other people, who have been operating for many, many years, to put an end to the struggle. Now it's the gift deduction. Yesterday, at the national government meeting, the Labour Party talked a lot about letting business go more freely. What kind of tool is the government actually going to use to give the volunteer the freedom it needs to do the good work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e365	First, I fully agree that investing in the voluntary sector is important. The story of Norway is about a lot. It is also about the job done by tens of thousands of volunteers every year to improve Norway. This government, and the Workers' Party, have a strong relationship with volunteering and with organisations that make a great social effort. It has, among other things, made a significant impact, e.g.: through the Ministry of Culture's budget and through changes in VAT legislation and the VAT system, which have greatly benefited non-governmental organisations. I also agree that it should be easy for voluntary Norway to deal with public orders, rules, fees, etc. At the same time, we have to bear in mind that it's not going to be so easy that you don't relate to it. So it's a balance, but it's not the government's goal to put as many people as possible into the wheels of the voluntary organizations – rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e374	Jørund Rytman – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e378	Today, the right of deduction for gifts to certain non-governmental organisations is limited up to NOK 12 000. Why can't you increase the deduction to NOK 15 000, or maybe NOK 20 000, or NOK 100000, or, for that matter, maybe consider removing the roof? Why exactly $12,000? Is it not true that those who make the money should decide as much as possible how to use the money? Would it not be positive if contributions to voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households increased? Or is it that the Minister of Finance's clock belief that the Workers' Party and the State always know better than most people what is good purpose, makes it necessary for everything within the Workers' Party to be controlled, so that what the Workers' Party believes is socially useful, to be accommodated and the Governments of the Workers' Party should be able to sunbathe themselves in the glory of the money of others?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e383	I have read with interest a larger interview that the leader of the Progress Party has had with a foreign broadcaster, where one has put out myths, to use that expression, about how it stands in Norway. According to that interview, there is a lot of misery, including bureaucracy, regulation and little room for private initiative. It's a completely wrong picture of Norwegian society. There is a lot of room for private initiative; there is a lot of room for non-governmental organisations. In the case of a limit of NOK 12000, there is a limit that can be seen in line with other types of limits in the tax system, whether in the case of Youth Housing Savings, deductions from the union quota or other. It has to be some amount. But here, there is disagreement between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party on the amount of tax relief to be granted and the extent to which different schemes will benefit from tax advantages. It's a disagreement we have to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e390	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e393	Let me just first fully conclude to the considerations that the representative of Kjell Inge Ropstad had about the bureaucracy of non-governmental organisations. There's a big job to do. So back to the gift deduction. It's one thing that has a long history. It may be particularly Christian People's Party that has fought the matter forward, but all the bourgeois parties have stood behind and been a strong champion for this. At the same time, we know that the left-hand side has not been particularly excited about this gift deduction, to say it carefully. At the same time, I note the Minister of Finance's constructive attitude to finding good solutions. We had a good dialogue when the EEA matter was up. I would challenge the Minister of Finance to answer yes to the question whether he will ensure dialogue with the opposition also to find solutions to the issue raised by Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e402	Firstly, I am concerned that non-governmental organisations should not be confronted with more bureaucracy than is strictly necessary, so I expect that we can agree on that. Then it is that the Minister of Finance has no ideological infection in the scheme. And it's true, as the representative says, that when we were in front of the election when it was the EEA Agreement, if we were to abolish the scheme or continue it, I figured we would continue the scheme. We had a constructive and good dialogue with the opposition in that context, and I can imagine having an appropriate discussion to find out about the legislation around the now extended system of deductions, which also applies to organisations in the EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e409	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e412	Robust, efficient and good municipalities are crucial to ensure that citizens are provided with the welfare services – the basic welfare services – that they require and need. While we see the state getting richer and richer and the money running into the treasury, unfortunately the situation is quite different in the municipality of Norway. Unfortunately, many municipalities are struggling to balance the economy. We are still receiving feedback that, because of the poor economy, municipalities will be short when it comes to maintenance, and also when it comes to providing basic welfare services. We have also received reports and feedback that some people actually have to go so far that they have to move from municipality to municipality to get the services done, and get the services they need. It is now also the case that recent up-to-date figures have shown that local government debt is growing at a record pace. Last year only increased gross debt in Kommune-Noreg by 38 billion. kr, to 296 b.w. kr. That means that since the red-green government took over, and since the Senter Party took over the Ministry of Local Affairs, the municipal debt has almost doubled. This means that local authorities have more expenditure than income. Of course, there is no dangerous road. At some point it may no longer be possible. Then my question to the municipal minister is: How will she ensure that the municipalities will also be able to provide good services to the inhabitants in the future, even if we want to see a marked increase in interest rates that will increase the costs for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e421	Higher levels of debt reflect the high level of investment that the municipalities have had in recent years, which in turn reflects an optimism and an activity linked to the fact that we have a government that has seen a large increase in income for the municipalities and that is confident that this will continue. We see that the level of investment – which then has practical aspects, because we get better care for the elderly, we get better schools, and we get more kindergartens – of course also mirrors the people’s desire for better services. We have measured tolerable higher loan debt to finance better service provision. Local authorities seem to be able to charge interest and deductions on the loans they have – we see this from the number of municipalities that are now in the ROBEK register, which is at a very low level compared to previous years. We also have to take into account that not all debts are chargeable to the local government budget. Something is passed on to private households and companies, which is linked to the interest compensation scheme in which the government covers interest expenditure, and something related to so-called VAR expenditure, where the fee from the inhabitants pays the interest costs. This government has contributed to a large growth in the income of the municipalities. We do that because welfare services are important to people in their everyday lives. We will also follow closely the developments associated with the economy in the municipality of Norway, and will also in the future bet that municipalities will have an economy that will enable them both to bet their debts and to ensure that they can build what they build with the debt collection, be filled with good services and good people who can provide the inhabitants with the services they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e430	Now there are well-known tones from the municipal ministar and boast of what the government has done. Unfortunately, when you turn to Kommune-Noreg, when you turn to advisers and spokesmen in Kommune-Noreg, there's a completely different description of reality there. There are a lot of people who experience that the municipalities are simply fed economically by the government. In our 2011 alternative state budget, the Progress Party has reached 3.7 billion. kr. more for the operation of municipalities. In addition, we have been committed to a number of measures in relation to red tape and simplification, which means that municipalities will have a better economy. The fact is that for existing years the debt will increase further. Then my question is still – I didn't get an answer to it: how will it go for the municipalities if debt increases further and the municipalities get an increase in interest rates? How, then, will it be with the service provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e437	I did well for the situation in the municipalities that I think is not as dark as the representative Hagesetter makes that. We have a good dialogue with KS, and we have a good dialogue with many municipalities that we both visit and visit, and I think we have a pretty good picture of the situation. So if we were to get a high growth rate in interest rates, it would challenge the municipality of Norway as much as private companies and individual households in this country. We should also follow that situation very closely, and in good dialogue with the municipalities ensure that one also has the room for action to deal with such a situation, if he should arise. Then it's important that we have a government that's in charge of the economy, which ensures that we don't get a strong growth in interest and deductions by using disproportionately large funds, but that's what we use is in line with what the Norwegian economy can tolerate. And we have such a government today. This is perhaps the most important thing for Kommune-Noreg in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e444	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Kari Kjönnaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e448	Municipalities have the primary responsibility to ensure good services for people. But the municipalities still have to set up important tasks against each other. Last night I got a phone call from a despaired parent killer. It was child-restraint. They needed help from child protection, but they didn't get it. Last night a drug addict called me. He was in a desperate situation. I find it difficult to be put in the situation that it is not to know how to help – because it is the municipalities that are going to do it. These people say they don't get help, and they don't know where to turn. How does the government actually intend to ensure that even those who are unable to go on a torch, and those who are unable to scream, will get the help they need, when the municipality they live in, does not do their job?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e455	I want to start by saying that Norwegian municipalities do a very good job of providing good welfare services. They do it on a broad scale, from the small kids in kindergarten to the elderly – the whole life cycle. There are thousands and thousands of good people doing their very best. And then there'll be a single case around the municipalities where you can't feel being helped when someone needs it. Of course, we in the government – and I as a municipal minister – are concerned that we should make sure. It does so by having good supervisory arrangements, good regulation, and not least by having an economy that allows municipalities to add the people they need to do the job. The systems we have built up, we must build on and ensure the legal security of the individual in the individual municipality. However, guaranteeing that there will be no single case can be difficult for each municipal minister in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e462	It was to the pessimistic view of the future of the representative, which is the theme of the question, that the analysts in KS have said that with normal interest rates and normal income trends, the debt burden built up in the municipalities will have to cut by 20 billion. kr. I was on the same subject during the budgetary procedure. Then the municipal minister replied quite carelessly — it is good to have a good sense — that in recent years there has been a growth in the municipal budgets and in debt, and it is a source of optimism. The problem is that this optimism is not based on macroeconomic trends, so the question to the Council of State must be whether to do anything more than follow up, whether to do something active to prevent excessive debt build-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e467	Once this government has strengthened the municipal economy year after year beyond what is needed to meet demographic challenges, it is to give local authorities room for action to cope with growth in service provision. At the same time, I have said from this and other speakers that it is important – not least I say it to the municipalities when I meet them – that the municipalities are housed with the income they have. The municipality has an independent responsibility to adapt its operations to the frames they have at any time. They also had that when the Right sat with the Minister of Municipalities and there were not so liberal times and the number of ROBEK municipalities grew significantly. Leave it alone. It is important for me to say that this government is prepared to continue to strengthen the municipal sector in the future. But it will never exempt the municipalities from the obligation they have to adapt their frameworks, so that the investor one has does not become so large that he frames the provision of services to the elephants, the elderly and the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e476	I was very happy when I saw that it was the municipal minister who came to the Questionnaire today. I am a little out traveling, I too, and visiting both rapporteurs and advisers. There is one question I often encounter, and it is: What happens to the interaction reform? Compared to the local economy, this will have quite significant consequences. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the allocation of tasks: what should be in the specialist health service, what should be in the municipalities, and not least in the financial sector? There are questions you ask yourself out there, and you have not received a clear answer. This is a reform that will soon be implemented. I don't have very good answers to give them, because I don't know that much, neither. But I'm sure the Secretary of State knows that. What will she say to Kommune-Norway now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e485	Yes, the Minister of State knows a good deal about the Reform of Cooperation, and some of them have become aware of the local authorities through the hearings that have now been, where a very clear direction is being put on the reform. So the government is going to come to the Storting with the different areas collecting. There will also be an opportunity for the representative, Mr Bekkewold, and all representatives in Stortinget to get a closer look at the details. Of course, I can't stand here today on behalf of the government and present them, but just say: This is a very important reform, not least for Kommune-Noreg. There is an important reform for citizens to draw closer to more health services and greater emphasis is placed on prevention. Of course, the government will ensure that municipalities are equivalent negotiating parties to healthcare professionals — or perhaps we will use the word ‘partners’. It's important that we get that cooperation. And the finances of the municipalities need to be secured, so that those services are provided in a good way. Unfortunately, I cannot be more specific today, but I will come back with the concrete thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e501	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e504	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Let me first say that the Right is very happy that the government now finally recognizes the municipalities as the main actor in order to improve the situation of the children in child protection. Unfortunately, municipal child protection is not currently capable of providing all children with a disability, the assistance they are entitled to. Let me give you some examples from this week: we get reports that many cases are being resolved due to too little capacity. One of four municipalities does not have emergency preparedness for child protection. We now see that municipalities have applied for 674 new posts, while this year's budget covers only about half of these posts. I hope the Council of State agrees with me that more resources are not the only answer to the crisis that is now being experienced in municipal child protection. At least as important are the competent child protection workers out in the municipalities. Unfortunately, the government's unilateral focus on child protection has led many of the municipalities to become dusty for child protection, while we see that the state child protection bureaucracy has increased by over 50 pst. in a few years. Does the Council of State support the proposal of the Right to move resources from the State Children's Protection Bureau to the municipalities where the children live?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e517	The question goes far into a subject area of another State Council. But anyway, I want to respond to a slightly more superior plan. First of all, I think we can tell some that there are major challenges to child protection, and that the government has both recognized and taken care of, among other things. through additional permissions and ear-marked permissions in 2011. One also goes in and sees how the money is used, and it's just as important as allowing resources. I agree with that. It's not just about resources, it's also about how to organise the services. On a general basis, the municipal minister will always be very positive about moving services and responsibilities from state to municipality. On a general basis, I think that the municipality is best placed to make the choices that provide the best services – and the most efficient use of resources – to the inhabitants of the municipality. So on the general level, I can support Right's thoughts about it. I also know that the Council of State is open to make assessments of it, but that one of course has to go in and look at how the funds are used, and how one organizes the services today. It's a job that I'm open to doing, to assess whether the reorganization that's been done is for the benefit of the kids that it's going to be, because it's their best we have to keep in mind the whole way. The system, the organisation will be subdued. This is intended to serve the services we need to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e526	I'm very pleased with the answer. I am very pleased that the government and the Council of State go away from the idea of pouring money into the child protection bureaucracy, which does not benefit the kids. When I get good signals here from the Council of State, I also want to ask something. We know that many municipalities want a more comprehensive responsibility for child protection, because today the responsibility is powdered. There is no one who ultimately takes responsibility for the young people who are not receiving help. The chairmanship of the municipality of Haugesund has unanimously decided that they want to take full responsibility for the protection of children, as the municipality of Trondheim had in the past. How will the Council of State deal with applications from municipalities that want to take full responsibility for the children so that they can discover them at an earlier stage, follow them up and tailor an offer for the individual child in their municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e533	As the Council of State stated in its first reply, the professional responsibility for the area of child protection lies with another Council of State. But without a doubt, it affects the municipal sector to a great extent, so that it gets up to the Council of State even to the extent that she wants to answer the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e537	I thought that this question was very specific about what could be a matter for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. In this way, it would be very difficult for me to give an answer, or suggest an answer, to a question where I have not seen the application, and which is not in my department either. So I have to stick to the general one, as I said in my previous answer. On a general basis, I thought that the municipalities would like to have a holistic responsibility for their tasks. But here we have a division of labour that the Storting has laid down, and if it is to be changed, there must also be an explanation of what is being attached to the Storing. If the Minister for Children and Gender Equality would be in favour of a trial project, an additional trial project, as well as what one had in Trondheim, I can't comment on here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e544	There will be follow-up questions – Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e547	There was an interesting exchange of views here. We can also contribute some up-to-date research results, namely that Fafo has had the child protection bureaucracies under the umbrella and that the state child protection system is perceived as heavy-duty, overarching and bureaucratic, and that is their word, not mine. The number of employees has increased correctly, but the responsibility has been shared through this government service, which has increased bureaucracy and less follow-up to users. I consider the Council of State's response to be partly satisfactory, and it may be promising that you are willing to consider it. In previous answers here today, we should only follow developments, and that is, of course, parliamentary in order not to do anything. But considering there's a certain hope in it. So my question to the Council of State is, When will the Storting meet a suggestion to do about a bad organization, which we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e556	As I said in my previous answer, my answer must be on a general basis and not on a level of detail that came to another state council. So I can't answer that specific question. I just want to say that as a municipal minister, I am very open to addressing the issues arising from research reports and input that we also received from Kommune-Noreg. That's my starting point here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e561	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e573	There are some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is moved and answered at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire. Question 16, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e586	The first question to be answered is question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e593	The question is simple, at least in simple terms: ‘Does the government consider Hamas to be a terrorist organisation or not?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e600	If the representative asks for a legally binding categorisation of Hamas as a terrorist organisation, the answer must be that we do not set such labels. As the representative is aware, Norway has not established a list of movements and organisations likely to organise terrorist acts. Neither does the UN have such a list, in addition to the Security Council's list of sanctions against the Taliban and Al Qaida, which we are obliged to follow. In addition to this, I believe we should be careful to put the label ‘terrorist organisation’ on organisations, if it is to have a legal opinion. Looking at the story, we find that a large number of organisations in their past – and present – have committed acts that we could call acts of terrorism, and that we have distanced ourselves from, but for that reason we have not defined the organisation as a terrorist organisation. The question is, what does the definition lead to? What do we put in such a state? Many organisations can have many labels — political, religious, social, military, armed — without using one or the other label as a legally meaningful categorisation. Let me say that the government takes a sharp distance from any act of terror, regardless of who's behind it. Anyone involved in the conduct of acts of terrorism must be held legally accountable, irrespective of the political, ideological, religious or other grounds on which it is based. Specific measures have also been taken to combat international terrorism. These are firmly anchored in a number of binding decisions of the UN Security Council, including Resolution 1373 of September 2001. This is essential for our obligations to combat international terrorism in accordance with Norwegian law and relevant international obligations, including the prohibition of terrorist financing. Hamas has assumed responsibility for several attacks on civilians, including suicide. The question of whether the organisation or movement is considered to be responsible for terrorist acts should not be decisive in determining what kind of contact the government might have with such a grouping. For example, both the previous government and the current government conducted dialogue with LTTE in Sri Lanka when others thought they could not be talked to because they were on the EU terrorist list. Our aim was and is not to have dialogue in itself, but to contribute to less violence and peaceful development. We took, as I said, a clear distance from many of LTTE's actions that could be grouped as acts of terrorism. The challenge of political dialogue arises in the face of actors engaged in terrorist acts and facing outside the international community and normal political relations. Hamas is today in such a category. But I don't think it's wise to cut off the possibility of dialogue at all. Norway maintains the view that Hamas must comply with the international community’s requirement to recognise Israel’s right to exist, refrain from the use of violence and respect concluded agreements. At the same time, it is Norwegian policy to be in dialogue with all parties in the Middle East. That's how it's been for many years. This contact is to be used to be unambiguous and uncompromising in our anchoring in universal values and norms and our resistance to any action that might be called acts of terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e624	I thank you for the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and note that he does not want to label this organisation or anyone else, but is more concerned about the actions carried out by that organisation. This contrasts slightly with the way the EU, the United States, Australia and Japan, for example, look at the organisation and define it. I'll take that for information. So the Foreign Minister spoke about contact with Hamas. I quote now what the top leader of Hamas, Khaled Meshahl, said to TV on 27 January 2011, that Norway’s position is different from the European and Western countries both in the Palestinian cause in general and Hamas in particular. We appreciate that. Therefore, a relationship has emerged between us and Norway. We want to develop the relationship, meet with responsible politicians on the clear recognition of Hamas. Is this a description – which is comprehensive according to Khaled Meshahl – that the Minister of Foreign Affairs shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e633	No, I don't think that's it. Here he speaks for himself. What is correct is that there is a slightly different relationship in the dialogue between us and Hamas and what is referred to by the EU and the United States. That being said, the representative will have learned that there is a flow of American delegations to Damascus, of senators and other missionaries, who are listening and communicating messages. I think that's wise, and they go in many channels. Similarly, there is a flow of European delegations from European capitals to Damascus and elsewhere to have that kind of contact. This Hamas leader’s wish for Norway’s recognition can be rejected unequivocally. Norway does not recognise movements, we recognise states. The fact that we have a dialogue that makes it possible to communicate messages, understand what is moving in the thinking of a representative and important actor, we think we are wise, and we will continue to do so. That he wants to describe it that way, he gets to stand for his own account and maybe be an expression that there's a movement that feels isolated. There's a lot of good reasons for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e644	I also noticed in the spontaneous Question Time that the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about different actors and their important role in what is happening in the Middle East. I guess I have to say that in the case of Hamas, there's a reason to place that organization in a slightly different category than most of the others. I will now refer from the Charter, Article 22. This is from 1988, so there's no ancient charter. It is said that the French revolution, the Russian revolution, the colonization and both world wars were created by Zionist Jews. World War II must have been launched by Jews as a pretext for forming the State of Israel. There is not one war anywhere without the Jews having a finger in the game. The UN was also created by Jews, according to Hamas. There were Jews who laid the foundations of the United Nations and the Security Council to enable them to rule the world. All of this is from Article 22. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that we have a problem in getting a peace process started?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e653	The answer is simple. The answer is yes. That was also the reason why, when Hamas was in government alone in the Middle East and the charter was in place, Norway could not be in contact with that government. We cut all the transfer of funds to the Palestinian self-government authorities. In contrast, when it was about making a fundraiser on the basis of President Abbas, we had a completely different situation. I would also like to remind you that for many years the PLO had formulations on Israel which I would call totally unacceptable, but where negotiations, contacts, were going on, with a view to a peace agreement. At the moment the Oslo peace agreement was signed, there were still formulations in PLO's various charters that would clearly be on the outside of what we think is acceptable. All that the representative here refers to, I'm taking a great distance from. We do it in international contexts, and those who are responsible in this organization are also very aware of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e664	So we go to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e671	There is a question for the Minister of Knowledge, which reads as follows: ‘Running notification — Objectives and strategy plan for vocational and vocational training in Hordaland’ shows that the county sometimes feels that the recognition of apprenticeships is difficult to implement, because there are not clear enough eligibility criteria or guidelines in the Training Act. Nor has the Education Directorate given clear signals, and practices therefore vary between counties, which impede cross-border cooperation. Will the State Council take the initiative on a clearer regulatory framework for apprentices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e680	The conditions for the recognition of apprenticeships are laid down in the Training Act and its corresponding regulations. The Training Act states that educational establishments must be approved by the county authorities. This implies that the county council must assess whether the enterprise complies with the requirements of law and regulations for educational establishments. Essentially, the enterprise must be such an establishment and have the necessary equipment to provide training that meets the requirements of the curriculum. Cooperative enterprises must demonstrate that overall they will be able to provide such training. These include: also requirements for professional managers and trainers in the apprenticeships. Before the county can approve a apprenticeship, the enterprise must be professionally assessed by the vocational training student. The Training Act states that the county council should place a decisive emphasis on the professional assessment of the vocational training student before final decision is taken. The wide-ranging vocational training programme will be well equipped to carry out such professional assessments. It has not been desirable to replace such a local, professional assessment with a more detailed law. The county council is responsible for higher education and is the closest to assessing whether a concrete enterprise meets the requirements to provide training in accordance with the academic competence objectives of the curriculum. It is the county municipality where the educational establishment is located that has to grant approval. If the holding has premises in several counties, the location of the compartment in question shall determine the county which shall approve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e693	I thank you for your answer. I probably felt that it was not a very concrete answer to my question, which is based on the fact that a county council – I know that this is also a problem in a number of other county councils, because it is discussed between these counties – assesses the legislation for approval as very diffuse, as one has said to me, and that clearer guidelines had made it easier, among other things. in the case of counties, to follow the same policy of approval. In the case of Hordaland, the county reports on several educational establishments in the border area between Hordaland and Rogaland, which have apprentices from both counties, and where companies complain that different demands are made and different questions are asked from the two counties. They see it as a problem. So the question remains whether it is that the Council of State sees that there may be a need to come up with new guidelines, among other things. to follow up the new curricula following the promise of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e702	First of all, I want to give Hordaland county council credit because they're working well to get enough apprenticeships, and they've been very successful. When we compare Hordaland to other states, it's a state that's really on the verge of learning places. It is of great importance for the implementation of secondary education. In 2005, the Ministry of Knowledge set up a group to review the rules on vocational and vocational training. The Group proposed changes to simplify legislation and to adapt it to the needs in this area. The rules we have today are in line with what was proposed at the time. Municipalities may not impose any requirements other than those set out in the law. No additional requirements may be imposed for the approval, which would allow the requirements to vary between counties. We have a Cooperation Council for Vocational Training. The issue raised by the representative here has not, as far as I am aware, been raised as a subject in this Council. But here's a lot of competence, with experience from different parts of this field. I can mention the issue raised by the representative, and discuss with them whether there is a problem around when it comes to cooperation with the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e713	I think such a discussion will be welcomed by many of those who work in this field. Of course, I fully agree that the county council is doing a great deal of work in relation to apprentices. They have, as far as I remember, approx. 3000 apprentices in turn at all times. It also means that there are relatively large sums going through the system of grants to enterprises. It would be natural for firms to be clearly required in view of the problems of non-response and the quality of education and training. Businesses will also be well served. I can give the Council of State one concrete example of that. It is this requirement of the professional director, to which the Council of State also referred in the answer. What is contained in that concept, what requirements are to be made to the professional manager, are very diffuse for those who are going to work on this. There was a 1995 circular that said something about this. The Education Directorate has now confirmed, on direct questions from the County Municipality of Hordaland, that this circular is to be disregarded. It has gone away, but there are no new requirements. Is there something like this? Can you get arrested?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e722	I think it's very important that we find the good mix between central government and local customization in this regard, because the knowledge that the county councils have of the companies that are educational establishments is crucial in terms of recognition, and in terms of follow-up of the apprentices. But let me raise this question the next time I meet the Cooperation Council for Vocational Training, because there is a wide range of competence, and they have experience in many fields and from different states. So we can see how big this problem is, and maybe find a slightly different balance. I am concerned that they have room for action locally, because we depend on having good cooperation with the companies that provide apprenticeships. Then we have to make sure that we don't have any central rules that work the opposite way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e735	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The provision by the State of continuing education — EVU — by teachers through the purchase of places of study at some educational institutions seems unnecessarily cost-effective for many counties and municipalities. At present, Trom County does not have any EVU sites at the University of Tromsø, and significant funds are being lost in travel and residence. The Trom County Municipality now wants to cooperate with the University of Tromsø on the EVU for teachers from the autumn of 2011 and needs urgent clarification. Will the Council of State support and facilitate such provision of continuing training in Tromsø?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e744	The representative Aspaker points out that the municipality of Trom wants to cooperate with the University of Tromsø on continuing training, i.e. continuing training, for teachers from the autumn of 2011. I assume that the Trom County Council has ongoing cooperation with universities and colleges in its state of school development and continuing education for the individual teacher. The provision provided by State-funded continuing education is intended as an addition to the work the school owner develops in his or her schools, and the continuing education provided by the school owner facilitates and develops in cooperation with colleges and universities in its own country. The strategy is established in partnership with the KS, the school leaders’ and teachers’ organisations, the National Council for Teacher Education and the Ministry of Knowledge. The start was autumn 2009, so the current academic year is the second year of this scheme. Rambøll’s analysis of the scheme from July 2010 shows a very positive assessment of the professional profits of the participants. It shows that high-quality offers have been developed by universities and colleges, and teachers who are given the opportunity to participate achieve formal competence, with 30 and 60 credits in the subject, respectively. Of course, it is an objective that the scheme should serve as a positive and qualitatively good grant for school owners in their efforts to develop competence in the colleges of teachers. It is therefore important to record that the proposal received by the Ministry of Knowledge from the Municipality of Troms, and that the representative of Aspaker now brings to Stortinget. The Directorate of Education and the Ministry of Knowledge, in cooperation with the parties, has amended the search system and provided regional cooperation in the newly established teacher training institutions to help reduce the distance from the place of study and thereby the timing of travel and subsistence expenses, even though the scheme is national and allows applications for studies and study places throughout the country, irrespective of the municipality of residence. In the long term, it is foreseen that all disciplines and disciplines given priority in the strategy will be offered in each of the six teacher-training regions. It will necessarily take some more time before it is in place, but changes are made to bring it about. For example, a new study offer has now been announced in chemistry 1 at the University of Tromsø from autumn 2011. It is understandable that the municipality of Troms wishes to avoid extensive travel and time use for the use of university and higher education places in other parts of the country, if it is possible to develop studies in accordance with the needs of its own region. Just to meet local needs, there is an opportunity to use places of study other than state-owned open-ended study places within the framework of 2,500 students on a national basis. School owners wishing to take advantage of study places other than those allocated by the scheme, usually study places developed in cooperation between school owners and universities and universities in their own country, can do so as part of this continuing training scheme and receive state support for temporary employment costs. Expenditure on study fees will then also be covered by the State funds. The allocation of continuing education to these types of places of study is subject to the school owner and/or the teacher himself providing a place of study. Hopefully this will meet the need described by the County of Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e766	I'm not impressed with the answer. What has happened after the municipality of Troms sent a letter to the department is that also Nordland and Finnmark county councils have now come behind the desire to develop an offer in Troms. I get a little information when I read the 2011 study catalogue. This strategy for continuing training includes: ‘The school owner shall cover any expenses relating to travel, residence and learning material.’ Then I ask what kind of reality you live in in the directorate, because most municipalities and counties have a lot of costs. Finnmark County actually informed that they have paid NOK 227 000 in travel expenses for continuing training for seven teachers. This means that large amounts of money actually go to SAS and onions instead of continuing training. So I appeal again to the Council of State to show greater flexibility in where these educations are to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e780	I refer to the answer I just gave, which shows that there is considerable flexibility in this arrangement. It is also the case that we are dealing with an agreement between different parties to ensure that there is formal study competence that is the objective of the provision of further training that comes. I refer to that answer, and I am absolutely sure that Troms, Finnmark and Nordland county municipalities can find flexibility within the offer that now exists, and then we're going to go all the way to make it even more flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e785	The big question is: if these three county municipalities – I get to use them as an example now – enter into an agreement with the country's oldest teacher education, at the University of Tromsø, which had an anniversary and celebrated it recently, does that mean that money is involved in buying these places, or is that money already spent in the state purchase of study places elsewhere? If it does not follow funds to the new places of study that Troms, Nordland and Finnmark counties will agree with the University about, it just means that the state scheme is not a scheme that benefits them in the same way as for county municipalities elsewhere in the country, which have a shorter path to their education services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e790	Agreements have been reached on the 2 500 places of study which are now part of the State supply of continuing education and training, and the various educational institutions have negotiated how this is to be done. But I refer to my answer, and it says, ‘Just to meet local needs, there is an opportunity to use places of study other than state-owned open-ended places of study in the framework of 2,500 students on a national basis. School owners wishing to use study places other than those allocated by the scheme may do so as part of this continuing training scheme and receive state support for temporary employment costs.’;» [[...]] It should meet some of what Trom County has reported.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e806	I ask the Minister for Knowledge the following questions: ‘The county office is subject to constant requests for the recognition of diplomas obtained abroad. Employers would like to have this in order to be sure of their competence. The former system of approval of the county has been repealed, but in 2007 the Directorate of Education was commissioned to assess the need for a State education authority to recognise foreign vocational training. The survey was due in September 2008. In the light of constant demands, will the Council of State now produce a result of this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e815	There is no general obligation for persons with foreign vocational training to have this approved before they can work in Norway. For certain professions where exercise is regulated by the authorities, e.g. However, in the field of electrical, aviation and health, such approval is required. These approvals are granted by authorities other than the State education authorities. It is true that for the pursuit of non-regulated professions it is also from time to other demand for a State authorisation. Such wishes come from both non-resident professionals and employers in such professions. In the old Vocational Training Act, it was a provision that approval related to such applications should be granted by the county councillors, but these approvals were not binding on employers. The Training Act does not currently provide that State education authorities may issue neither binding nor voluntary recognition of foreign professional competence. This means that the Ministry does not have the authority to impose such a task on the county councillors. In the so-called non-regulated professions, the employer himself determines the competence he will attach to an addition. This is the background to the Ministry’s request in November 2007 to the Education Directorate to assess the need for future recognition by government education authorities of foreign vocational training in non-regulated professions. The Directorate proposed in 2009 that such an authorisation system be included in the legislation. However, the Directorate pointed out that such a scheme could become superfluous in the future because of the ongoing work on drawing up national descriptors for professional and professional competence that could be related to the European Qualifications Framework for Education. In my opinion, such a framework for the comparison of cross-country education will facilitate the work of mutual recognition and may largely render a specific recognition system unnecessary. In this context, I have decided not to introduce a national authorisation system until now. This has also contributed to the fact that the establishment of a permanent authorisation system will have both significant administrative and economic consequences. We should therefore be relatively sure that such a scheme will be appropriate for more than a few years. However, we will review the issue when the national Qualifications Framework is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e826	I thank you for the answer, and record that the Council of State is really saying no, this will not be taken into account now. It hasn't been very long since a letter went out from the Education Directorate, it was in June six months ago, where one said that now it's working on this on a central level, almost in a sentence where a perceived thing was going to happen. So today the county can choose to help people who ask or don't ask. The county councils do the same thing. Some people help, some give advice, some say they don't have anything to do with this, and there's a pretty unsustainable situation. It's probably not, after the feedback I get, just from time to time it's enquiries. There are quite a number of enquiries. It is the labour force we need, and I understand that the workers are insecure. How long does the Council of State think it's before we can have an overall set-up at this international level?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e833	We are now working on how to adapt to the European Qualifications Framework for Education, which is also going to run counter to these issues. I hope that during this year we can have a much better overview at least of what kind of form we can figure it out. The extent of the enquiries we're talking about here is between approx. 50 and 100 things a year for the whole country. There may be more people who think they might need this, but it is therefore fully possible for local education authorities, including the county councillors, to help those who ask for it. I know that the Right agrees with the SV that building up unnecessary bureaucracy we should not do outlaws, at least – I don't know if we are going to build unnecessary bureaucracy at all! But at least I think it is wise, when we know that there is a major European cooperation going on here, that we are trying to coordinate the job to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e842	Now it was tempting to change the direction of the follow-up question, but I will stick to the original case. We agree that we should not build up bureaucracy that we do not need, but I expect these 50-100 numbers are from the survey that was carried out in 2008, and we are asked whether this has changed anything. What is my point in any case is that the Council of State – I hope – has an eye on and a little bit of pressure that this happens as soon as possible, because in the meantime, there are people who may be here, who don't come into work and become a burden to us on the other side. It's a personal defeat, too. And there may be people who don't come, who we just need, because they hear that this is so hard to figure out. That's not what we're supposed to do as a society. I also know that the Council of State agrees with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e849	I think we can gather into a higher form of consensus on this issue. We're not served with unnecessary bureaucracy, but we're served to get good arrangements for the recognition of different types of competence. I will follow closely that we keep pace with the European Qualifications Framework and design it in the best possible way. However, if there is a need for additional measures, we would rather get back to the necessary bureaucratic arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e863	Now the topic was unnecessary bureaucracy, so it might be good to ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In two different construction cases in Ringsacht, the county has recently tried municipal building permits. This is interference with local self-government. The county council's complaint is justified in one case with the cultural landscape, a highway and that the county road to the area is a dangerous school road — despite the fact that accidents have barely been recorded. The intervention of the county council in the local decisions is questionable, and the justification will strongly centralise Norwegian municipalities. Does the State Council support the county's complaint and intervention in matters?»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e872	The questions asked by the representative Gundersen are related to concrete construction matters that are still being dealt with in the municipality of Ringsach. I therefore note that in the following I can only express myself on a general basis, as it is not desirable to intervene in the municipal building management. The cases may ultimately end at the department's table as a matter of complaint or conversion. The county council has been prepared as state governing authority according to the planning and building laws. Three situations can be envisaged in which the county is involved in a construction project, according to the laws of the planning and building industry: Complaints on municipal proceedings or individual decisions under administrative law § 28. The county has been authorised to handle complaints under the laws of the planning and building industry, cf. Planning and building law § 1-9 last paragraph. The county councillors are granted their own right of appeal in construction cases in areas where the county council has been added to the sector image according to the planning and building law § 1-9 third paragraph. The Court of Appeal applies, for example, to: where pollution, nature protection and outdoor interests are not adequately addressed. If the complaint is not signed by the municipality, a match match match will be created that can determine the case. In cases of dispensation, government powers directly attached to the case shall be given an alert and the right to express themselves in accordance with § 19-1 of the Planning and Building Act. The case shall then be decided by the municipality, which shall consider whether the opinion of a State Governing Body is to be followed, or whether the proceedings shall be sent to the superior Board of Appeal. The municipal exercise of discretion under the law is thus subordinate to the State Governing Authority, but the county has to pay particular attention to the concerns of municipal self-government, cf. delegation circular from the Ministry of Environment. This would be relevant where the municipality has specific local knowledge, or where local political or expert conditions give it a special local anchoring. Nevertheless, it is important that a complaint is made by the county council so that one is sure that the instructions of the law on the construction and construction are properly enforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e891	I thank you for your answer. But I had a very simple question, and it was: Does the State Council support the county council's complaint and intervention in matters? You can answer that, even if the things go locally. Because there are some pretty dramatic signals the countyman sends in his complaint. One thing is that the complaint came too late. In all other contexts it probably had not been taken into account at all or had been treated. But the countyman uses, as a reason, a road on which there are no accidents, and that the site is only accessible by car, because it is not public transport. Ringing stuff is one of the more widely populated municipalities in the country. If this is going to apply to the county, I dare say that we are going to experience enormous centralisation in Norway. It must be a paradox for both the Red-Green Government and the Sitting Council. Therefore, the question is: is intervention supported in such a case when local democracy has made a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e896	Of course, I'm busy with municipal self-government and I'm also busy not getting a start on issues that seem centralizing. When I still cannot answer the question, it is because that question can come to my table. If I had today given an answer to the representative, Gundersen, it would mean that the matter would have to be transferred to a Council of State. That situation I do not want to put myself in, because there is no indication to know what the end of this procedure is. That is why I have to stick to the gambler and unfortunately cannot be more clear in my answer than what I have said on a general basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e903	We had a little delay in the previous question of unnecessary bureaucracy. I believe this is a totally unnecessary procedure. I had really hoped that the Council of State would have done this job and said that we should not have such a procedure. The Countess is on the move to stand up as an over-judge to local democracy. Ringing stuff is a responsible municipality that knows how to handle this. The entire political spectrum of Ringsakes has distanced itself from the state's argument. In fact, if we are to believe in local self-government, an institution that the county has to comply with local priorities. I had really hoped that the Council of State would have made that very decision. In Sweden, when the centralisation wave came in the 1960s and 1970s, they had something called the Labour Market Board, i.e. the AMS. It was called ‘all have to go south’ in Sweden. In Norway, we may be able to rebaptise it as ‘all have to be centralised’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e910	Fortunately, I am a state council member in a government that works intensively for the opposite of centralization. We are also working to reduce red tape — especially unnecessary bureaucracy. I'm not in agreement with those who say that all the bureaucracy is wrong. Something is very good, and we need it for the country to have a good administration. But those who are in the different positions must be conscious of their position. I haven't gone into these two things, because we've put the game rules that I really think the representative Gundersen agrees that we should have. That is why I refrain, even though it is always tempting to go into individual matters and think strongly about them. I still have to stand on what I have said, but I am very clear that the local self-government and the municipalities' independent duty to make important decisions for their people is to be emphasised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e923	‘In the autumn of 2010, the Arnstad Committee presented its report entitled ‘Energy efficiency improvement of barley’. The report contains concrete proposals on how to save 10 TWh and 40 TWh by 2020 in the construction sector by 2040. The sample points to different measures that need to be put in place to achieve these savings. How will the Council of State follow up the concrete proposals proposed by the Arnstad Committee in addition to the consultation process carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e930	It is an interesting report we have received from the Arnstad Group, and we have been presented with many good actions that need to be reconsidered. The group believes it could be possible to reduce energy consumption in the sector by 10 TWh by 2020 and 40 TWh by 2040. The working group, which was composed of people with a background in and a good knowledge of the construction industry, has a good professional understanding of what is possible in the construction sector. They have been satisfied that such a goal can be achieved. It was not within the group’s mandate to eliminate the wider socio-economic impact of the proposals they have submitted. This job is now started in the department. This must be the first step to see how we can proceed with many of the suggestions. I record that the painting of the Arnstad selection leads us to set up for the construction sector, is in line with the EU's target seen through the revised Building Energy Directive. The consequences for Norwegian construction companies and for builders can be relatively extensive. Even if many people are impatient, we also need to take the time to get the consequences out and look at what will be best to achieve the goal. We should make sure that new requirements that are introduced and measures that are put in place are of quality, not of urgency. But we can start with something right away, for example. to facilitate the development of better competence in energy efficiency in the industry, record experience with imagery projects, work to obtain better statistics, etc. We have also started to work to improve the requirements of the construction regulations. But other issues are so intrusive in the construction industry that I want to take them up for discussion in the forthcoming big business message about the building policy that the government will present to the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e941	They say 40 pst. of all energy is used in barley. In Norway, there is a lot of clean energy, because we have a lot of renewables. But we have a goal here in the Great Britain that we're going to be an even more renewable society. We're going to phase out the fossil energy, because it should out. But we're also going to use clean energy in the right places. Then the construction sector is an important area, since 40 pst. energy is used in barley. One of the measures identified by the Arnstad Committee is a financial subsidy scheme that will provide more people with work, more VAT, greater tax access to municipalities and also less energy use. The Council of State now said that we should not be in a hurry, but that we should ensure the quality of the various instruments. And that's what you're doing. But it is true that this sector is impatient, and those who are involved in climate change are also impatient. When will the concrete proposals be brought into line with this, not just what is pointed out in a communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e948	There is, of course, a wide range of measures recommended in the report. One of them is an economic incentive, and it's estimated at 2 billion. kr that must be needed to achieve the goal you have set. That's a budgetary question. So this is going to be a question that the government will have to come back to in the individual budget. I believe that giving good incentives – whether it is economic or otherwise – and of course getting good results to show that the individual will save in his own economy by getting good climate solutions for his dwelling or for his commercial building, or for public building, for that matter, has a great effect. So looking at the social economy in the various measures is an important step forward in order to prepare matters for any budget proposals later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e953	I'm glad that the Council of State places emphasis on the socio-economic, because I think we have something important in relation to the grant scheme that the Arnstad Committee points to. The Council of State says this is a budgetary question, and I am aware of that. But at the same time, with green certificates introduced in 2012, Enova needs to have a new role. We actually have the money there already if the government keeps the level of funding for Enova, but redefines Enova's task in relation to creating such a building program, which will result in more people working, more tax access, better energy and better energy use in our houses. Is this a matter that the government will discuss in view of seeing the Arnstad Committee, Enova and green certificates as a golden triangle?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e960	"A golden triangle" sounds really nice. There's no doubt that Enova is an important keyword in the discussion that we now have. In 2010 it is set at 125 million. kr is available for energy efficiency improvement through Enova, and part of this is just through the Energy Fund and its return. That's the direct charge that goes in 2010. I'm busy having a thorough review of Enova's future role when green certificates are in place. It has been given a mandate. The government has said that we should have such a review, and in those discussions, of course, this question is at home. What will be the most important tasks for Enova? I think that precisely energy efficiency is an area where Enova has great potential to do a very good job for the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e967	Question 6 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e974	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In the evening post on 1 February, there are uncertainties and delays in many railway projects. This is very alarming in the light of the technical report that confirms what the Left for a long time has said, that it is urgent to put in place high-value collective solutions in and around the big cities. The Minister for Transport has stated that in the forthcoming national transport plan, we must make tougher priorities, lift rail and collective action, and focus on intercity trains. Can the Council of State promise faster progress of railway projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e988	I can promise the representative Tenden that I will do what I can to make sure that the annual train ride licenses are used as effectively as possible for the benefit of the railway and the travellers. When it comes to the Aftenpost on delays in many railway projects that are priorityed in NTP 2010–2019, I will refer to the 2011 budget proposal, where it is stated that the Stortinget’s treatment of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 made changes in relation to the planned revenue base of the government’s plan proposal. The majority of Storting went, among others: in order to be assessed to adapt the planned extension of the IC routes to a speed of 250 kilometres per hour or more. The size has then concluded that a more coherent extension of Holm–Holmestrand–Nykkerke on the Vestfoldbahn is being carried out, which is now being undertaken as a coherent project. Besides, double tracks are built to adapt a dimensional velocity of 250 kilometers per hour. It is also assessed whether the Farriseidet-Porsgrund should be expanded with double tracks to accommodate 250 kilometres per hour instead of single tracks. As reported in the 2011 State Budget, the priority of the maintenance of the network together with a required resource situation in the Railway Agency, including: lack of key competences within the signalling area, led some of the priority investment projects to slightly change plan progress compared to the original NTP 2010–2019. I'm following the situation carefully. I am thus not aware of any deviations in progress beyond what has been reported in the State budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e999	According to the railway station's calculations, 35-40 pst. by the new passengers of the intercity route are people who would otherwise have traveled by car. This would bring significant environmental benefits. The left wants a more complete expansion of the intercity triangle, and not a clandestine expansion, like what we experience is happening now. Again, we are concerned about the progress seen in the light of the current technical report. What thoughts does the Minister for Transport attach to the pace of the intercity triangle in concrete terms, based on the technical report that they consider to be very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1008	I share with the Left my wish for the most coherent expansion possible. I guess Left is very happy that the railroad runs have increased after we took over the department, actually from a Left State Council. We've increased the budget by 67 pst. to the Railway Station. And so on, the Railway Agency is asked for a separate arrangement to apply to the intercity triangle. I expect that we will receive more comprehensive answers, more informed answers, both in terms of time and costs. This report will form the basis for the roll-out of NTP, that is, the roll-out message that we are planning in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1015	I thank you again for the answer. The left has also increased its appropriations, and most governments do. In light of the money we have, the left has also taken it over. So that's where we agree. We have actually spent more money in our alternative budgets than the government has provided. I want to go a little bit on public transport. In all its alternative budgets, the Left has significantly raised public transport. Among other things, we have created a separate post on the state budget for the planning, investment and operation of public transport in the major cities – the road to Fornebu, the urban railway in Bergen and Stavanger, the track to Aarhus. These are demanding projects that cities cannot finance themselves. This item is in addition to the reward scheme, which has also increased the left more than the government has. But this special position on the state budget that goes to the cities and the challenges associated with the big cities, is this something that the Minister for Transport will look at in the light of the technical reports again?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1024	There is no doubt that everything related to public transport in and around the large urban areas must be strengthened. It is about both the environment and excellence, and it is also, in fact, about the lack of land. Then it says in the current Soria Moria that the county councils are responsible. Municipalities should have an economy that allows them to carry out their tasks in that area as well. The reward scheme is mentioned, it is also the supplement to the city track where it is applicable. I agree that despite the fact that the reward scheme is double and extra 100 million. This year and there is notice of an additional increase, there is clearly a need for additional increases. I look forward to the meetings we are about to have with the county councils on the next NTP in February/March and the further work on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1035	«The Fornebu area is constantly growing with new dwellings and jobs. It is important to put in place a good collective solution to the area as soon as possible. In the evening post on 2 February this year, the Council of State signals a willingness for the State to contribute more to the provision of collective services in urban areas. Can Oslo and Akershus expect the Council of State to be willing to increase the state's share of a track project to Fornebu, so that the project can be realised in the near future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1042	It is Akershu County Municipality and Router that is responsible for the planning of the path to Fornebu. The solution to set is not finally concluded. The cost of the project is currently idle. The project is in Oslopackak 3. Work is now under way by the Oslopacket 3 Steering Group to provide a basis for decision-making on long-term priorities in the package. The financial base of the package is a central element in this context. A path solution to Fornebu must be evaluated in conjunction with this. Following the implementation of the administrative reform, the government funds allocated to the project are included in the general framework transfer to the county municipalities. Local public transport is a municipal responsibility, and the county authorities thus have an independent responsibility for financing public transport and must give priority to it within the resources available. In Guideline 1 on the work of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the Transport Authority and Avinor were asked to look at important problem options requiring particular attention in the challenges of a forward-looking transport system. Together with the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast, I received the results of this work on 1 February this year. In the distribution report of my etatane, among others there needs to be more investment. More attention should be paid to public transport and public transport must take a greater part of the traffic in the major cities. That's what I said to the evening post. I will return to this theme in connection with the government’s proposal for the National Transport Plan 2014-2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1053	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We are aware that the collective solution to Fornebu is contained in Oslopackaktion 3, a package that has a considerable pressure on all its projects. In the article that I referred to in my first question, it refers just to the population growth in Oslo-Akershus, which will be, to say it like this, quite enormous in the next decades. Something has to be done about the collective offer. Fornebu has been inside the plans for a long time. That the state will be involved has also been signaled. I understand that the Council of State will come back to this, but will this not be a type of project it is very natural that the State should give priority in its discussions and in its dialogue with the counties in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1060	First of all, the project is in Oslopackak 3. It is clear what priority should be given to 2011. In that context, we have even set up loans to realise what is planned for 2011, and then we have asked that they pursue the balances to be made in Oslopackak 3. So the answer to the question is yes, it's natural. It is natural that both the path solution to Fornebu and other questions related to the Oslo area are recorded in the conversations that we are now starting with in February. Let me also mention that there is a separate group that is looking at developments and collective solutions in the Oslo area. Both Akershus County and Oslo Municipality are represented in addition to the etatane. There is also a basis for the next national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1067	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State and thank her for taking a positive view of this. I am familiar with the fact that both Akershus and Oslo are now working on getting a project out. But this is a relatively cost-intensive project, it is in a densely populated area, and it will require a lot from many parties. The fact that the state thus signals a willingness to contribute — and contribute properly — is good. Everything is related to everything, and while we wait for, among other things, E18 improvement from Oslo and westwards, it is very important to put things in place here, not least given that new jobs and new homes will be put in place in the Fornebu area. If the housing and workplaces are to have the collective share we want, a modern collective solution must be in place. I just note that it seems that the Council of State agrees with the premises in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1072	Let me stress that my yes was in connection with the question of whether it is natural that this will be a topic in the government's conversations with the municipalities and county councils as well. I have to answer yes to that. So it's right that this is a cost-requiring project, and there's a lot of cost-requiring projects that it'll probably be an engagement to get into the next national transport plan. So my work now goes on one side to realize as many projects as possible of those that are now promised in the current four-year period, i.e. until 2013. At the same time, I need to ensure a process, cooperation, listening to meetings with both county councils, municipalities and businesses. The first phase of this process is now under way. In February/March, there is a new direction and layout from the etats. So here's another piece ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1082	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, the State Road Service has decided that moose signs with signal yellow signs had to be immediately taken down, as has been done. In the meantime, there are no new ones, and each day several accidents occur where elg is involved. Is it better for the Council of State that there are no signs of increased elk hazards than that the wrong colour signs remain until further notice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1091	The state road authority has informed me that in winter some road sections in Hedmark had some traffic signs on the danger to elk with fluorescent yellow-green colour. Such a colour plate is ear-marked when alerting workers on the road. Therefore, it was decided that the sign was to be taken down. The state road authority has informed me that the normal danger signs notifying me of elk are now in place again on the routes in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1096	Yes, it would just be missing if the signs were not set up. But in the meantime, from the time they were taken down and until they were put up again, there were many accidents in which I was involved, and one would think that, waiting for new signs to come with the right color on the signs, the originals could stand there. It is a matter of warning that there may be a great danger to elk here, that there is a great risk of an accident, and then the colour of the sign below cannot be of such significance. I thought that road safety was the most important thing, not what colour it was on the sign for a few days as this went on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1101	Traffic security is the most important thing. Therefore, it is also important to sort between the different signs, so that those who notify work on the road should notify work on the road. But then I understand that the yellow elk signs, which were in the wrong color, were placed on the outside of the already existing danger sign for elk. The regular elk signs were not removed; only the white signs were removed. The yellow "self-signs" were hung on the plain white danger signs, and when the yellow ones were taken down, the normal danger signs appeared again, and the white ones were hung on again. What is the score? The point is, we can't protect ourselves completely against accidents, but now we have the right color in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1108	And that's good, and it's maybe a little bit because of this question here and articles in the paper that it's gotten right. But when we talk about color, I don't think the drivers are so concerned about the color that the sign has, and about the yellow color that it announced was roadwork. I believe that all drivers understand that I do not produce any roadwork. And when we're in color, it's not that many days since I had a question in the questionnaire about rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox There, moose were hung up in many different colors, and several million dollars were spent on it – both red and yellow and blue, I don't know what colors. It was all right that the Road Administration, i.e. the state, spent money on such things, but when someone hangs up the sign to warn that there is an extra big elk danger, to increase road safety, and that sign happens to have a slightly wrong yellow color – I don't understand the purpose of taking down the signs. The most important thing must be to indicate that there is a high risk of accidents and that these signs increase road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1115	I must praise the representative Bredvold for his commitment to signage both when it concerns local industry, which I have also replied to before, and when it involves danger to either elk or other elements of the roadway. But I actually don't see any point in staying at this particular point anymore, because here the State Road Service has admitted that for a while they have had a wrong color sign. The second project was intended to stimulate drivers and passengers to stay awake to both elk and other elements. I hope there's good results from all of these different types, i.e. that the elf runs go down and the emphasis goes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1126	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘There are changes in the supply of food in a number of places in the country. Professionally good and safe food supplies are essential, all of them need to be ensured equivalent food supplies. Qualified staff and adequate training can be challenging in many places in the country. Furthermore, geography and weather conditions also play a role in an overall assessment of the quality of supply. How does the Council of State assess this in those matters which are either on the Council of State’s table or which will be there in a short time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1135	In the examination of the ‘A happy event’ notification in May 2009, there was an overall increase in support of the proposal that regional health businesses, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, should draw up multi-annual, comprehensive and locally adapted food-supply plans in the region. The plan covers maternity and maternity care, so that pregnant and pregnant persons receive a coherent health service of high professional quality. A number of leads were given for the content, including: emphasis shall be placed on geographical and communication considerations. The size further joined the proposal that women's clinic, maternity ward and maternity centre, based on birth rates, be replaced by quality requirements from the Health Directorate. Structural changes in food supply resulting from regional plans are a consequence of quality requirements. Political treatment of the plans was not assessed – neither in the notification nor during the treatment in Stortinget. However, I would like to assess the four related plans in order to ensure a safe and high-quality food supply for all women regardless of their place of residence. The quality requirements, including patient safety, shall be the same throughout the country. Not all plans are available as of today. In the mission papers of regional health companies for 2011, I have underlined that further work on regional plans for maternity, maternity and maternity care is to be carried out in order to give the municipalities real influence. A decentralised food supply that is close and safe should be considered. The fact that health businesses, professional environments, municipalities and users are now going through the quality of food supply is important in strengthening maternity care. In the consultation document of the national health and care plan, I have made it clear that the approved plans will be part of the basis of the national health and care plan. This plan is presented as a major message during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1146	I thank you for your answer and confirm that Stortinget has, of course, been involved in setting criteria, but also that communication, geography, etc. is an important part of what is now happening. What I want to ask the Council of State for follow-up is that once regional health businesses have come up with some plans and come up with advice – some of them finished, so that they are well on the table of the Council of State awaiting comprehensive treatment – some places have also been proposed to close the supply of food without identifying the alternatives these women will receive in those areas. So you haven't talked about them, for example. must receive 24 hours of midwife emergency services, that they must be strengthened by ambulance services, etc. How does the Council of State view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1151	I am concerned that there should be a whole in maternity and maternity care. After all, midwives and midwives are very important also in view of the large-scale report that has been dealt with in order to be able to have midwives, such as midwives. in follow-up service if there is a long way to the place of birth. I am not aware that these are not alternative places of birth where there are proposals for changes in the supply of food. As far as I know, it is. But as I said, these are things that I have to assess, and which, of course, I, because I have them for assessment, go into thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1158	Then I would like to ask: Should it not have been a clear claim from e.g. The Department, when it comes to proposing an alternative structure of the food supply, given that it is possible to end up laying down a maternity ward, lay down a hospital – what do I know – that it would be said that there should be a full alternative to the birthing women on the table? It doesn't. It's rumored, as we can read in the last issue of the Soccer Association, that they're concerned about the midwife services in the municipalities. These are examples of how some places will reduce the ambulance service – I have heard this – for example. in Sogn and Fjordane near Nordfjord. They don't have 24 hours of emergency care. You don't see the alternatives. What's created the great insecurity for birthing women, I don't think you'll see what's going to happen instead of if their food supply was to be cut off. Will the Council of State include this in her assessment when she now summarises all these plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1163	Since the representative Davøy mentions Nordfjord: The proposal from Health West is that the food departments of Nordfjordeid Hospital and Volda Hospital should be merged and located in Volda. As far as I am aware, Health West has proposed a midwifery nursery at the hospital in Nordfjordeid if it is a local wish. I don't know that there aren't any alternatives. On the contrary, I have the impression that this option is proposed. So it's going to be part of the case. But I'm very concerned that there's going to be a midwife offer to everyone, in collaboration between the municipalities and the health companies. It is also part of the Communication addressed by the Stortinget in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1172	‘Health Nord shall decide at the next board meeting whether to start the construction of new Narvik hospitals in 2012. Can the Council of State guarantee that the construction of a new hospital in Narvik will start as planned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1179	As the question from the representative Torgeir Tåldal is formulated, it may seem that it has been planned to start building a new hospital at UNN Narvik in 2012. That has never been the case, and I guess the representative is well acquainted with that. The government is facilitating significant investments in the hospital sector in North Norway, with a budget of 265 million in 2010. kr in investment loans for investment projects in Health Nord. Health Nord has a total turnover of about 13 billion. kr and will invest for close to 1.4 billion. kr in 2011. There are large construction projects in the region, both at the Nordlandssykehuset Bodø, with a framework of 3 billion. kr, and at the Nordlandssykehuset Vesterålen, with a frame of 850 million. kr. Furthermore, Health Nord REF has sent plans for the development of new A-flöj at UNN to the Department. This expansion has a cost estimate of approx. 1 billion. kr. The application for loans for the implementation of the project is part of these plans. Health Nord wants to launch this project in 2012. Health Nord has developed a long-term investment plan for upgrading its hospital buildings. In addition to the three projects I have mentioned, there are also plans for a new patient hotel at UNN Tromsø, a new hospital at UNN Narvik and a new hospital in Health Finnmark, both in Kirkenes and in Hammerfest. These are all major projects that it is impossible for Health Nord to implement simultaneously. The draft investment plan is therefore rolling, and Health Nord integrates and prioritises new investment projects in line with economic and technical frameworks. I am pleased that Health Nord has developed good plans to upgrade its hospital buildings. Not everything can be done at the same time. The work now being done by the region in the rolling investment plan provides for a priority between investments. It ensures a realistic, long-term investment plan that is feasible within the financial framework provided by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1192	Health Nord has always said that they are ready to start building a new hospital in Narvik in 2012, as long as there is money on the table. We don't get any money, and so it's clear, as I understand from the answer to the council, that they're not going to start the construction of Narvik Hospital. The Council of State has previously been in and used its right of governance to do something about the hospitals when she wanted to. When the Council of State can't give a correct answer as to whether you can give priority to hospitals in the north where there are long distances, it also hits the recruitment, and it affects employees who want to move away. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State now take action against Health Nord and ensure that they implement what has been said, building in 2012, so that the whole of Norway can be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1197	I must say that I am a little surprised that the representative Treldal did not listen to the first part of my answer. It has never been planned that Health Nord should start building in Narvik in 2012. In my answer, I have explained in detail the expansion plans in Health North. I'm very pleased that they in Health Nord are good at keeping their financial budgets, so they're actually able to invest. I have also said that there is a need for investment in many places. They run different projects in Northland, and also in Troms, as I have mentioned – both in Tromsø and on the plan in Narvik. And in Finnmark there is a need for new hospitals in Kirkenes and in Hammerfest. It has never been planned that Health Nord should start in Narvik in 2012. I have now done a repressive thing for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1204	Clearly, you do not speak the same language in Health North as elsewhere. A new question to the Council of State: Today’s future edition says that the Workers’ Party’s group leader in Narvik City Council has been on the Stortinget to seek help, among other things. The hospital in Narvik, but he won't tell who you've visited. He also says that there is a need to look at differences in policy, that the Labour Party has two different policies. You have a central and local policy. My question to the Council of State is: Is it common in the Workers' Party in a way to impose their elected silence on who you are talking to? And is it part of a culture where you do double communication? Is there a culture to be in a way and stop further expansion of new hospitals without saying yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1213	There are meaningless claims that are made. It's not like we're putting tapes on someone or refusing to talk. In the case of Narvik Hospital, I am familiar with the need for new building mass there, but there are no plans to start building this in 2012. It hasn't been, and it isn't. It would also not be possible to start building such a large project in 2012. This is now on the investment plan, I have explained that, and then it comes when Narvik's turn to get new construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1224	‘There is a need for urgent solutions to ensure faster access to tour sites for trained doctors. At the same time, spaces stand unused and place the watch. What will the Council of State do to address the urgent need for more turns to newly trained doctors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1231	Let me first say that I share the impatience of the representative. It is a fact that today's medical tour service is under pressure, and there are various reasons why there is a need to assess the modification and modernisation of the system. This is some of the reasons why the Health Directorate has previously been assigned by the Ministry of Health and Welfare to examine proposals for a new model for the service. In today's tour plan, the state and the municipality are obliged to set up a tour site for all those who sign up to the tour scheme. Unfortunately, the waiting lists for the Tournament Service have been getting longer and longer in recent years. In 2011, there are 840 places available, while there were 1680 registered candidates. Nearly one third of applicants ask for different specific schemes, making it even more challenging to find satisfactory places for all applicants. The Ministry now has an assessment of a report from the Health Directorate proposing a comprehensive conversion of the current tour service. The proposal is based, inter alia, on: a broad consultation round with stakeholders concerned. In the hearing, the vast majority of the hearing bodies recognise the need for changes to the current medical rotation service. At the same time, many bodies have raised objections to parts of the Directorate’s proposals. The objections include, inter alia: related to recruitment and district challenges, professional conditions and administrative and economic consequences. We're taking with us all these recordings in the process of finding a good and forward-looking system. I assume that we are still going to have a system that takes care of the need for newly trained doctors to have valuable work experience in different patient situations and organisational frameworks. It is a growing problem to get many and good places to tour. The free flow of labour within the EEA area contributes to increased pressure on the tour system. The agreement obliges Norway to provide space for tour applicants from all over the EEA territory, including foreign nationals. Developments in recent years show that today’s system acts as a traction patch on newly trained doctors from other countries. In 2009, non-residents constituted 43 pst. by all applicants. The forecasts show that there is a need for more than 30 pst. increase in the number of turns to 2014. If we don't make changes to the scheme now, the waiting lists will just keep increasing. I can assure the representative, Höie, that I want to have full pressure on the work to make changes to the tour system. I will inform Storting properly as soon as the work is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1250	I am pleased that the Minister of Health also sees this as a serious problem. It is a paradox that, on the one hand, there are increasing waiting lists for patients and, on the other hand, increasing waiting lists with doctors who want to be approved. What's my question is more about what you're going to do with the acute situation that's now. The Minister of Health mentioned some figures. The other number I've heard is that there's 1,100 registered to the draw in August, while there's a maximum of 475 places. And we also know that a lot of places are available, that there are some places that are awake, that there are about 15 pst. by those who report, do not set up or complete the tour as planned. What action will the Minister of Health take when one does not get rid of the inertia that is in today's system, which actually leads to spaces being unused while many are in line and want these places?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1257	It is clear that there is a problem that some places are left unused when there is a great need for doctors, and when there is a great need for these places. But as I say, I'll immediately go in and solve the long-term situation, but of course also have pressure on the immediate situation, where we see that it's a big challenge to get turns. Exactly what measures we can take in the short term, I have to come back to. This could be part of the orientation that I'm going to Stortinget. But at least it must be clear that this is a high priority, because this is very important, so that we do not get into a situation where these waiting lists are becoming more and more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1264	I would recommend the Minister of Health to look at the recordings that have come from the organisations to possible immediate action in view of the situation of the year. It would have been interesting to hear if the Minister of Health has a timetable for the new tour scheme, if we can relate to it being in place by August 2012. There should, of course, be sufficient time. So my next question to the Minister of Health and Health is: Will you work based on the fact that the new tour scheme is in place until August 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1271	It may well be in place in August 2012, or before that, for that matter, but I do not want to present the final schedule here and now. I can do that as soon as we get into this, when you see what processes are needed to make the changes that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1280	«There is now much doubt both in Molde and in Kristiansund about what will result from the postponement of the construction of the new Molde hospital. The professional environment, inter alia: in the case of Molde, the fear of recruitment and, where appropriate, that employees apply to leave the hospital. On 1 February there was also a demonstration in Molde where nearly 3,000 showed their frustration. This current uncertainty cannot continue. When will a final decision be taken whether there will be one or two hospitals in this region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1287	Investment projects shall be incorporated into the overall plans and budgets of regional health enterprises so that future costs can be managed once the investment has been completed. The State, which owns it, has committed funds both to cover operations and the costs of investments in the basic framework of regional health establishments. Regional health enterprises have a comprehensive responsibility for investment and operation. In the field of investment, this means that regional health enterprises are responsible for prioritising, planning and launching the right individual projects in the region. Therefore, a premise for the construction of a new hospital is that Health Mid-Norway REF has sufficient financial carrying capacity to implement the projects within the income framework set by the Storting. The board of Health Mid-Norway has submitted reports showing that the regional health company will only have the economy around 2018 to implement investments in the size of New Molde hospitals as available today. I therefore gave feedback to Health Mid-Norway on 8 December last year that in the time perspective we are now seeing for the new hospital, I would like to continue a dialogue with Health Mid-Norway REF on the choice of hospital solution. I want to do what I can to make the project the best possible progress, but it is also important that we spend enough time, so that we are sure that we choose the best solution. As the representative is sure to be aware, at the business meeting on 25 January of this year, Health Mid-Norway was given the task of bringing together the two health establishments in More and Romesdal into one health establishment by 1 July. In this work, it is natural to see the individual hospitals as part of a whole chain, where they together will meet the need for specialist health services and ensure good patient paths for the entire population in More and Romesdal. It is therefore important to see the whole state in the context when choosing a hospital solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1298	It was the state council that stopped the construction of Molde hospitals. It is the Council of State itself that, among other things, have requested a new investigation related to one or two hospitals. The board of Health Mid-Norway, the regional health company, had cancelled the construction of a new Molde hospital. And then you can think about what's related to the time factor, or not. But it was a central message to investigate a hospital in the region. It's the responsibility of the Council of State. It has caused considerable concern in this region, it is not known what to do with. It is therefore important to ensure that clarification is provided as quickly as possible. I hope the Council of State won't let this race go now, so one can get the impression of the answer from the Council of State, and leave it up to the region itself to assess ahead – and you don't have any hurry until 2018. I want to remind you that this region has a significant surplus, with several hundred million in surplus. Health South-East, where the government has granted funds for the construction of a new hospital, is running short. What's the big difference between Health South-East and what's in Middle Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1303	The big difference is that Health Mid-Norway has very high costs associated with previous loans, especially in relation to the construction of St. Olav's hospital, which is a very important hospital for the whole of Health Mid-Norway. So it's not like the Council of State has stopped building a new hospital. The Health Mid-Norway report says that they have money to build in 2018 at the earliest – an estimated time. It is a prerequisite for building, whether one or two hospitals are to be built. But what's right is that in March 2010, I asked to have one or two hospitals assessed. It was also a report that came with the financial assessment, which I had also asked for last March.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1310	Yeah, we're familiar with the problems associated with St. Olav's hospital. St. Olav's hospital was in a special position, because there was an extension that had been put in place before the Health Company Reform came into place. But it's kind of strange, when this region is going to expand, that all of us have to stand up for 100 percent expansion on St. Olav, despite the fact that it's only 30 pst. of the activities of St. Olav having a university or regional function, while 70 pst. has a local hospital function for Trondheim and the surrounding area. But I want to ask questions about the future organisation, with one health company in Central Norway. It has only been possible to create unrest in the North Sea and in the Valley of Rome, and then it is possible to extend this unrest to the whole of the Moor and the Valley of Rome. My question to the Council of State is, because the big debate is now linked to administration: where should you have it? Can the Council of State now confirm that the administration is to be located at the hospital in Ålesund, which is currently an effective hospital, and has been shown to be functional? Or will you just once again shift responsibility to the new health business, so that there will be a buffer between the councils and the citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1317	I think it is natural that there is a process going on in the region on further progress, but I fully agree that Health Sunnmare is a good health company, it is well run, Ålesund Hospital is a good hospital – the largest hospital in the county there. But I haven't put any leads on where the new administration is going to be. It may also be that there may be much more to a network organisation, what do I know? But I do believe that the organisation itself has to make assessments of, just as I am confident that they will be able to work together for the benefit of a population of less than 250,000 people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1326	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘The Government is planning the closure of the Deaf-blinding Centre in Northern Norway to have only one centre of expertise located in the East. If this is implemented, it will have dramatic consequences for users in North Norway and those who are totally dependent on the offer made by the deaf-blind centre in Tromsø. Deaf blind are a group that needs long-term follow-up and assistance, and sometimes throughout their lives. Will the Council of State ensure that the deaf-blind centre in North Norway is not shut down?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1335	This answer I could make very brief, and the answer is yes. To substantiate it a little bit: I am aware that there has been some uncertainty in the north around the future of the deaf-blind centre in Tromsø, but the answer to the question of whether I want to make sure it is not laid down is yes. It's not appropriate to drop the deaf-blind center in North Norway. The centre provides an important offer to a vulnerable patient group. Today’s centres of expertise for rare and unfamiliar diagnosis and disability, which is the subject of the Health Directorate’s report, are partly very different and provide different direct services to users. The overall organisation of centres of expertise for rare and unknown diagnosis and disability will allow for greater equality in the work of the different units. In addition, such organisation will facilitate more cooperation between units and contribute to more and better research in the field. The Ministry of Health and Health asked the Directorate of Health to carry out an organisational but not physical collection of existing centres of expertise for rare and unknown diagnosis and disability in one national competence service. The Ministry received a report on 30 November last year. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is now working on the evaluation and follow-up of the report. The Ministry has invited all the centres, users and regional health establishments to meet on 24 February so that they can make their views known. However, I would like to reiterate that users can be confident that the provision of deaf blind people in North Norway will be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1344	I thank the Council of State for what I see as a positive answer. I could have actually ended here and maybe gone and given the council a hug, but it would be an unparliamentary way of expressing itself in this room, so we might have to take that out in the hiking hall. I'm happy with the positive answer, and it's been a great commitment across the country around this question. What I can really think of is challenging the Council of States a little bit, is the offer you're giving, that it's going to be a low-threshold offer. The feedback we get from the Centre is that the framework agreement that defines the target group is getting narrower and narrower, and then I can ask that question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State strengthen the offer that is in Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1351	One important element in these groups of disabilities, rare diagnosis, deaf blindness, is that there are not many who have these disorders. The more important it is that they have strong figures, and that we can work together across the country on what is the best offer for them. It's an important part of this, but at the same time we have to have the offer that's out there, in North Norway in this case, and, of course, also strengthen its competence, because that's the most important thing for us to be able to give the best offer and the best treatment to a vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1356	Then I thank the Council of State for the answer, and then I will follow developments in this matter closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1361	The President does not expect the Council of State to need any further comment when offered a hug.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1368	We'll see if this round gives the same outcome: ‘In the last year, there have been several examples of the loss of large revenues by halting or postponing oil extraction due to a lack of time-critical measures. In the Heidrun field, missing drilling may lead to losses of up to 45 billion. kr. The Offshore.no website reports on February 3rd this year that the government's loss on the closure of wells on Gullfak could be 12 billion. kr. What measures does the government take to follow up such events and to ensure that similar issues can be addressed at an earlier date?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1377	I think we're going on a case! In Norway, we have established a framework around the petroleum industry that allows the rightholders in our fields in most cases to have a self-interest in making good decisions for society. This also applies to enhanced extraction measures. One of the main tasks of the Oil Directorate is to follow the fields closely to ensure that companies act in line with good resource management. An important part of this is to work for all profitable resources to be picked up. The degree of extraction on the continental shelf varies considerably between fields. It depends, among other things, on: of the reservoir conditions and the expansion solution. On average, if today's plans are implemented, the recovery rate for our fields will be 46 pst. It's high from an international perspective. It's also a significant upside-down in finding solutions that make more of the remaining 54 pst. can also be picked up. I want the rightholders to aggressively hunt down all the profitable resources in the fields. I want them to set ambitious goals, something to reach for. I want actors who are creative and actively pursuing solutions that can increase the extraction rate. Then it's that sometimes you don't succeed in getting it a wish. One of the main tasks of the Oil Directorate is to follow up the actions of the companies in accordance with good resource management. In this work we have close dialogue with both operators and other rightholders. There are, and will always be, challenges related to offshore oil and gas production. I put down an expert committee last year to look at what can be done to increase the extraction from our fields. Progress and costs related to well drilling are an important theme of this report. Increased extraction is also an important theme of the forthcoming notification of the petroleum industry. Let me then comment a little bit on the two fields that the representative Solvik-Olsen explicitly mentions in his question. The Oil Directorate has been closely following up the operator on the Heidrun extraction strategy over several years. The Directorate shall have, inter alia: asked for the concreteisation of further measures that could help increase oil extraction. One of these measures is how to increase the drilling efficiency of Heidrun in order to have more extraction wells drilled. I know that the operator has a lot of attention to the challenges related to Heidrun. I expect the owners of Heidrun to do what is necessary to harvest the profitable resources in the field. There has been a lot of attention around Gullfaks in the last year. The water injection in the field has given greater pressure build-up than expected in some geological layers. The operator has therefore closed down some wells while the owners consider how to proceed with production from the field. It is not clear today whether the challenges on Gulfak will give lower extraction rates from the field, or whether we are facing only a postponement of production. The Oil Directorate assesses the continuous operator’s resource management on Gulfaks, including field knowledge, ongoing studies and knowledge acquisition as well as the actions undertaken and assessed by the operator.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1403	I think the council had a good introduction. My starting point in this round is that I want a maximum of petroleum extraction on a Norwegian base, but this must be done within the requirements of health, environment and safety. I don't think we disagree about it, so there's no sense in driving any polemics. But once again, there are challenges, and when I'm concerned about this, it's because one sees that here one, if one doesn't do time-critical things in some areas, might lose opportunities to retrieve resources. And here one should be ‘on the ball’ compared to one taking the necessary action early. I will not say that Statoil is not fit to do that job; they are very competent for this. At the same time, with a lack of competition on the pedestal – they are in the main seat of many cases – they may be able to give priority to something that is of interest to society, but not socio-economic interest. Petoro's role in this is very interesting. Does the Council of State see any possibility of strengthening Petoro, so that they can become an even better vigilance against the use of resources in the fields?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1414	As far as Petoro is concerned, I believe it is important that we are clear on which types of fields, which areas of the socket that Petoro should have its main business aimed at. There I have told Petoro that I want an enhanced focus on the mature fields. It's the fields that have the greatest value creation, that's the fields where we have the greatest technical challenges as a result of what we're now discussing. In the years ahead, that means that Petoro will have a special effort directed towards Snorre, towards Heidrun and towards Gullfaks. So the answer to the question is: Yes, Petoro will, and will, have an important role in this work. But as my answer also showed, it is important for me to highlight the role of the Director of Oil as the responsible actor for the resource management of Norwegian Socket as a whole. There I hope that my first answer also gave the impression of an offensive oil directorate, who has been given a clear assignment by me to be active in the licenses and ensure that the use of resources is optimal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1421	The oil directorate also has good words to say about. There are others who are on the brake on developing the oil and gas sector in Norway and who the Council of State is more aware of. Another angle to the problem that we've had in relation to Gulfaks is security. One knows that the principal protection officer has withdrawn from his position out there. At the same time, the Petroleum Inspectorate, who is doing an excellent job, said in his budget call to the Minister of Labour that they would like to have more resources to do their job properly. But there was no increase in government appropriations. When you look at that side of e.g. The gold-lfak incident, where people feel insecure, and where Statoil has known for a few weeks about the problems without informing so many others than the authorities – barely their own employees, we shall believe some reports – will the Petroleum Control department be able to see a reinforcement in the future, in order to be ‘on the ball’ in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1428	I have no reason to say that the Petroleum Authority is not fully competent to follow up on the questions to be followed up on the Norwegian base. The situation that we have had, and still has some of it on Gullfak, lies, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen quite rightly says, substantially under the responsibility of the Petroleum Authority, and I expect, as I said, that it will be followed up in the way that it should be followed up. With regard to budgetary issues related to the Petroleum Control, I will not go into any detail on this, partly because in the 2012 budgetary process we have been relatively short on the priorities to be addressed. In addition, supervision is outside my remit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1446	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1453	‘Many times TV 2 has shown cases where disabled persons are denied an application for a car in Group 2 because of the wording of Section 2 of the Regulation. The assessment of the car centre places little emphasis on the individual's need to get out on their own and the need to have an electric wheelchair to move outside the car. The total cost is also not emphasised. Will the Council consider changing the regulation so that applications for a car in Group 2 can also be granted when the person is able to get out and out of the car on his own?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1460	I understand that the representative does not primarily want to review the criteria for assigning a car to disabled persons, but an explanation of why no more, and especially wheelchair users, are allocated to a car in Group 2. I'm going to save the representative for the long and common review of the legislation, but we'll get a little bit here. The system of splitting into two car groups was introduced by the previous government in 2003. The allocation scheme was then amended to distinguish common passenger cars in Group 1 from special-purpose group 2 vehicles. One of the conditions for having a right to a car in Group 2 is that you are unable to get in and out of the car on your own without using a lift or ramp. I understand that despite the clear legislation, borderline cases can be found that can be perceived as unreasonable. In this context, it can be clarified that there are other conditions applicable to passenger car grants and that that type of grant may be used for the partial financing of a larger car. It is also possible to apply for support to a trailer if you want to carry larger aids, such as: a wheelchair. In 2009, the total cost of car support was just over 850 million. kr. Expenditure has increased over time. This increase is mainly due to a significant increase in social benefits for custom-made vans. The government is constantly concerned about how we can best ensure that the legislation works properly. Any amendment of the legislation, which would amend the regulation for, for example: including some of the considerations mentioned by the representative is a budgetary matter, which must be assessed against other priority areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1473	I thank you for your answer. I know that there was a change in 2003. But there was nothing in the matter that meant that the system would be tightened up so that many of those who need a van do not get it. I am not going to go into proceedings, but I want to give a few examples: among other things, there is a parental killer who has a child of 30 kg that they have to carry out and inside a car – which means that the mother will probably get poor health – and this makes it almost impossible for them to carry this boy. They do not get a car because he has a certain function. Then we have another example with one that has a very, very bad walking function and that absolutely needs to carry electric wheelchairs. He wants to have major problems with the trailer, and he must have the opportunity to move when he has parked the car. There are major problems with the hammock system. Does not the Council of State see how problematic it is, both in terms of parking and in relation to the fact that a user should have a chair up and down on a hanger – all the practical things about this? And doesn't the Council of State see that there are problems that should be solved differently from today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1482	The change that the former government made in 2003 was just to make better those who needed it the most. It was to get more out for those who needed it the most. Therefore, the distinction between Group 1 and Group 2 was made. We have a code to ensure that those who need the most custom-made car get this. It doesn't mean – and I fully agree – that anyone who needs it or can need it gets it. It's eaten in, it's a priority compared to those who need it the most. A distinction has been made if you have a walking function, if you can manage to get out and out of the car yourself. I think we agree that there is nothing wrong with that practice. It is confirmed by the Supreme Court, it is within the framework of the Code. Then, like the representative, I can say that I could also wish that anyone who needed it got. But as a responsible government party, there are also some financial priorities in the budget. At least we have to do it, the Progress Party is not in the first row there. Then you've made the assessment that you've been paying attention to those who need it the most. And then we'll have to review this continuously, in the context of the budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1491	The progress party does not agree that anyone who wants it will get it. And we also want a strict practice. But what you see is that today's practice is inappropriate and too strict. The Supreme Court has upheld Nav's interpretation of the regulation as it stands today. And what I'm asking the Council of State is, doesn't the Council of State mean that the regulation might have to change something? Legally, that's what Nav is doing, but you might want to change the regulation, so that even those with a small function get the opportunity to get out with a van. Today they are prevented from doing so, and the thing about hanger is an impractical and poor solution. So we want an approximation of that regulation, so that one better caters to the heavy users who need a van, but of course not all. But it is up to the Council of State to make an adjustment, not only in relation to walking function, but also in relation to those who depend on wheelchairs or ramps – to ensure that both the wheelchair and the user get in and out. We also want to get a practical assessment of the boy I mentioned, where the parents have to carry him because of the overall picture of the disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1498	I am asking for an understanding that I do not go into individual matters. I fully agree with the representative that one thing is that legislation is being followed as it should, but there is no argument in itself, because legislation can change. So I fully understand that you need to keep up with whether this is a good and appropriate regulation. But it is a budgetary matter, because if you want to extend the legislation – you put a great deal of discretion into what the representative is proposing – it will have major budgetary implications. It is a priority that must be done in relation to other groups. We've been working on the fact that we've chosen to give priority to those who need it the most, and then I can't say anything but that we look at the legislation all the time and follow it up in the context of the budget. But there are therefore priorities that you have to do all the time, also related to this welfare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1514	This issue has been postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has left. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-09.ana.ud209e1529	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
