ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e69	The representatives of Morten Høglund, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Eirin Sund, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Four permit applications are available: from the representative of the Lise Christoffersen on leave from 21 March to 25 March to take part in the mandate of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Moldova, and from the Labour Party Group on the leave of the representatives of Jette F. Christensen and Truls Wickholm from 21 March to 23 March – both to take part in the Nordic Council Forum for Young Politicians in the Nordic and North-West Russia, in Arkhangelsk from the Labour Party Group on the leave of the representative Svein Roald Hansen from 21 and 22 March to take part, as chairman of the EFTA/EEA delegation, in the annual conference of the WTO Parliamentary Conference, in Geneva, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened: For the District of Buskerud: Nina Mjøberg from 21 March to 23 March For the Province of Hordaland: Roald Aga Haug from 21 March to 23 March For the Province of Oslo: Karin Yrvin from 21 March to 23 March For the Province of Eastfold: Stein Erik Lauvås from 21 and 22 March
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e134	Nina Mjøberg, Roald Aga Haug, Karin Yrvin and Stein Erik Lauvås are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e142	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e145	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vogskesen and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting proposals for increased road safety, reduced losses of infrastructure and car fleet, and protection of water sources and nature through reduced use of road salt on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e150	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e153	I am delighted to present proposals on behalf of the representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, Siri A. Meling, Bjørn Lødemel, Line Henriette Hemdal, Trine Skei Grande, Borghild Tenden and myself to include small power plants in a transitional scheme for green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e158	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e174	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e183	There are important questions that will be addressed in the proposal we have before us today. Breeding is a major industry. It is an important export industry that has many jobs in the districts. Breeding is a relatively young industry in high growth. She faces many challenges, and the Storting has discussed the industry many times here in the hall. Breeding is an industry that embraces of our common nature. It is therefore important to have a good governance regime, with laws and regulations that facilitate an economic and environmentally viable industry. A clear management regime is important for the industry itself, for the environment and for other industries dependent on the same resource base. The farming industry is regulated by the Aquaculture Act. Fees and penalties are dealt with in two different paragraphs of the Aquaculture Act. Section 30 of the Aquaculture Act grants permission to print a fee for a violation of the regulations provided under the law. When the Stortinge dealt with aquaculture laws in 2005, the relationship with the Constitution and with the European Convention on Human Rights was discussed. The promise was confirmed here in the hall. The proposers refer to the so-called Polarlaks saka. In this case, the Civil Ombudsman found that there could be doubts as to whether the fee could be regarded as a penalty in relation to the Constitution. In the light of assessments by the Civil Ombudsman, the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast re-entered the response regulation. Ein found that § 10 of the reaction regulation did not have an adequate legal basis in § 30 of the aquaculture law, and the department repealed § 10 of the regulation. This matter has been dealt with for some time in the Committee pending a wide-ranging orientation and debate on the farming industry in Stortinget. That is why there has been some progress since the proposal for a representative was tabled. The Ministry has developed a new section 10 of the reaction regulation. The proposal for a new paragraph was sent to the audience, and he entered into force on 1 February 2011. In the new section 10, emphasis is placed on having clear rules for fees, and there is a ceiling on the size of the fee in addition to what one has started to break the rules. The new Section 10 of the Regulation has been supplemented by observations from the Directorate of Fisheries's regional offices at first instance and the Directorate of Fisheries at the centre of the Board of Appeal. In addition, the Court of Justice is specifically addressed. Aquaculture law is five years old. In a letter to the Food Committee, the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs wrote that there could be a ‘post-control’ of the aquaculture law. After this review, it may be appropriate to present to Stortinget a proposal with any adjustments to the aquaculture law. It is important to have a good governance regime with clear laws and rules to help develop a sustainable industry. The government has now changed the part of the response code that has been asked for. At the same time, detailed rules of procedure have been drawn up with reference to the right of access to justice. In addition, the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has warned that she considers the need to make changes to the aquaculture law. It is important that the government thus follows developments and establishes a well-functioning administrative regime. The representative proposal also addresses the issue of the withdrawal of salmon concessions awarded in 2009. In this case, the government chose to award four new concessions to those who lost the concession in the appeal proceedings, and it has previously been briefed by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Then I'll end by recommending the settings from the multiples in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e209	First of all, I will be allowed to pay tribute to the proposers to address this matter. Now that we have heard the rapporteur's comments here, and not least read the position of the committee and also the letter from the Council of State, I have to say that I am very surprised at the decision that has been taken by the majority, because both comments and letters from the Council of State address precisely the issues raised by the rapporteurs. It is pointed out that it is agreed that this has been a problem, it is shown that Section 10 of the Regulation did not have sufficient authority under Section 30 of the Act, it is shown that it is important that the concept of legal certainty is respected and that these things must be followed up. That is precisely what the proposers are referring to in their proposal. So I wonder why then you go to the step that in the proposal for a decision you write ‘not to be admitted’, or rejected, as some of us might say, instead of either attaching the proposal to the protocol or going into what the minority is into. It is said in the text and in the note that one agrees with the intention and in what is to be done, but when it comes to the decision, one makes the exact opposite. I am very excited to hear the presentation by the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast, when she is going to have the floor afterwards, for what is the background to rejecting a proposal that is said in the text to be very much in agreement. Part of what has been raised is precisely the concept of legal certainty, and not least the infringement fee. We've seen several situations, Polarlax is one thing. We also have other issues where different types of fines have been imposed according to what the administration considers to be classified cases. It is clear that visual inspection must not be the basis for the size of the fine, for example. one escape, or one sits down and says, well, there's so many pounds too much in the mermaid, or the number of fish, and then we're saying that now we put the bot like that. It can't be like that, we have to have a good and clear set of rules to deal with. After the debate here on 22 February, a debate following the presentation by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs held here on 17 February, it is quite clear that there are many good thoughts and views and wishes about this industry, including the Council of State, and that is very positive. Because even if you say that it's a young industry – you got the first successful job done over 40 years ago, and it's been a fast growing industry, and obviously also an industry that has its conflicts and problems – it's important that the legislation, both on the fee side and in reaction forms, is time-ready, and also, I kept saying, its justification in a law that is easy to understand. I would also like to promote the proposal that the Progress Party shares with the Right on: ‘The Government is asked to present a case to the Grand Duchy on the legal certainty of the farming industry, including a proposal to amend the reaction provisions of the Aquaculture Act, in order to improve the legal certainty of the farming industry and to eliminate the legal ambiguity prevailing.’ Because it's obvious that there's still some ambiguity, and you have to deal with it, so that this industry also knows what you're dealing with. I just have to say that I am attending the statements of the Council of State to hear what is not agreed in the text that means that one must go to the step of rejecting a very good proposal, even if one argues in the text that one agrees with the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e229	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e232	It has been pointed out many times from this pulpit how important the breeding industry is to our country, but it really cannot be said often enough. Norwegian maritime food exports are volumeising new records every year and exports are between 25 and 30 billion. kr annually. Many companies make good money and contribute to good employment, often in the districts. The industry is therefore also important in relation to the global food situation, which calls for the full use of our priority resources to help meet the growing food needs of the world. Marine farming is one of the areas in which we are internationally competitive in taking part in that responsibility. At the same time, the industry is an unsubsidized industry. But it is also an industry that is vulnerable to the environmental challenges that are being posed, because this is happening in our common areas. Therefore, there must be a significant focus on the environmental sustainability of the industry, both from the industry itself and from the authorities. However, it must also be such that regulations are sustainable, not only environmentally, but economically, so that value creation and jobs can develop positively. This is a difficult balance. There have been a number of examples of the failure of the balance sheet process, in particular in meetings between ministerially-overcoming agencies. It is therefore important that management is good, reliable and predictable, so that actors see that they are given equal treatment. This is what this proposal for a representative is based on, namely the practice of Section 30 of the Aquaculture Act, which has not been in line with the general sense of law, because it was perceived as unclear whether there were legal grounds for the penalties that were applied, and – even more importantly – whether they were predictable. In the proposal it is shown that the civil ombudsman has been inside the picture and that there is justified doubt as to whether the fee was within the Basic Law § 96. Therefore, it is good that the previous legislation of the reaction regulation was repealed and that we have received a new regulation. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is appropriate to look at Section 30 of the Aquaculture Act, in particular with regard to fee assessments and the relationship with the courts, because it is unsustainable that the aquaculture industry should live on the question of the legal certainty of the industry. They have many other challenges, both in terms of their own activities, and in terms of their cooperation and relationship with the authorities. That is why it is excellent that at least a case is notified to Stortinget about this. The withdrawal of concessions, which are also mentioned in the proposal, is a very good example of the legal security issue around the administration. And it shows that there is a great need for clarification. In these cases, concessions were withdrawn for a long time after the companies had related to the initial allocation – and had invested millions of dollars. This messed up – if we can say it like that – was finally concluded with even more uncertainty by the fact that four out of five companies were given additional concessions after much political pressure, without it actually being possible to find concrete arguments that the fifth company had been left out. This type of episode is unfortunate and at least shows that there is a need for a much more clear regulation. And when it comes to this: this is a matter that the Council of State now warns that probably will come to Stortinget, and you will look into the law. Then it becomes a little strange – this was also taken up by the representative Nesvik in the post before me – that there is not so much positive about something that has been agreed to both in comments and in letters from the Council of State, that at least the proposal is annexed to the Minutes. There are important shades in Storting's statements on matters, and here we really agree. Everyone wants it to be environmentally sustainable, but everyone also wants it to be a great predictability for a very important industry. It could also underline the opposition in a stronger way by its proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e249	The farming industry, as several have mentioned, is one of the strongest growing industries we have in Norway, and forms a large part of the value creation and jobs across the coast. Only in 2010 it was produced 1 million. tonnes of farmed fish. It is clear that such a large industry, with significant growth, needs clear guidelines with reactions such as: fees and concessions if serious errors are made leading to accidents such as: may have major ecological consequences. This is done today, on the basis of Section 30 of the Aquaculture Act. It is clear that there is a problem if there is doubt as to the legal certainty of the industry, when reactions based on Section 30 of the Aquaculture Act are provided. It is therefore appropriate to consider whether this paragraph should be designed in a different way. It is therefore gratifying to see that the Council of State also sees the challenge. She says in a letter to the nutrition committee dated 19 November that ‘it may be appropriate to consider whether Section 30 of the Aquaculture Act should be designed differently’ and that she will consider promoting a proposition for the Stortinget in spring 2011. I expect – and believe – that the Council of State will follow up on what she has said, and expect to see a bill on the table in the next few months. I therefore support the Committee's recommendation, as expressed in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e264	Now it's not long since I was in this room and debated Norwegian aquaculture policy, and I'd like to come back. The debate showed that there is broad agreement on the broad lines of policy in this area. The consequences of infringements of the Aquaculture Code can be serious, so I believe that compliance with the rules is crucial and that infringements can be dealt with by penalties. As I see it, there's no disagreement about this. The theme of this debate is legal certainty. I would first like to say that I am concerned that the aquaculture industry should have the same legal certainty as all other businesses in Norway – and I believe that they do. All decisions taken by the administration may be appealed against and all decisions may be referred to the courts. The provisions on the infringement fee were adopted by a unanimous increase in June 2005, following the submission by the Bondevik II Government of proposals for a new aquaculture law in the spring of the same year. The preparatory work of the legal provision refers to the preparatory work of the Participant Act, in which the relationship with the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights has been discussed in more detail. Among other things, the preparatory work addresses important questions of legal certainty such as the right to review by the courts and the minimum rights applicable to the imposition of an infringement fee. The size has therefore already been submitted, and assessed, the legal certainty procedures applicable to the imposition of an infringement fee under the Aquaculture Act. A central theme in the debate on the charge of infringements has been the size of responses. In this respect, it has been suggested from several teams — especially from the farming industry — that the penalties have been too strict. However, in the cold water of the escape episode in Trondelag a short time ago, there are things that indicate that not everyone agrees with this. For example, both the WWF and the State Attorney at Trøndelag have stated that the submissions to the aquaculture industry are too low when looking at the turnover of the breeding companies. We must also note this when the proposers talk about the 'general sense of justice'. Following the handling by the Civil Ombudsman of the so-called Polarlaks case, the Ministry has laid down a new provision on an infringement fee for biomass infringements. I have noticed that, among other things. the breeding organisation FHL is more satisfied with this new provision. Now I am not going to interfere in what decisions are taken in this room. What I can repeat, on the other hand, is that I still evaluate, and consider very strongly, is to present a Prop. L for Stortinget, at the earliest in the current session. If such a proposition is made, it would be natural to review the sanction chapter of the law. In this case, the Stortinget will again have the opportunity to debate these questions. Then are the proposers for the 2009 allocation round. The Aquaculture Act provides for several ways of increasing salmon farming capacity. The red-green government has granted closed bidding round permits in 2006, according to established criteria and use of discretion in 2009, and now in 2011 we are increasing the maximum authorised biomass in Troms and Finnmark. It shows that we're doing this in several different ways. As regards the 2009 allocation round, I would like to conclude by agreeing with the proposers that the procedure in the Fisheries Directorate took too long. Of course, this is something we look at in order to learn on a later occasion, and in this context, the Directorate for Fisheries has now carried out an evaluation of the allocation round. In addition, the treatment of the 2011 State budget determined that, after an overall assessment — among other things — it should be considered as an ‘advantage’. because it had been so long – granted additional authorisations to the four applicants who lost the undertakings for authorisation in the context of the complainants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e287	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e290	I didn't intend to go into what had to do with the withdrawal of concessions, because there's the Council of State, so what's being spoken from the Parliament's pulpit in that regard, is well to another Council of State because of the instability. My question is addressed to the Committee by the Council of State of 19 November 2010. The Council of State writes the following: ‘In addition to assessing the wording of the provision for an infringement fee, it may also be appropriate to consider whether or not the infringement fee is applicable. other proposals for amendments. I would therefore like to consider further promoting a Prop. L, which can be submitted to the Stortinget at the earliest in spring 2011.’» What is common in this Chamber, if one disagrees with a proposal that lies, and does not intend to follow it up, is to reject the proposal. If you consider things or maybe have things under work, you tend to attach it to the protocol – at least in the years that I have been here. I have the following questions to the Council of State: What is it in the comments and in this proposal that makes the parties of government think that this is not a way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e304	For the sake of order, the President has to draw attention to the fact that the Council of State is not part of the position in the document we are dealing with, but to the extent that the Council of State wants to give its political assessments of the suspension, the Council of State will have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e308	As I also said in my post, I will not, as the Council of State, interfere with the decisions taken in this Chamber. The background to the proposals and decisions taken here is a discussion that I have not participated in. But with the background that I strongly consider presenting a case to the Stortinget where we are going to go through the case complex, there will be an opportunity to debate that question again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e313	In another letter to the Economic and Social Committee, on 23 February, the Council of State wrote on who should charge the fees for infringements and who should be the Board of Appeal, answering a question on this subject that ‘The Directorate of Fisheries and Regional Offices is formally and effectively to be considered as separate administrative bodies’ — since the Directorate of Fisheries may delegate competence to other administrative bodies in relation to the complaint. I don't dispute that it's formal and real. But how does the Council of State think that this is perceived by the actors, who may not then go into the formal bases, but more sees how they are treated? Does she see that there might be a legal security problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e318	I do not believe that these are the levels that are being debated – the level at which the different decisions are taken. However, what is clearly being debated is equal treatment at the same level in the different regional offices, the fact that the various regional offices have the same practice. I can see that you're being treated in a non-discriminatory way there. That's absolutely my impression of the input I've received from the industry. From my time in the industry, I also have to say that you are concerned about whether there is a difference between whether you live in regions in the north or in the south. Therefore, it is important that we put up with a handling that will make the different regional offices know which – to say – cookbooks are to be used in issuing an infringement fee. It is natural for regional offices to do so, and for the Directorate of Fisheries to be an appeal body.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e323	I want to ask questions related to the award round for new concessions. The councils opened up to it by commenting on what had to do with allocation rounds. Then, among other things, the Councils of State said: that she agreed that the review period in that case – it took a year if it was not longer – was too long. My question to the Council of State is as follows: In connection with this type of complaint, what does the Council of State consider an acceptable time of treatment to be? In these cases, significant investments are involved, including: the withdrawal of concessions. My question is concrete: what does the Council of State think is an acceptable treatment period?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e330	Just because we are absolutely sure of what I agreed with: as the representative was involved, the sustainability discussion is related to parts of that allocation round. What I agreed to is that the ordinary allocation round in 2009 took too long. The last section of my article went on the allocations to the four applicants mentioned and what the government had done, and I did not agree with or disagree with it – so we have it clearly. Of course, when it comes to acceptable treatment, it has to vary with the number of cases. Those we saw in the 2009 allocation round were a large number of cases and not least a large number of complaints. Then, of course, things take longer. We can't have a fishing director who's rigged to take that on a tight arm in a very short time. That being said, I must continue that one year – the time it took there – is absolutely too long. So I'm going to get ready to set dates and deadlines on this, but that we get down the procedure time, is absolutely a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e337	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e342	I feel the need to say that I appreciate the articles of the Council of State. The Council of State takes a different view from that of the majority of the Committee, at least in its proposal for a decision. In its letter of 19 November 2010, the Council of State wrote to the Committee that it considered the presentation of ‘a Prop. L, which can be submitted to the Stortinget at the earliest in spring 2011.’» The Council of State has referred both to her letter and her statement today that she agrees with many of the issues raised. Then it would have been reasonable if the government parties in Stortinget had also been able to show it through their proposal for a decision. This is still possible, because the proposal which the signatories have already made on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party can be supported. But at least I hope – I see now that the representative Holmelid has signed up for me on the list of speakers – that Holmelid can at least indicate that the positiveness shown by the Council of State in this matter also applies to the government parties in Stortinget, and that you see a little more positive about it than you can get in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e349	We are a liberal plural, so I suggest that we change the position of the plural from rejecting the proposal to add it to the protocol. It has its background in, for example, the clear signals that came from the Minister that the cases will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e354	The President then notes that if none of the others behind the proposal protests at the change in the position of the rapporteur, it will be taken into account in the vote later today. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e372	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e381	The Committee has examined the draft representative, document 8:38 S, from the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Line Henriette Hämdal and Øyvind Hope for more binding environmental measures for the farming industry. Let me first give tribute to the Christian People's Party, which not only in this matter, but all the time, I think, in the debate on aquaculture shows a strong commitment to the environment and sustainability of the industry. It's an engagement that's easy to share, but the instruments can of course be different. It's natural, and I'll come back to that. The proposers have made five concrete proposals in this position which address increased requirements for industry in terms of escape, disease, pollution and emissions. Penalties are sought in relation to the proposals. Closed maritime installations or equivalent levels of safety are sought and public funds and economic charges are sought to achieve the development outlined in the proposal’s background. I expect that the Christian People's Party itself will explain and justify its proposals, and that, on its part, the government parties will do the same in terms of their sustainability strategy in the area. I must also say in this case that aquaculture is one of the modern Norwegian success stories – Norwegian raw materials with advantages in pure nature, clean water, located mostly in District Norway and an ever-growing export market. It's an industry that should definitely have our greatest attention, and so does it. But this value creation needs to be ensured and further developed. It is an industry that produces food both for our country and for the world around us at a time when food crises are almost daily newsreading, caused by natural disasters that come almost close as hail in different parts of the world. The industry is completely without any state subsidies. We're used to the reverse in food production in our country. It is a fast-growing industry, and with success – because it does. It will always be in the spotlight of the public debate, and it should be. That is why I agree with the rapporteurs that environmental requirements should, of course, also be imposed on industry. It's also going to be done. However, it is also necessary to require the authorities to facilitate a law that is practical and that environmental requirements and other requirements are compatible with the development of the industry that benefits an ever-increasing value creation. We must never forget that balance. Therefore, it is not exactly as the proposers say in the proposal that economic sustainability and environmental sustainability go hand in hand. It is enough here that the market and industry are often at the forefront and that legislation and requirements need to be adapted gradually. It is natural that it is the private initiative that comes first. But it also means that there is a significant responsibility on the industry itself to adapt to the environmental requirements that come eventually. However, the requirements must also be realistic. Many of the requirements proposed in Document No. The 8-proposal, it's announced by the Council of State in her statement to the Stortinget that you'll look at it more closely. As the Council of State said in the previous case, the entire political environment is committed to having a sustainable aquaculture industry that can grow. In addition, the Gullestad Committee has just delivered a thorough report dealing with the location of the industry in the future. After all, we will be able to discuss the hearing on this report and any proposals that will be made here later. So once again, I want to express concern about the many cracking issues that can be observed from the management regarding the environmental side of this industry. This is important. I underline it again. Various agencies, directorates and institutes questioned the suitability and credibility of measured values, methods, objectives adopted and, in part, the credibility of each other. That is why I have reason to argue that the organisation of the management of the aquaculture industry can itself be a danger to the environment, but also to the sustainability of the industry itself. The lexus debate is a good example of this. The level of noise has been too high from management to provide a good basis for policy-makers to adopt clear, well-founded environmental requirements that take account of industry's growth and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e398	There have been many important debates in this room over the last few years on the environmental challenges and opportunities of the farming industry, which have been discussed by many in the previous case and in this case. Last time, the debate following the Minister for Fisheries's agro-political presentation in the United Kingdom was just a little late. So there's no doubt that there's a lot of interest in this industry, and that's good and completely in place. It is therefore also natural that the conditions under which further development is to be carried out are increasingly the subject of public debate. The Minister for Fisheries gave a good account of the government's policies for this important industry, the environmental challenges and general measures in the aquaculture industry. I have recorded that there is a cross-political will to get this industry as robust and sustainable as possible, which in turn will provide sustainable growth. I am pleased that we have a fisheries minister who is very concerned about these challenges, who also knows what this is about and what is at stake if we do not have a good policy in this area. It is important to keep an eye on developments and to take action if necessary. The sustainability strategy shall underpin the sustainable management of Norwegian aquaculture. This is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. There are five main areas of concern: genetic impact in wild fish due to escape, pollution and discharge, disease including parasites, land use and feed resources. The different measures vary in form and character. Some are followed up in the short term, while others have a longer term character. Several are already in progress or started up. Let it be clear: this government is very concerned about the environmental challenges in the industry. Follow-up to the sustainability strategy is therefore important, now and in the coming years. As the Minister for Fisheries said in his letter on the matter, environmentally friendly operations are a prerequisite for long-term growth and development in the aquaculture industry. It is therefore good that there is now a consultation of proposals for reinforced technical requirements for food-fishing plants. In addition, there is a great deal of excitement about what is coming to the so-called Gullestad report that is now out at the hearing. The mandate of this sample was to propose a new overarching spatial structure, which will contribute to the sustainable and efficient exploitation of the land by the aquaculture industry with a minimum environmental impact and risk of infection. In addition, the government has proposed an increase in the appropriations for the development of environmental technologies in 2012. If this industry gets shot in a good way by the industry itself and the authorities, I'm sure it has the right of life. It already plays an important role. Given that the world's population will increase enormously in the coming years, this industry will play a significant role in the world's food production. I will end in the same way as I did in the debate after the Minister for Fisheries' statement. The aquaculture industry has good opportunities to continue its positive development of production, but must be prepared at the same time for the authorities to lower their feet if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e421	The central party held its national meeting last weekend. At that national meeting, it was agreed that the level of self-sufficiency of food should be increased. This is tense, it's exciting, and it shows that the party lacks complete understanding of reality. I will explain this in the following way: Norway today exports 37 million meals of food every day. If that's not self-sufficient in food, I don't know. Norway is probably doing its part in that field. And hopefully this, as it looks now, will continue to increase, but then we have to make sure to put the conditions right. Fish is also food. Yeah, not only is it food, it's also healthy food. Fish have many good qualities, such as: meat does not have. On 22 February we had a longer debate in Stortinget about the prospects and opportunities for Norwegian farming. It was a debate related to the statement by the Minister of Fisheries on 17 February, a statement for which I will give the Council of State credit. It showed that you are actually interested in this industry in such a way that you have the opportunity to develop further, but also in such a way that you point out that the industry has challenges, it has challenges that we have to find a solution to. But I have to say, unfortunately, that when I look at the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made here related to closed installations, I have to ask the question: Where are you going to pick up the area from? A mercenary today can be up to 40 meters deep, and it has a significant perimeter. If you're going to take it up ashore, we're going to talk about the size of a football field. When you multiply this times eight to ten times, and you're going to put these next to each other -- yeah, it's quite obvious that we have some challenges going on. But there's a lot of exciting projects going on out there. One of the projects is, among others: putting a set-up of fish into a tunnel, with full cleaning. There are also suggestions on how to keep the fish a little longer on land before you put it into the sea, to bring down the number of days that the fish is standing in the sea, in terms of lice, better planning etc. Instead of going almost exclusively to the whipping variant, to which the Christian People's Party here puts up, you should also look at other things, like, for example. More opportunities to provide test concessions in food fish production, to be able to look at alternative ways of doing this: there may be set-aside fish plants, it may be on land — many different ways. Because I think in the situation we're in, the industry itself is going to come up with a series of measures and proposals on how we can get better and how we can mitigate the conflicts we have in the community today. Because we have to do something about that. Last week we could read in the Sunnmørsposten that Bringsvor Laks has now sold its business. They simply couldn't do more of the bureaucracy. There were constant orders that were put down over the head. It said to read in the Sunnmare post last week. It brings me to the Goldenstad Committee's setting. Part of what's lying there, these little actors are going to get into a mess if we just go in for the measures that have been taken there. That is why the signed and advanced party have said that we must at least make sure that we have an impact assessment before we go to the implementation of what is in the Goldenstad Committee's setting. We also have to assume that the proportion of escaped fish has fallen significantly in recent years. There's been fewer fish escaping. Then, of course, we can also thank our Lord for the fact that the escape that happened up on Hitra happened at a time and with a fish of a size that hopefully makes it of little importance to the river. We'll all cross our fingers for that. Even in the case of lice, it is quite obvious that we have a major challenge, and then we have to make sure that it is researched, both on vaccines and on different types of treatment. I have just met a company that looks at it in one way, namely heat treatment to get the loop to release it. There's a lot of exciting happening out there. But let's take time, let's not rush into something that we don't see the consequences of. And let's get an impact assessment, and then we'll get to the goal well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e444	Norway has all the prerequisites to ensure that the Norwegian farming industry is also world-leading in the environment. However, this requires plans for long-term structural changes in the regulation of the farming industry. There is a need for a plan for transition to an environmentally sustainable farming industry with closed sea installations, or alternative measures to achieve an equivalent level of safety by 2020. We're not just locking our proposal to closed installations, because there's so much positive happening, there's a technology development in security. The Government’s 2009 sustainability strategy emphasises, as Lillian Hansen said, five main areas in which the farming industry affects the environment: genetic impact due to escape, disease, pollution and emissions, land use and feed resources. This is positive. There are five areas that have been problem areas since the start-up of the farming industry, and after 40 years of operation, it is now important to make actual changes. I believe it must now be a priority task to solve these problems by 2013. It is then sad to see that the strategy lacks clear indicators of the acceptable environmental impact of salmon farming, and that the strategy also does not have time-limits for the implementation of the different measures. I am concerned that the government's strategy will not solve the environmental challenges until it is too late. According to official figures, at the lower end of 450 000 salmon are escaped annually from Norwegian farms, but there is considerable uncertainty about the reality of these figures. A year ago, exactly, the Council of State said: ‘There are clear indications that the actual escape figures are higher than the statistics show.’ Yes, fish biologist Harald Sægrov suggests that the escape figures were at approx. 2.5 million salmon every year. Then we get uncertainty because we get as many different signals as the representative fleet mentioned. In comparison, the wild race counts 50,000 spawning individuals. Therefore, it is obvious that escaped farmed salmon and rainbow trout constitute a significant ecological pollution problem. The potential for further damage is high when we know that there are 350–400 million fish in the breeding cages and that the number is growing rapidly. An example that might illustrate the problem is the recently reported findings at Etneelva in Hordaland, where three out of four gypsum fish were escaped farmed salmon. This shows what can happen if the farming industry grows without solving the escape problem. Another major problem that still arises is emissions from installations. This consists mainly of waste feed and sewage discharges going straight into the sea from the open facilities. In the fall, TV 2 showed disturbing images from the seabed 280 metres below a site in Southfjord outside Bergen, where the seabed was heavily covered with a white coating. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea said: ‘Fresh seabed in a Norwegian fjord does not look like that.’ I believe that a number of concrete measures need to be taken to ensure a sustainable salmon farming industry. It is also time for mandatory environmental measures to be introduced which significantly improve the environmental status of the farming industry by 2013. The proposals must involve creative requirements in terms of genetic impact and escape, disease, pollution and emissions. More money needs to be allocated to research and development, in particular the development of demonstration facilities for closed systems at sea, or facilities with an equivalent level of safety. Closed systems may help to reduce the problems of escape and disease and parasite spread, as well as to address both the development of nutrition and the need for an environmentally sustainable farming industry. I believe binding environmental measures are essential both to ensure the reputation of the farming industry and the possibility of sustainable and profitable production in the long term, and to preserve the wild and sea trout in Norway. Finally, I will address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made in the document.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e471	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e474	The Government Parties have stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that further growth in the aquaculture industry will be facilitated within a sustainable framework. The strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry shall be taken into account. The debate that followed, following my presentation in February, shows that there is a broad consensus on the significance and potential of the aquaculture industry, but also on the sustainability challenges. It is precisely these sustainability challenges that were behind the government making the sustainability strategy. The sustainability strategy sets long-term objectives and contains 32 concrete measures that the government believes are necessary to achieve these objectives. Follow-up to the action of the strategy is a high priority for the government. Of the 29 measures under the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, all have been initiated. I would like to stress that we must now give the measures of the sustainability strategy time to work before we can measure their effects. One of the key tasks of the strategy is to establish policy-based measurement indicators and limit values for what is environmentally sustainable. Multi-disciplinary work is now under way in order to develop the appropriate sustainability indicator for genetic effects from escaped salmon from farming to wild salmon, and the same is happening with regard to the establishment of maximum levels for salmonids on wild salmon. Furthermore, indicators for emissions from breeding plants in geographical areas are being developed on an ongoing basis. This includes the development of the methodological basis for measuring current influence. An important part of the strategy is to facilitate the development of new technologies that provide better control of the production of marine food fisheries. Such technology development should, in my view, not focus on specific solutions, but on the challenges that need to be addressed. If we focus too much on some solutions, we will put limits on innovation, and perhaps miss out on good solutions. Today’s offshore open plant technology has been an important prerequisite for the growth of Norwegian aquaculture and has made the industry the fairytale it is. However, today's technology also has weaknesses, such as: problems with lacetus and escape. It is therefore working to develop today's farming technology and to develop alternative and more environmentally friendly solutions. This includes improving today's open sea-based technology. New and stricter rules for the technical standard for food fishing facilities have recently been consulted and work is under way on the technical standard for land-based facilities. More closed structures in the sea are also being worked on. There are today many funding opportunities for companies that want to develop environmental technologies. Norway’s Research Council and Innovation Norway have both been asked to give priority to the development of more environmentally friendly aquaculture technology. Where there is a need to test new large scale farming technologies, a research authorisation may be applied for to help develop knowledge that benefits the aquaculture industry. Such permits are defined as joint, free of charge and limited in time for the purpose. The research fund of the fisheries and aquaculture industry is financed by paying a R & D levy on the export value of Norwegian fish. An estimate for 2010 is that the farming industry has paid about 75 million. SEK in R & D fee, i.e. 0.3 pst. of the export value. The research fund of the fisheries and aquaculture industry has focused its main focus in 2011 on escape: evaluation of technological status, experience and opportunities of liquid closed facilities and development of clearance and budget-free notes. In the light of the proposal for a representative, I would like to recall that the Aquaculture Act provides for a number of possible penalties if the provisions laid down in or in compliance with the law are not complied with. In other words, sanctions systems are already in place to ensure that the industry complies with the applicable environmental requirements at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e497	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e500	The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs had little to do with what was particularly relevant to the Gullestad Committee and the Gullestad Committee. It's perhaps one of the areas in which there's going to be the most debate in the time that's coming. It's already been sent out to the hearing, I suppose. It's going to be exciting to see what comes out of it. One of the issues is zone relocation, for example: to make the whole Hardangerfjord one zone, where today you have a production of approx. 76 000 tonnes. It shall fall to 50000 tonnes within that zone. My question to the Council of State relates in particular to small and medium-sized farmers. We see today a constant purchase of the small ones. We get fewer and fewer and larger and larger actors. My question to the Council of State is this: will the Council of State ensure that, before implementing the Gullestad Committee and what is in their position, an impact assessment with a focus on small and medium-sized players is carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e507	As the representative of Nesvik correctly describes, the Gullestad Committee's position has been sent to the hearing. I've had six months of it on, and it's just to get a good and broad hearing response. There is an extensive sample work that is out now, and I hope to get a lot of good and broad feedback on it. When it comes to the relationship with the small ones, that's exactly what I said last time I was sent to the hearing in Hardangerfjord. After all, it was better to care for the small breeders than in what had been sent to the hearing earlier. I see that there is still a debate, but I also record that the FHL has been able to clarify some of the things that they were concerned about, in a meeting in the department last week. With regard to the reasons why the small sellers are doing, I think they are more. I noticed that bureaucracy was one reason. I am not going to mention individual sales, but I do not ignore the fact that the price can be tempting for anyone even at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e519	The balance between desired growth and environmental sustainability is, of course, the main issue in aquaculture and also often the problem of the Council of State. We have seen over a long time that there has been an open public disagreement in the administration about action. The whole debate on the various types of environmental action, particularly in the case of salmon, but also in the case of escape, has been fuelled by a considerable amount of noise coming from the administration. And then I think it's been a little bit better in the future. Does the government council responsible for aquaculture now feel that she has more control over the internal discussion on instruments within the administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e526	I also record that more people talk to each other better than they have done before. I and the Minister for the Environment had a seminar in which we just addressed the challenges facing the aquaculture industry in terms of the wilderness axis – a knowledge seminar to identify the knowledge that is agreed upon. And of course, in all research environments, there will be disagreement. I think that's good for research. It drives research and knowledge development in the future. It would be disturbing if the scientists were 100 pst. agree with each other. I am responsible for my part of the administration, and they know absolutely what are the arenas they're going to be. They have to be clear on the subject, and then we politicians have to deal with the policy. We're still doing that in this hall, which I really appreciate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e535	I think it is positive to hear about the 29 measures that the Council of State mentions, which are out at some sort of consultation or in some way implemented. What I'm asking is why this resistance to setting deadlines for what is acceptable environmental impact on the various sustainability areas? Why not put more force behind the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e540	I have probably answered that question through my post. First of all, I believe that the development that is taking place through the research environment, the meeting and development of the research environment and industry, is good. I am not going to set deadlines for neither researchers nor entrepreneurs in good environmental technological development. I think that's a job that has to go its own way. And then I use the tools that I have to influence. As I said, both the Norwegian Research Council and Innovation Norway have been asked to prioritise funds for that type of research. So I guess I'm one of those who sets the clearest deadlines of all. Because what I've said to the industry is that before the industry has control, especially with lice, which has been the big big problem, there will be no growth. It's a language the industry understands, and I feel that the industry has definitely taken over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e551	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e554	On 13 March 2009, the power was switched off in Søderberghallen in Hydro’s plant at Karmøy. Thus, production in the very last electrolysis cell with old Søderberg technology at Hydro ceased. As a result, a technology shift took place in an aluminium industry with a long history of strong development towards increasingly environmentally friendly solutions in Norway. The development and the change that occurred that day was the result of a deadline. It was the result of an active industrial policy and an active environmental policy. The aluminium industry, in line with the process industry – I can mention the oil industry as another example – is the result of a dynamic between the industry on the one hand and the authorities on the other hand, where we are actually making demands, telling where the list should be for this to be sustainable, for this to be acceptable. Then it's up to the industry to show you that you can skip the list set by the authorities. The state of the wild axis in Norwegian waters and Norwegian waters is serious. We know that many of the populations we have are facing an uncertain future. Is the farming industry the only reason for this? No, it's not. There are many reasons why we are in that situation. But one of the factors that we actually have control of is the regulation of the farming industry. It obliges us, it obliges the industry, but it also obligates the Norwegian economy. We must be responsible to biodiversity and to international conventions. We have to be responsible for future generations. The only time that the Minister of Fisheries can show that she has set a deadline – requirements related to deadlines – is linked to the further growth of the industry, not to the actual environmental impact of the industry today. Then we hear that the Progress Party is almost whizzing about the proposals that the Christian People's Party has to deal with today. But when the Progress Party and Harald T. Nesvik themselves are to refer to the state of the wild axis, he uses expressions like «thank you Springlord», «cross the fingers», etc. It probably shows you how far away from the precautionary principle you are in that party. In fact, in order to be sustainable in the long term, the breeding industry needs to experience a dynamic between the industry's own development and the ability of the authorities to set requirements and deadlines for development, resulting in technological change, pointing towards the next generation of farming. It deserves Coast Norway, it deserves Norwegian farming, and it deserves the wild and future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e569	The proposers propose five different measures to promote the aquaculture industry and improve the reputation of an industry that has gradually become one of the major contributors to both food and economics. District and country benefit from large revenues, and the export value is quantifiable. In other words, the industry strongly supports the welfare society that we are all concerned with developing further. The industry has had its ups and downs over the years, and just now it has an ups and downs that generate record income. But the industry has also had its heavy years where many people have bukka under various reasons. However, economic challenges in terms of public demand and low product prices are specific for most bankruptcies. Therefore, it is immeasurably important that this important industry should not be imposed which neither produces the environment nor improves the carrying capacity of the aquaculture industry. As an example of a misguided measure, a number of measures have been proposed to move this industry ashore in order to remove the problem of escape and salmonid blooms. This is both an animal solution and a poor solution. The land demand will be almost unmanageable, and the energy consumption of pumping water will make this industry unprofitable in many places. But it doesn't relieve the industry of the responsibility to make sure that the uncontrolled escape that we recently experienced, which many here have referred to earlier, is unacceptable. Very often we see that such injuries, with the following escape, occur by service boats or wellboats their activities at or near the bitches. It seemed strange that the industry is unable to put routines around this type of activity that prevent escape. Too often we have seen damage, with the following escape, as a result, and it is completely unacceptable. When it comes to other challenges, such as salmon, we see that large resources are being put in place to solve this problem, and the willingness of the industry to take this seriously is clear. Then we're expected that the research environment and authorities, along with the aquaculture industry, will be able to deal with this problem too, so that the wild species also have a future. For no one, and not the Progress Party, wants to outstrip this part of the natural and recreational diversity represented by the wild race. So some words finally about the bottom of the sea under some of the facilities. No feeding of any size can be done without seeing traces in nature. The agricultural industry is an example of this. There's also a lot of emissions, depleted, from cities and agglomerations, but it doesn't get the same amount of attention. DN, the Directorate of Natural Management, is not quite as clear there. Then the goal will be to minimise environmental impacts for the aquaculture industry as well, through resilient measures that are all lit up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e582	It is sad that the representative, Mr Håbreek, was not present when we debated this matter on 22 February. Then he had been able to participate when we were just discussing the overall perspective of the case, and when we went through a number of different actions. The statement related to the evacuation on Hitra is probably not my own. It is actually the marine research institute's statement in connection with the Committee's visit to Bergen, where the Marine Research Institute just pointed out that this escape took place. We should be glad that it happened at the time it happened, because it has to do with the problem of heating in the river etc. to do, and that this fish, hopefully, can have little effect on it. Every person in this room expects, and wants and will work for, that there should be the least possible escape – yes, preferably no escape as it can be done. For this reason, the undersigned has just challenged the Council of State that in situations such as this. wellboats are up to mermaids, and since there is a greater likelihood of tearing in the sea wall or destruction of the sea wall, camera surveillance of these operations should actually be imposed, precisely because immediate action should be possible in the event of such events. If you wait two or three days and then discover that the fish have escaped, it's too late. It's quite obvious that things should be done. The Progress Party has also called for an effective look at the possibility of setting up a catch fund precisely in order to give priority to the recapitulation of escaped farmed salmon. We don't have that today either. We also need to look at some other measures. It is clear that when it costs NOK 40 kg for salmon, it goes without saying that the one who is most interested in not escaping the salmon is actually the breeders themselves. Therefore, we must not say that it is the breeders who are the cellars, who can almost get the impression that some people who stand on this pulpit believe. One thing that worries me, and I could imagine that one at least researched a little bit more on, is the salmonnus and the determination of the lice numbers for the industry, either the number of female lice sitting on the fish, or the moving lice. In the case of the low numbers we've seen in periods when we haven't had problems with smolt, it can be because there's been too many debugs, which makes the lusa resistant to the medicine you're using. In every case, we should look at this because we need to get rid of the escape and the loop problem. I think everyone in this room will agree on that. Some people don't have the fasitism any more than others, but I think you should actually listen to each other. It is also very important that the representative of the fleet has been involved earlier today, namely that it is important that the administration speaks with one voice outside, that they do not cause confusion about what is the right procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e597	Øyvind Hope is now the last recorded speaker. When the president takes note of it and informs it, it's not like an invitation, but as an information.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e602	It is okay that the words used by the representative Nesvik earlier in the debate related to evacuation. was a quote, but when, in combination with such cash, one rejects the Christian People's Party's proposal for further development of the environmental standard in the farming industry using that kind of quotes about escape, invited it to a reply from the undersigned. Then I have to say that the commitment of the Progress Party to the environmental challenges of the farming industry has increased beyond the debate, and I am very pleased about that. But the Christian People's Party is still waiting for the concrete actions of the Progress Party that are actually sufficient to address the problem. Fishing funds are good and good, but there is a lack of concrete measures that are actually proportionate to the need. I would also like to stress what was said about the fact that someone believes that those in the industry are almost manufactured as boiler rings. At least I haven't seen that in the debate. The Christian People's Party has the very opposite starting point, as is also evident from the proposal. It is actually our intention that just by making demands and showing the way for further development of what is sustainable standards for farming along our coast, we show what is responsible industrial policy for the farming industry. That's what shows the way forward. I referred to the example of the aluminium industry, which has experienced the same thing, and therefore today can travel around the world and say that we have the world's purest aluminium industry. I can mention the Norwegian oil industry, which in the early 1990s was subject to a CO2 tax, which was met with noise from the industry, but which led to a few years later when the Sleipner gas was to be taken up, the CO2 was eliminated and the CO2 was deposited as a result of the CO2 tax. Now you travel around the world and market it as a leading project internationally. There is the dynamics between industry and authority as it should be. We do not see enough of this in the farming industry. I believe that the debate here has been quite good. There is a fear of setting deadlines. There is a fear of making tough demands, but you hope that the villa is doing well. Some regulations and technical requirements are further developed, but there are no requirements for putting in place the next generation of farming industry, which is forward-looking, and which can be operated without the noise, noise and environmental problems that we have today, but which are a safe and safe industry. It requires an active environmental policy, and it requires an active industrial policy. In this area, it actually goes hand in hand by setting the requirements we have made. Finally, I would also like to make it clear that the Christian People's Party has not made technology-specific demands – we have said closed installations or equivalent safety levels. We don't want to point out the winner in the technological development that's going to happen, but we want to make demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e627	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e631	Sometimes it is best to have read the settings you are handling when you say what others think. I would like to quote from page 3 of the vote, which reads the following from the Progress Party: ‘These members will wait to promote new and stricter environmental requirements for the farming industry until one has seen... the hearing opinions on the Gullestad report’, just to see what is coming, before making new demands. If there are more stringent requirements than today, there is a need for a different type of legislation and another type of instrument. We can't just do as the Christian People's Party does, without having seen exactly what this selection comes with, what kind of input will come there, before we're going to take it a little bit here and a little bit there. That's why we're waiting for it. In addition, it is not always wise to set these deadlines either. I think the government has also learned through certain things that happen in Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e640	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e656	There is no proposal for a debate. That means that the first speaker, the representative of Per-Kristian Foss, who is the rapporteur on the matter, has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e659	I will neither take it as an appeal nor as a threat. It's an interesting report from the National Audit Office this time as well. This applies to the control of companies in which the State holds large holdings or is the sole owner in 2009, but also in some areas with prospects for a longer period than one year. In all respects, it is a unanimous committee that supports the criticisms of the Riksrevision on the points raised by the Riksrevision. There's some nuances, but they're not going to support the Riksrevision. In some areas, a majority of the committee actually goes a little further than the Riksrevision – I'm going to point it out. I'm going to focus on three things. First of all, the criticism that I thought was almost unnecessary for the Riksrevision to correct. When the Riksrevision itself has the right to participate in general meetings of the joint companies together with those representing the State interests, they must at least receive a call. It should be elementary for companies that know the law. But the Riksrevision has received a copy of the notice for only 14 out of 36 jointly owned companies before the general meeting took place. It's a kind of neglect that, to put it another way, is really more embarrassing, but that might reveal that the companies are not aware of the legislation, they don't have it under the skin, to say it like that. My second point concerns the question of the implementation of State-owned corporate social responsibility. You often use English terms about this, but I'm going to stick to the Norwegian language and call it what it is, social responsibility. But that also applies, of course, in companies beyond the state sphere. But the Stortinget has dealt with this on several occasions, and the Riksrevision is criticising a few important points. We are not satisfied that many of the companies surveyed have very little integrated those parts of social responsibility that they themselves consider relevant in their business strategy. Should it really be implemented, it must be part of the business strategy, it must not be part of a kind of decoration of cake that you do next door, but that does not affect the taste itself, to keep me in that picture. On another point, the National Audit Office also addresses criticism. They point out that there are no systems that control risks in the supply chain, i.e. goods and services are purchased in violation of social responsibility rules. After all, it is essential for private industry to carry out checks in the supply chain. In fact, a fairly large supply business has been developed by companies specialising in the sale of such control services to other companies, where smaller enterprises may not have developed speciality enough to carry out that type of control activity. But it's very important. For everyone like today, for example. If you buy clothes from China, it is essential to monitor that the supplier also follows up the company’s social responsibility and business strategy. But here the criticism is strong, also from the Riksrevision, in terms of the leased state companies. The Committee also takes the view that it is critical that the Ministry of Ownership still does not have sufficient knowledge of the social responsibility of the companies. In fact, it is relatively consistent that companies that are not under the Ministry of Economic Affairs have, at least, less awareness of business strategy, social responsibility and management pay rules than those that are directly within the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Or in another way: when a State Council promotes a large-scale notification to be applied in several areas, communication on the principles of this Communication appears, in this case, for example: social responsibility and wage principles, not to be sufficiently well communicated to the other departments. Or maybe there's no communication there's a lack of, but that's in terms of the awareness that you own, or are responsible for these principles, it fails. My third point then naturally leads to the wage development of state companies. That's where the National Auditor's perhaps corrects the strongest criticism. The general findings are that the trend in wage management has been twice as high in the surveyed state companies as the overall trend in wage management over the same period, 2007–09. In spite of the fact that the Storting has dealt with an adjustment, a big message, which sets clear rules for wage developments in the period, this does not seem to have had an effect, at least not the intended effect. One might also think that it had improved in the period 2007-2009 than it had been in the period before. It turns out not to be the case either. There is, at this point, a unanimous and strong criticism addressed by the Committee. Points include: in the notion that there are considerable variations in the understanding of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade’s guidelines on State ownership, the attitude towards executive pay. This applies to fixed remuneration, bonus schemes and pensions. The Committee has carried out a consultation in this area. I have to say that the hearing, although it only covered a selection of companies, fully confirms that not all directors have state rules on government ownership and management pay under the skin in the same way. I'm not going to start going into individual companies here, but let me just do a couple of examples. When Statoil merged into Hydro's oil business, it was used as an opportunity to make a somewhat significant increase in the leading wage in Statoil. At that time, the principle of not being wage-leading was no longer present. This was one of the reasons why, in the 2007–2009 survey, Statoil made a somewhat significant increase in a leading wage that was very high in advance – not very high in relation to international companies with foreign ownership, state ownership or private ownership, but in relation to what is happening in Norway for large companies. And let me say that if comparisons were to be made internationally, the management salaries in Norway are probably at a low level — but they also do pay at the middle management level. So I think it's a very bad argument to say that you have lower management wages in Statoil than in, for example. Shell, Exxon or another big company. But neither is the departure of Norwegian leaders to foreign companies very large, there is no large queue of those recruited. Actually, it's a relatively national environment from which to recruit. I would like to add for myself a few comments on why the companies do not take the state's guidelines seriously. First of all, I think it's because the companies are concerned not to be lower management wages than private companies within the same sphere – to the extent that it's private companies to compare with. This applies in cases such as: the country's real estate company Entra, which operates in a market that is otherwise entirely private. The real estate market is probably an area where management wages are partly quite high, but I can't see it as a reason in itself for a purely stately – 100 pst. – owned companies need to be in line with private individuals, to be wage-leader in the industry or to break the government's management pay system. Another factor that I think is contributing is that all of these companies use private so-called headhunter companies to get candidates. The task of the headhunter companies is, among other things, to help potential market leaders get new jobs and higher wages. Of course, the headhunter companies are not specifically required to comply with the government’s rules of management’s remuneration or guidelines – and therefore come up with candidates who may have higher pay requirements than the management pay system makes it natural to offer. I think it's important that the board of directors here may act in a somewhat more specific way towards the headhunter companies concerned. Finally, the hearing also called for a company which was not subject to the control of the Riksaudition. It was the company Argentum, which is a 100 pst. State-owned investment companies – to put it simply. It was revealed in the press that the company has established a side company – an investment company – called Bradbenken Partner, for its employees. The scheme here operates in such a way that Argentum receives only normal returns on its invested share of this company, while the employees receive more return. Thus, the risk to employees is low in relation to the amount invested, while the potential for high returns is significant. The return over the last few years has been about 18 pst. This is a special type of bonus arrangement. A majority of the Committee says very directly that this scheme ‘does not comply with the decisions and signals of the Storting on the remuneration of managers in public companies’. Right is not in the majority who say this, because I'm a little bit in doubt if the Stortinget has expressed itself so specifically in the form of decisions that these types of companies are not permitted in state-owned whole-time or joint-owned companies. What is at least a fact is that this gives a side bonus scheme, which is contrary to the intentions behind the management of the Stortinget. The strange thing about the matter is – and there are formulations on which the Right is involved – that on 1 February of this year, when this system became known – at least to the public, the Council of State of the VG expressed ‘strong scepticism of the system’. During the hearing, it was found that this scheme had been cleared with the Ministry both in 2005 and 2007, and also in 2009, under the current State Council. During the hearing, it appeared that the Council of State, having considered it, would not do anything about the scheme. I look forward with interest to the Council of State's presentation of what he thinks. I think it's an advantage that the Council of State and the Department say the same thing, and that the Council of State's statements in the press are not seen as anything more than the ministry's position. I also await the response of the Council of State to the observation by the majority of the Committee, although it is not a decision, that the bonus scheme for Bradbenken Partner AS in Argentum is contrary to the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e695	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, the representative, Foss, for a very good work on this position, which is largely unanimous. I also want to join very much of what he said. As the position shows, and as we heard from the case rapporteur, the Committee has held a hearing on one of the themes mentioned in Document 3:2, namely the development of remuneration and other remuneration for managers of state companies and groups with a significant State ownership. We had everything from Entra to Hydro, which covers two different types of companies in this context. It was an interesting experience. What was perhaps most surprising – it probably shouldn't have been – or thoughtful, was that the directors of five companies in the hearing referred to the management fees as a niche market. Or, in another way: the directors referred to the management salaries as part of a limited market and not in relation to wage developments elsewhere in society. This is going completely wrong and, in my opinion, is also breaking with the Storting's treatment of the 2007 ownership announcement, namely that the trend in leadership pay should be reasonable and moderate – competitive, yes, but not pay-leading. Leader pay shall contribute to the moderation of the overall wage development. It is also to show social responsibility, which is also another part of this document from the National Audit Office. Although no directors from health companies were in the hearing, I would nevertheless point out that yesterday VG had a larger look at the trend of senior pay in health businesses. Not to score cheap points, but really the managing directors of health companies are going to earn twice as much as the responsible state council, plus various benefits and millions of parachutes, unannouncement and I don't know what? Anesthesia nurse at Aker University Hospital says to the newspaper: ‘There have been watertight bulkheads between us and the top managers’. Right, that's exactly what's going on. These senior executives are in a pay bubble and define their own pay and working conditions only in relation to other senior management positions, without looking at the kind of pay they have in relation to their own employees or others in health and health. Nor is it unproblematic that the head of the Hydro Group earns four times as much as the Norwegian Prime Minister — a topic that was raised several times in that hearing — as the director of Hydro, Terje Vareberg, did not have any views during the hearing. In the same hearing, the Chief Executive Officer of the NSB was asked, at the latest, by the case-rapporteur, whether customer satisfaction is part of the basis for determining the remuneration of the NSB Director. For the sake of order, he serves approx. 2.5 million. kr per year and has a pension agreement in which he can draw two thirds of his annual salary each year from the age of 60. The pay went up in the middle of the worst train chaos last year. The strengthening of this paytable is that favourable pension schemes are added to a high level of management pay. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State Trond Giske confirmed in the hearing that in the coming ownership announcement he will also include pension benefits and final packages. This is also important in view of the different decisions taken by the Storting as part of a modernised public confidence. Everyone else gets their pension. It should also be given to managers of state-owned companies and companies with significant State ownership. As the rapporteur said, however, the State investment company Argentum AS is in a special position by operating an additional bonus scheme through another company, known as Bradbenken Partner AS, in addition to ordinary pay and bonus schemes. This, therefore, considers that a broad majority of the Committee is in breach of the Storting decision when dealing with the notification of ownership. Since the case rapporteur was also in the Council of State here, I would like to stress that during the hearing the Council of State Giske said that if he had been the Council of State when Argentum was established, or taken over by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, he would not have given them a similar arrangement. He has also replied no to other similar companies – or companies, at least. Finally, a comment on a completely different matter that is mentioned in the document and in the setting. These are user payments in Innovation Norway for consultancy services at Norwegian embassies and other outpatient offices. The Committee asks that ‘cooperation be established between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in order to control the payment of the user’, because information has been collected by two out-of-office offices, shows that Innovation Norway has made payments to users in excess of the level of self-cost, and that out-patient advisory services must remain within the Vienna Convention and the Foreign Law. This means that assistance provided in the EEAS cannot be of a commercial nature. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the setting and again to the rapporteur's articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e722	Let me first thank the National Audit Office for a good audit and for good corporate control, which will enable the Committee to continue working on this. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, who, through a lengthy procedure, among others. in view of the fact that a hearing has been conducted, it has done a very good job of bringing together the Committee's comments, with the result that the Committee is largely in agreement. I also agree with the main parts of the rapporteur's statement. I actually didn't discover anything that I couldn't join. I still want to touch a couple of relationships a little bit closer. The first is management wages. For a number of reasons, the Committee has been given a major focus. A separate hearing was conducted on the remuneration of directors. It is a fundamental premise for state companies that managers are to be paid well in so far and the remuneration is to be competitive but not wage-making. The reason why this is important is that over time you've seen a number of political signals, not least from the Red-Green Government, about how important it is to show moderation when you're going to reward leaders. One of the examples of both the case rapporteur and the representative Nybakk was in there is Argentum. After all, they have an exceptional special bonus scheme in addition to the ordinary bonus scheme through the investment company Bradbenken. The case rapporteur well explained what was the starting point for Bradbenken. In summary, the result is that one with very limited own investment has the potential to generate very good returns at exceptionally low risk. At this state council Trond Giske reacted quite strongly in the World Gang on February 1. The headline of the World Gang was: «Fillerists own company». State councils were quoted a little further down in the article as follows: ‘When you have a high salary and a regular bonus scheme, I have a big problem seeing that there is a need for an additional scheme. The positions of this government on such arrangements should be known.’;» This was said by an ‘irritated State Council’. In the hearing, it became clear that not only has the Red-Green Government been informed about this bonus scheme three times, but the last time it was the Trond Giske Council that received this information. In the media, then, the impression is that the government has one policy, while in reality it is working for another policy. In the hearing, it was also clear that the Council of State had not done anything and had no intention of doing anything to change this system. Unfortunately, I have to say that it is not only in these state companies that there is a need for a clean-up; there may be a need for a clean-up also in the government's media management, so that what is said in the newspapers agrees with what is the government's actual policy. During the weekend, VG revealed, through several sides, a range of pay and other conditions in health businesses. It became clear that in the healthcare companies and hospitals that VG had investigated, there were considerable variations in wage fixing. But there was one common feature, and it was – as far as I could get along – that none of these health managers served less than the Council of State. Now I'm not as afraid as the representative Nybakk to score cheap political points, but it's a cross of thought that the person who's not only constitutionally responsible for a health company or a hospital, but who has to be responsible both politically and legally in this room for everything that's happening in Health-Norway, is at the bottom of the pay ladder among health managers. As far as I know, state councils can be cancelled in the day. They do not have any protection or termination protection, and I think they have one month's remuneration, while health business managers, in addition to a very good salary, have very good terms in their contracts. It is not uncommon for a health care professional who resigns to pay twelve months, completely independent of the reason he resigns, as a sort of final package, even when they resign voluntarily. If they are cancelled, they have the protection against dismissal in the form that they get a different job in the health company, but they keep the payroll. So they're too bad to be leaders, but they can be consultants or janitors, for that matter, and keep the management pay. I think it is quite challenging and worrying that the framework conditions of health businesses are so different that benefits are also such an important part of health managers' wages and allowances. In this debate, however, the Council of State is absent. I think that is worrying, because in this debate, the Council of State should be involved in a discussion about getting a more tidy practice, not so that the Council of State sets out leadership salaries in the health sector – that is not what I am talking about – but a certain degree of cleanliness as to what kind of benefits the Council of State considers to be proper, on which the level of wages the leaders should be on as a starting point could be interesting. So there are two hospital managers who were brought forward, who are responsible for corresponding health areas, but there's half a million in the pay gap in the purse. But then it's hard to know what the real pay is, because the treats are added. It is necessary to have better coordination in this area, in my view. Finally, I would like to say a little about one of the parts of the setting where it is this one. I want to do it by reading from Innst. 182 S for 2009-2010, which is ‘the suspension of the Audit Board’s report on the audit of the State Pension Fund for the financial year 2008’. It was the Workers' Party's Martin Kolberg who was the case rapporteur for the case, and on page 5 of the vote we read the following: «In view of the size and importance of the State pension fund Norway and the state pension fund abroad, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has previously asked the National Audit Board to intensify its work on the funds. Against this background, the Committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision has carried out an expanded audit and distinguished the revision of the Ministry of Finance's management, management, control and follow-up of the State pension fund in a separate Appendix to Document 1 [[2009-2010]] We are very much in agreement with this. Furthermore, on page 6, the Committee states: ‘The Committee further points out that the Riksrevision, under the law of the Riksrevision, Section 9, is to revise the national accounts and state funds. The audit includes the Ministry of Finance’s management, management, control and follow-up of the two funds.’;» I think these are very good comments from the committee. Therefore, I am somewhat in doubt when, in this position, the Committee – at least a majority of the Committee – seems to have a different view on this issue. I also have to quote this, to clarify what the challenge is. On page 16 of the adjustment, the following is added: «The Committee stresses the need for the Ministry of Finance to report to the National Audit Office on the management of State interests in companies governed by the Ministry of Finance, including reports on the Bank of Norway. The Committee points out that the representative of the Bank of Norway has appointed the external auditor to carry out the audit of the Bank’s affairs.’;» So far, the committee is unanimous. So the Progress Party and the Left stand out from the majority of the Committee, who writes this: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party and the Left, does not consider it necessary for the Riksaudition to carry out a check on the Bank of Norway and the State pension fund abroad.’; In my opinion, this seems to be in stark contrast to what the Committee has said earlier about the activities of the National Audit Office in relation to the State pension fund abroad and the Norwegian Bank. I am sorry that it may now seem that the Workers' Party has changed its position on this issue, and I really want to challenge the Workers' Party: Is this the original comment from the SPU control that underlies the Workers' Party's view, or is it now this last quote? I hope that's the original comment. I would also like to say – because I believe it is necessary – that, despite the fact that, in the form of a comment from a majority of the Committee, one has an opinion on the extent of the Riksrevision's work relating to a particular field, the Riksrevision cannot consider itself bound or advised to do so, for at least in the opinion of the Progress Party, this would be contrary to the law on the Riksrevisions Section 9. So if the majority of the committee actually believes what this remark says, then one has to go the way to change the law. It has not been done in this context, which must mean that the Riksrevision will continue with ‘business as usual’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e776	I also feel the need to thank both the case spokesman for thorough work and, not least, good questioning skills in connection with the hearing and the Riksrevision, of course. But the whole committee has also worked well in this matter. Honour the whole committee on this matter! So the case spokesperson was inside at three main points, and it was essentially the same main points that I want to mention. The only thing is that the Riksrevision actually has to be invited. I consider that to be a matter of course to be settled, in which the company is clearly informed that the Riksrevision will be invited. I suggest, as the case spokesman also pointed out, that this has something to do with routines, and then these procedures have to be established. There is a common requirement from the Committee. Of course, SV is very excited about this with the implementation of social responsibility, which was Foss' point No. 2, because it's clear that if you're going to make sure that it's part of driving business, you have to get it into your business strategy. If you don't have it in there, but if you have it that decorates the cake, it won't work after the intention of the big crowd. Therefore, a grip must be taken. I also think it is important to show what the committee's plural has written about reputation, that one must be busy that these companies really act properly, that one has a proper HMS, that one does not have environmental emissions, that one does not buy from companies that work with children, etc. There are many premises that will lead the company's operations. For my own account, I would say that if SV had had had 50 pst. by the votes, I think we should have had even clearer steering signal for a part of the company when it relates to profile, for example. for Statoil and purchases that they make, and that should not have been done, and for other companies that do things that are outrageous to the general policy behind a large-scale majority. In fact, I also think that one has seen trends in this when it applies, for example. State power, which now makes it possible for State power to invest 80 billion. kr in renewable energy, where there is a clear profile of the direction in which the money is to be used. I think I have to be completely able to do in other companies, too, that we are clear in what direction we want to use our ownership. That's why the government has also said that we think it's quite okay that NSB doesn't have to pay as much dividends as others; we think the money should go to the train. We want a stronger train effort, and then we say to NSB: We take less benefit from you, but then they have to spend the money on the train. Another area where I believe this is entirely possible, and which is not necessarily the Council of State Giese's territory, applies to purchasing policy. So we're going to buy in for 400 billion. kr. The Transport Committee, for example, has been informed that we want more climate and environmental profiles on the purchases. It is fully possible to control this. This is one of the areas where SV will continue to work, but we hope that the government will also become more offensive. I agree with both the representative Nybakk and the committee leader when it comes to what is happening within health professionals and the salaries there. It has been said that the only thing that has increased after the hospital reform is the wages and hospitals. I mean absolutely that we must have a review of how we have organized the hospitals and get to a different model than the one we have today, which clearly does not work for the purpose. That debate goes too far, not least on the basis of hospital closures, childbirth – and ‘you name it’. So in the end this thing with the rent, generally speaking. I can't believe that it's going to be natural in Norway to have NOK 125 000 net in weekly money for a grown man or a grown lady, i.e. a salary of half a million a month. There's a salary level that I think is completely absurd, and that I'm sure people don't want in Norway. They want a more smooth society and not with the hard speck of what some directors think. There's nothing the Norwegian people want. I think that one of the things that becomes important in the follow-up, and I hope that the Council of State too will comment, is just what signal is now going to go out to the company, starting with the salary level. There the committee is very clear that it should not be wage-leadering. Then it's a question: when you get 1.8 million. kr in salary increase in Statoil in connection with the Hydro takeover – in two years – has not controlled the signals given by Stortinget. That's what becomes the job of the Council of State to follow up. I am very pleased that the Council of State Gieske is very clear that this with pension agreements and so on. a follow up and clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e795	I assumed a strong impatience after further increased state control from the previous speaker. Then I'll bring a test question to the Council of State. As the rapporteur went on to say, there is a very strong comment relating to Argentum. The Christian People's Party is part of this majority, because we believe that the arrangement they have, where you go into a kind of separate company where Argentum itself accounts for the bulk of the capital invested while the employees represent a small amount, but where there is a high return that the employees in full will get into, little fits with the decisions and signals about the management salaries of public companies and enterprises with state ownership that the majority of this house has fallen into. I am pleased to hear how the government will deal with this majority remark. I do not have much to add to the statements made by the rapporteur. Most of this was done — only a few simple words related to this with the development of management pay. Double the level of head pay developments in the state companies that in the private sector are the fascist after the excellent work of the National Audit Office. It's a cross of thought when the Storting has given as clear messages as you've done, exactly when it comes to this. I am pleased – as was said in the Council of State hearing – that this will be pursued further in its dialogue with the governments, including in the case of pensions. I have to say that for some industries, and then I'm also talking about Argentum, I really think it was liberating to hear the Council of State. The Council of State said in the hearing that he found ‘there’s something fundamentally strange about people getting paid first to do their job, and then they need extra pay to do their job properly. But that's what I accept, and we have to live with that. In the financial sector, there are very special systems. There you have to have extra money to do your job properly." I fully agree, and I ask myself how the state that owns and as an actor will also act in these financial markets to get rid of a culture that I think most people know completely stranger to. I would also like to hear the Council of State say a few words about that, all the time he represents a state that, with its assets – its increasing assets even – can actually have a market power to do something about this. So to this as several of the speakers – Nybakk and now Langeland – have been in: health companies. I'm sure we'll come back to that. It is not up to us to give advice to the Riksrevision, but a request can be made to the Riksrevision. When they are going to report for the current year, I would very well have seen that the Riksrevision had taken a review of the management salaries of state health companies to see if they are in line with Storting's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e811	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee's position on the National Audit Office's report on the control of State companies for 2009 is read, taken as a follow-up and followed up by the members of the Government. I think we have all read both the Riksrevision report, the consultation round of the Committee, and not least the Committee's position, with great interest. I also think there are many who appreciate the broad political consensus there is about very many of these conclusions. In total, controls include 124 companies and interactions managed by several departments. The work and references of the National Audit Office – as I pointed out during the hearing on the remuneration of directors on 11 February this year – are important and useful for the continuous work that needs to be done to improve the ownership of the country. Most of the companies under control are under ministries other than the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. It is difficult to comment in detail on all the comments made by the Committee on the management of ownership of these companies. However, I would like to make sure that the comments are known in all departments and are involved in further work on improving administration. An area where rapid improvements are needed and possible is to ensure that the Riksrevision receives a copy of the convocation to the general meeting of the leased company, in which more than half of the cases were missing in 2010. I agree with the rapporteur that this is unsustainable. I want to make sure that the procedures for this are in place and are followed both in the companies of my own department, and also in other departments, that the commitments in this area are followed up. Two of the continuous controls were linked to the exercise of government ownership policies in the field of social responsibility and wage development. I note that there is a broad consensus in the UK that the government should have high ambitions both in contributing to the moderation of wage developments in terms of contributing to improvements in corporate social responsibility and a certain impatience in relation to the speed with which improvements are to be made. As I pointed out during the verification hearing, the government is working on new guidelines for senior pay in state companies. The new guidelines will be presented at the same time as the new ownership message in a short time. Pension benefits and final packages will be the subject of the audit. Similarly, the requirement for transparency in the determination of wages and salaries in whole-scale state companies will be strengthened, so that the requirements are more consistent with those for listed companies. It is already the case that pension schemes are to be seen as a whole, including salaries, bonus schemes, etc., but there is also – as I pointed out in the hearing, which I can repeat here – the need for further tightening of national pension policies. In our ownership management, it is a very central point that we should follow the role-sharing between the Executive Director, the Board of Directors and the owners, as shown by company law and established ownership management principles. It is corporate governance that has to make concrete decisions in terms of both management salaries and the exercise of social responsibility. The government's ownership is primarily indirect, partly through the election of directors and partly by communicating our expectations. In many areas, especially with regard to the listed companies, we have seen that the government's attitude towards senior pay has been put through in the reward system. I believe that the revised guidelines will also be discriminatory for whole companies. With regard to the National Audit Office's investigations into the development of senior remuneration in state-owned companies and the Committee's observations, I would like to remind you that executive remuneration in companies with full or partial State ownership should be competitive but not pay-leading compared to similar companies. In the interests of companies themselves and society as a whole, it is important that the reward schemes for managers are effective and transparent. Furthermore, management salaries should appear as reasonable and should not result in adverse effects on the company or weaken the company's reputation. Thus, there are many considerations to be taken into account when determining and developing management wages. In the government's policy for executive pay, we have stated that companies – whether we own them alone or together with others – should be competitive in recruiting good managers, but they should be moderate and not driven by leadership wage developments. So leadership pay is not a static area where the issues are given and the answers are simple. In 2006, there was a need to tighten up the scope of option agreements in which several top managers benefited significantly from conditions beyond their control. This was halted in companies with State holdings with the new guidelines in 2006. When the government is now working on updating the guidelines, the aspects that the Riksrevision also points out in its study, which is the basis for the examination in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs today, are at the heart of the discussion. I am not satisfied with the development of the management salaries of the state companies. It is quite right, as the Riksrevision points out, that in the last two years, in particular, there has been a stronger growth in the salaries of state companies than in others. This may be due to relationships such as: is linked to the financial crisis, that these companies have been affected by the financial crisis in a different way – and perhaps less than others – and thus have less impacted the profitability of the companies and on the remuneration of managers. However, it is not in line with the guidelines, and we will follow this up with the companies. It may also be that we have even stronger opinions on this than the guidelines, for example. the view on options and variable wages. The most important thing is that variable wages vary in line with what leaders actually influence, which is the reward for their performance, and do not vary on the basis of things that are far beyond the control of leaders. We are told that these systems have come to stay in business, and that this is probably also necessary for state companies. However, it is important that the state companies are not driven by this. I also think that the control question that one of the committee's members asked the companies at the hearing – whether it is that if you did not have this salary level, you would have problems with recruitment – is the key question. When the Minister of Health earns half of what many health managers serve, it must be assumed that it is because there are several who make themselves available to be ministers of health. The struggle is hard to get that job, including from the opposition parties, and it must also be assumed that the level of pay in these other jobs is obviously necessary to recruit. But that's the control question we always have to ask: is it actually that you don't get to fill the positions with competent people if you don't have the pay level offered? If that's the answer, you could do that, then the pay level is too high. In the forthcoming announcement of ownership, we will also look at the work on social responsibility in a broad way and clarify the government's expectations of the company's work. We also want to add there to a more systematic follow-up of the companies. I have noticed that the Storting is impatient in this area, in particular that it is pointed out that the Ministry of Agriculture, other than the Ministry of Industry, must have a more systematic approach to the issue. We'll follow that up. I believe, however, that there are clear positive signs that attention in this area is bearing fruit. Several of the state companies are well aware of studies in the national and international context of sustainable operation, and an increasing number of companies are joining schemes such as Global Compact and GRI reporting. As one of several themes I want to follow up in this area, is that Argentum's activities are in line with Storting's decision. However, they must also respect the role-sharing between the owner, the board and the management, and there is also a problem here with agreements that have already been concluded. With regard to investments via tax havens, I think it's going to be okay to follow up on the Storting decision. In the case of the co-investment scheme, we will also address this with the company here. However, I must stress here, as I did in the hearing, that this was a system established before the red-green government joined. This was a scheme that we inherited when we acquired the ownership of the company. It is also true that the Ministry has never had a political approval of this scheme, but it has been a consideration of whether the scheme is legal or not. There are two slightly different things to assess the legality of the scheme and to assess the political desirability of the scheme. If this matter had come to my table before it was established, the answer would have been no – exactly identical to the answer given to Investinor when they recently wanted to establish a similar system. However, we have to make sure that these are now agreements. At least it would be to expect that the employees who have this as part of their wages and salaries will require some sort of compensation if the plan is changed. But we're going to follow this up in our dialogue with Argentum. In the case of user payments by Innovation Norwegian Foreign Offices, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will ensure satisfactory control of user payment practices in line with the Vienna Convention. Finally, let me repeat that the work of the National Audit Office is very valuable. It is good that Stortingen places such emphasis on moderate wage developments in state companies. Both the attention and the debate help us to achieve the goals we have set ourselves more easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e850	I am pleased that the Council of State signals that the Argentum agreement should be in line with the decision of the Storting. What is not quite clear, however, is whether the Council of State agrees with the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which supported the majority view, that the Bradbenken agreement is in fact contrary to the decision of the Storting. I would challenge the Council of State for a concrete response to this: does the Council share the majority's view that this Bradbenken agreement is contrary to decisions taken by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e857	When the Storting itself says that a phenomenon is contrary to the Storting's own decision, I think a government council would be in exceptionally big trouble if he were to try it out. I take note that the majority of the committee believes that this scheme is contrary to the intentions of the Stortinget against previous decisions on remuneration and bonus schemes. At the same time, this is an agreement now concluded and reached by the employees in their negotiations with the company and the management and adopted by the Management Board. Therefore, there may be private-law arrangements around this, which we also have to deal with when we are going to follow up the Storting's comments. But that we are going to deal with this with the company and try as much as possible to get the arrangement in line with what the government wants, the Storting can feel safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e865	I thank you for a good answer, but it should almost be lacking that the Council of State would not ensure that the decision of the Storting was fulfilled, and now I have been made clear that the Council of State also believes that the arrangement that Bradbenken is in the Argentum company is contrary to the decision of the Storting. In the hearing when the Council of State was challenged on this matter, the Council of State said this was not approved by the Ministry, but he said the following: ‘I would rather say that we have lived with the fact that Argentum has had such a scheme, and has not taken the initiative to do anything.’ Does the Council agree that he has been too passive on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e877	It's always a dilemma when we're still tightening the requirements. Many of these requirements came in the wake of the 2006 ownership notification. This scheme was established before that time. We will also experience when we present ownership messages in our company, that we come with further tightening, among other things. in the pension scheme, which is likely to result in some current schemes no longer in line with the new guidelines. As far as possible, we should then try to get renegotiated and find good solutions in the companies, which respect the new guidelines. At the same time, however, it is limited to the extent that we can give it retroactive effect, as this also affects private law rights, as I said in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e882	My theme also applies – Bradbenken. The council here gives the impression that this was something he discovered recently. But he didn't. He became familiar with this in 2009, and my question then is: What did the Council of State do, after he became acquainted with this, as Minister of Industry, to investigate the possibilities of converting the agreement? After all, he must have done considerable research since in February of this year – a good time afterwards – until the VG spoke out so that he was perceived as a rendezvous. They used the term "fillers own company". My question was: What has the Council of State done from the first time he discovered this to the VG Fillerist company and today – in the years that he discovered this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e887	I guess the word "fillers" isn't mine. I think that's VG's word, and unless the representative Foss has a different experience with VG than me, he knows that I have very little influence over what words VG uses in different contexts. I do not think there is anything in the article in the VG that means that I say that this was a recently discovered system. But I don't like it. I hadn't come to say yes to it if Argentum had asked to introduce such a scheme in my time as the Council of State. I don't think my predecessors would have done it either. But there's a significant difference between what you like and what you like, and what you can actually do. It is also wrong, as the representative Foss suggested in his report, that we have dealt with this system politically and approved it. We have assessed the legality of this scheme on several occasions, and that is something quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e892	Does the representative Foss want a new line?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e895	Yes, because I did not get an answer to my question. That's essentially why we have this kind of string changer, so we're going to get something clear. So that's why I repeat it: I have a significant sense of the state council's emotional life, both in relation to VG and without VG, but what has the state council done as a politician and councillor to investigate the possibilities of doing something about what he has disliked, and what is the result of that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e900	I am very uncertain as to whether the purpose of replication is always to produce new knowledge, because this question also asked the representative Foss during the hearing when we had it. So that knowledge is already known – that we haven't asked Argentum to redefine the scheme, precisely because it was a scheme we had inherited, which probably involves private law rights for those who have achieved this scheme, and that we probably had to face a claim for compensation if it were to be transformed. On the other hand, we said no when Investinor asked for a similar arrangement, and we would have said no if Argentum had made such an arrangement today. But on the basis of what the Storting now says, of course, we're going to have such a conversation with Argentum in our ownership dialogue and look at the possibilities to do about the arrangement, and what kind of costs it might entail.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e905	We'll get a little bit further. But the ownership dialogue, has it started now? As a matter of fact, there must have been a long dialogue with the company. I'm aware of what was said at the hearing, I remember it actually quite well. The reason I asked again was that I did not get an answer at the time. Has not the ownership dialogue so far involved an attempt to investigate the possibility of termination of an agreement concluded in breach of the Storting decision? Is there something you haven't mentioned in the eggs dialogue so far? For now, the Council of State says that he wants to include it in that dialogue, but there has certainly been ownership dialogue in the years in which the Council of State has been in the department, and why has nothing been done in that period? As an additional question, it might be interesting to have the Council of State assess whether the previous Council of State, which has accepted this agreement, was also bound by guidelines on state ownership, including executive salaries, which he considers to be contrary to. There's no need to answer that, but it could be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e910	I almost have to be allowed to correct a little bit of the impression that Foss is creating. First of all, he says that the agreement was concluded in breach of the Stortingen guidelines. No, this agreement was concluded before the previous ownership notification, before many of these restrictions came. So this is going to be a question of to what extent such new guidelines, new tightening, can have retroactive effect. It is therefore wrong that the scheme was concluded in contravention of guidelines. The firmer guidelines came after the agreement was concluded. Secondly, the representative says that my predecessor has accepted the arrangement. Well, there's also a sentence with certain shades. It has been accepted that the scheme is legal – so legality has been checked to see if such arrangements are allowed at all. It was found that you had, and thus you could not intervene on a legal basis and say that it had to be terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e917	Yes, I ask again the question: What has the Council of State done in the ownership dialogue that has been with Argentum so far, to make sure to investigate the possibility of terminating an agreement? It is not uncommon – even in private-law contexts – for agreements to be terminated. The question of compensation is probably a question of whether you want to keep the people you have, but this is a market where people change jobs quite frequently. So the fact that you're not employed forever is not necessarily a weakness in this market at least. So my question is again: What has the Council of State done in the Owners' Dialogue in order to implement a decision that brings the company into line with what Stortinget means?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e924	What happened was that it was noted that this agreement had been concluded before the ministry took over the ownership of Argentum, before the Stortinget tightened the guidelines. Instead, one has concentrated on saying no to new such schemes, just as one very often, when given tougher guidelines, is more concerned about what happens from then on and forward than spending a lot of time giving back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e930	As part of the majority, at least I take for granted, even with what the Council of State now says, that you want to deal with the matter and see what you can possibly do. The chairman of the Argentum Tom Knoff expressed in the hearing that they had taken note of the point of view. So they're probably prepared for any enquiry, to say it like that. And then we'll see what the downside might be to cancel this agreement. However, I wanted to get into the key concept itself, ‘competitive management wages, but not wages and salaries’. As was referred to in the hearing, there were no directors who could refer to any problems in recruiting leaders because of this rule. It could mean that leaders aren't so busy with money that you think sometimes, or it could mean that this rule is so flexible that it doesn't really matter. What interpretation does the Council of State think is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e937	I now remember that it was the representative of Syversen who asked that question to the companies. I think it's a very good question, a question we can learn from in our ownership dialogue, and we ask this control question: Is it so that you get significant recruitment problems if the salary level is different, if the reward systems are set up with a lower level of bonus schemes, etc.? As I said in my main post, if the answer to that is no, we don't have recruitment problems, you should definitely look at this salary level. I believe that the guidelines that Stortinget has been involved in creating, and that the departments follow up in their ownership dialogue, have a function. I think they're moderating. We have a different salary level, fortunately, in Norway than just looking at Sweden, and at least if we look more into the world, and we want to follow that up. The political attention and the clear cross-political consensus in the Stortinget are helping us in this job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e944	I also think it was worthwhile that the Council of State announced a closer dialogue and clearer guidelines on pensions. So my question is: does the Council of State see that this is the same principle as for pensions, as a guideline for companies, that one should have competitive pension conditions, but not pay-paying, or pension-management, to reinterpret it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e949	Yes, now it is already part of the guidelines to see pensions, final packages, bonus schemes, variable wages and fixed wages in a context. So it's not new that pensions should be considered. But we're probably going to be more concrete than just talking about pay/pension-leading and competitive pay. We're probably going to be more specific in the coming ownership message on what kind of limits are going to apply, just as we do in the case of variable pay, that it should not exceed more than 50 pst. of total wages and salaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e954	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e957	Wages and salaries have started today. We've seen in the media that Roar Flåthen and John G. Bernander are talking about expectations, but also especially about social responsibility. The NHO and the LO talk about the importance of moderation, and then we have to wait for it to apply at all stages. It is hoped that industrial workers in competitive business will also shape wage developments this year. The parties to the wage settlement are responsible for facilitating wage developments that ensure the competitiveness of industry and that ensure the purchasing power of workers. Cooperation between the parties with these elements is important and shows social responsibility. Willingness for moderation requires that the levels of leadership also show responsibility, not least where the State is the owner. In this picture, it is important that the exercise of ownership policy is controlled. Leader pay policy shall contribute to accountability. Unfortunately, we see examples of this slipping unnecessarily. Among other things, yesterday’s reference in the VG on pay among health peaks shows that health businesses have not been responsible enough for terms and conditions for managers. They have not shown sufficient social responsibility. This is unfortunate, and in worst cases it is helping to threaten the work of moderate wage-fixing for ordinary people in the future. The leadership salary level should be competitive, but not pay-leading, we have heard several times today. Fortunately, there is a cross-political agreement to keep the development of management wages under control, and the signals are clear that the owner will contribute to the election of directors who take care of the interests. Some board members need guidance here, obviously. Leader pay must be more consistent with general wage developments. Leader pay as referred to in, inter alia: health businesses are in breach of social responsibility. The increase in revenues is excessive and there is uncertainty as to whether the efforts of the leaders and user satisfaction of patients can defend such levels of pay and salary increases. Such wage developments threaten the confidence of important institutions in society. When normal employees are required to accept moderation and responsible settlement, managers must also be required to do the same. Everyone must be responsible if the nation is to maintain its competitiveness. This is essential for the provision of Norwegian business and jobs. If one is to accept wages that we see in some examples, it must be possible to measure that the manager actually achieves goals, if necessary taking responsibility for not doing so. We must counteract a culture of greed in publicly funded enterprises as well as in private enterprises. Here it looks like there's a reason to go, for example. health establishments closer to the seams.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e972	I'm not going to comment on the forthcoming wage settlement, except to say that of course I agree with the last speaker that we have to stick to the front-line model, and we're all waiting for LO's leader to come out immediately and tell us that the leadership wage development in society in general is such that it makes wage settlement difficult. He has said that in all previous pay statements, but this time he can say that the trend in management wages, especially in the companies for which the red-green government is responsible, has been alarming. He has the National Audit Office's records to say that the actual trend in senior pay here has been twice as high as that of the other corporations in society. I am not sure if he will say that, but at least he has the idea of taking it up, both at the chamber and towards his partners in the negotiations. So I'm going to comment on a couple of things that have been mentioned in the debate. Of course, I am also satisfied with the Council of State's assurance that, in the context of a new communication on ownership policy, he will also address the pension situation. I expect that he will then pay particular attention to at least one important aspect of modernising public health, namely that it should be an incentive for managers to also be more at work. It's a bad signal in society when leaders with the greatest of course and with the very biggest pensions go off at the age of 60, when you otherwise encourage the rest of the population to stand longer in work. The other thing I want to focus on is that there is probably too many pension schemes in the state companies at the management level that have been concluded without a curtailment rule if the manager would apply for a new job after departure. To combine a bold pension scheme from a state enterprise or from a state company with a new job and the sum becomes many millions of dollars, it is difficult to defend when you otherwise take a rather tough hold of modernized popular security. I have not commented on health companies because they are not included in the suspension, nor in the hearing. They are covered by one newspaper article in the VG. And yes, I also read newspapers, but it didn't tell me anything about evolution, it told me something about the level. I would like to join them in the committee and the debaters who have said that it would be interesting if the Riksrevision in a later report raised the question: Do those who now run hospitals in Norway – whether they call it the company or the individual hospital – serve more than they earned at the corresponding level when the county municipality was owned? Has progress been in that direction? Because there is a difference between health enterprises and health enterprises, in other words, between health enterprises and hospitals. The largest health business is larger than a couple-three of the largest state companies covered by this position. And as far as I can see, the female leaders of the very largest health care companies serve less than what men would have done if they had run an equal business. It's also a way to think about it, which might be a useful proposition. This does not mean that I do not generally defend the level of management pay that has been applied in health businesses, but it must, as I said, be nuanced when examining them. The chairperson of the Committee was concerned with the question of who would review the Riksaudition’s tasks vis-à-vis Norway’s Bank and the State pension fund abroad. I do not see any comment, nor the majority of the Committee's comments, which are contrary to previous comments from the Financial Committee – in no way. In the Chairman of the Committee, there was an important innovation: the National Audit Office is to review the Ministry of Finance's control of the exercise of ownership, etc. vis-à-vis the State pension fund, and it is not the opinion of the Storting that the controller, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, should also control or review the control object, i.e. the State pension fund. To that end, Norway’s Bank’s own bodies, chosen by the Stortinget, have been asked to take that responsibility. And it is committed, as far as I have understood, highly competent auditing skills to assist the representation of the Bank of Norway. Finally, there's kind of a strange remark about the NSB in the setting. It is not of the greatest interest to the present state councils, but perhaps to a Minister of Transport. The fact is that the Ministry today imposes returns requirements on the NSB. And when you set a return claim, I think it should be taken seriously. One can discuss whether such a requirement should be or not, but if the department sets such a requirement, then serious management is that it should also be met. So the government parties, with the support of a couple of opposition parties, say that it's basically all right that you break the claim to the department, just that it goes to the train. Now it's my impression that the NSB mainly operates trains, so the chance that it would go to something completely different is minimal. But this is about whether to take public governance seriously. If the Ministry considers that a return claim should be made, it should be followed. If you don't think it should be set, there's no reason to criticise the NSB, but the ministry that they set requirements that the ministry doesn't take seriously. There won't be proper governance either of one state company or another, if you're going to practice such a method.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e985	I take the floor to comment on the Chairman's statement on the Workers' Party and the position in relation to the role of the National Audit Office in the management of the State's interests in the companies subject to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Norway's Bank and Staten pension fund abroad. I want to show, as the previous speaker, the rapporteur, that this is right now, that this was clarified in the spring of 2009. It was clarified in a position of the Financial Committee, where it was a broad majority – with the exception of the Progress Party and the Left. I would also like to stress that it is of course the case that the Ministry of Finance will send a report on the Bank of Norway to the Riksrevision, but the Norwegian Bank’s representative has thus appointed an external auditor to audit the bank’s affairs. This was also made clear in the same position of the Spring 2009 Financial Committee. Against this background, a broad majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee considers that it is not necessary for the Riksrevision to exercise control over Norway’s Bank and the State pension fund abroad. Then I just have a comment on what Per-Kristian Foss said about health companies and management wages. I think what happens in health companies too is that the leadership layer is in some sort of pay bubble, that you view management wages as part of a very narrow market, a niche market if you like. You don't see your own salary in relation to the general wage trend in society, and you don't see it in relation to your own employees at all. It's just to look at what they serve, whether they're nurses at Aker Hospital or have other positions in Health-Norway. I believe that it is absolutely time – there were others who said this before me – that they might be included in Document No. 1 next year looks at exactly this with the trend of head pay in health enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e992	Only a few brief comments on the very last round of the Riksrevision audit responsibility and any limitations on it. Now it is the case that laws are passed by law. Thus, the fact that the Financial Committee earlier, and now this Committee, has considered that the activities of the National Audit Office should be restricted in relation to the law, is not sufficient to actually restrict the scope of the Riksaudition. I actually took the floor just to make it clear that the Riksrevision will continue its practice in the same way as it has done today, until these positions expressed by both the representative Foss and the representative Nybakk, and expressed in an explanatory form by the Storting, are promoted as legislative proposals and, if necessary, as adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e997	This is unnecessary in relation to the Riksrevision, but in relation to someone present, I would like to remind you that the Stortinget also expresses itself through the Roman Numeral Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1002	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1018	It is a unanimous committee that submits its opinion on the Riksrevision’s study of Nav’s follow-up to the medical report. The starting point of this survey is that persons with long-term sick leave are more likely to be permanently excluded from the labour market, and that the political rationale for establishing Nav was to increase their employment and social security. So what kind of tool does Nav have to get sick at work, whether it's full-time or part-time, whether active or not? It is, of course, encouraging employers to organise the sick, as the Riksrevision stresses. There is also a requirement for the sick to be active and to take labour-oriented measures. But it is also imposing tough demands on doctors and other health professionals to change attitudes and practices, and to make demands on themselves at the same time. In my opinion, both the Nav and the doctors must be much more concerned that it is possible to commute between job and search messages, as well as that it is too little. Active search messages and classified search messages are important actions. Yes, it's actually also that sometimes it can be better to go to work than to stay at home. I have an example from a hairdressing salon not so far from Stortinget. Lise and Lotte, to call them that, are hairdressers. Both were diagnosed, at different times, for the same reason, hurting in the neck or shoulders, because it is stressful for just neck and shoulders to work with hairdressing. Lise said: I want active search. She didn't get that from Nav. But she went to work anyway, and what did she do? Yes, of course she did the reception work. She took the phone, she ran data – all the office work. Lotte, on the other hand, was sick and was at home – and she has not returned to work after two years. Persons with long-term sick leave can quickly be permanently excluded from working life. The Committee therefore considers it necessary to take initiatives towards doctors and other health care providers, so that both classified health care and active health care services become a real alternative and that sick persons do not lose the community of which they are part. The Committee also underlines the need to raise awareness of the organisations that organise doctors, etc., for example: The medical association, and that this is followed up by the Ministry of Health to determine, where appropriate, by additions to the permanent medical contract. This is absolutely necessary when only 18 pst. has graduated search message, and only 15 pst. statistics have been provided by the Nav offices on the use of graduated search reports by doctors. There is too much information from doctors and insufficient monitoring of Nav information. The Ministry has made it clear in its reply to the National Audit Office that during the spring, a legislative proposal is being promoted with proposals for changes to the Labour Environment Act and the People's Rights Act on the follow-up of sick people, which is expected to come into force on 1 July this year. I think that's a very important step on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1035	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the work he has done on the matter and her statement from this chair here today. There is, as the rapporteur pointed out, a broad consensus in this setting. I mainly agree with the views that she took up from the pulpit. Nevertheless, there is a need to point out some aspects. It is not the first time that conditions in the Nav sector are in the spotlight of the National Audit Office and the Monitoring Committee. Both in the last two Document No. 1-treatments and in our own special reports we have had Nav on the table, and it has witnessed major errors and challenges in the sector. It is quite dramatic when we talk about a field that is so big and important for the welfare state of Norway. It was central when Nav was created that more was to be done in work and activity and less on social benefits. The follow-up of the sick person is very central to such work. The longer you go ill, the greater the chance of permanent exclusion from the labour market. That's why it's important to focus on this. The results of the Riksrevision studies are not satisfactory. There is too little use of classified search messages, dialogue meeting 2 has not been completed in many cases, it is not good enough for information, it is not followed up with reporting, etc. etc. In my one-and-a-half years in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee here at Stortinget, I have received great respect for the work of the government parties' representatives. It is not an uncritical defence of the government, but it places the conditions that arise under a critical light. It is good to take matters seriously. It brings respect from us into the opposition. But it doesn't hold that you just admit the criticism and take matters seriously. It is also necessary to act in order to correct the situation that arises, and it is clear from the suspension and comments that there are a number of ongoing measures to address the situation. There is a need for action, and it is the government's representatives who have to stand for it. So the challenge now goes to the Council of State and her people, which I hope will make sure that Nav does not become an ever-recurring matter for us in the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1048	The attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee indicates that the Riksrevision has carried out an investigation into the follow-up of the Occupational Welfare Act to the sick. The data collection in the Riksrevisionen was carried out between August 2009 and June 2010. At the same time, the follow-up of the sick person has been taken up for discussion in connection with the signature of the IA Agreement. As the Committee is aware, the government and the social partners signed a new IA agreement and protocol on 24 February 2010. In this context, the Government has already taken the initiative to implement measures that meet the National Audit Office’s observations. As you know, in a short time, the government will present proposals for changes to the Labour Environment Act and the People's Rights Act with a view to improving the follow-up of the sick. Dialogue and better interaction and information exchange between employers, practitioners and Nav are important elements of several legislative proposals. At the same time, the development of professional guidance for health care professionals is being undertaken with a view to increasing the use of classified health care messages, which are planned to be completed at the same time as changes to the laws of the Labour Environment Act and the National Social Security Act, 1 July 2011. The Ministry is actively monitoring the implementation by the State of Labour and Welfare of their tasks related to the follow-up of the sick person – apologies, by the sick, but insofar as the sick person is also involved, it will be part of the proposal we are making. In particular, the Ministry has focused on the mission's achievement in relation to the implementation of the Dialogue Meeting 2. The Committee states that action is needed to help ensure that the use of classified sick leave is the general rule, so that sick persons do not lose contact with the working community. The legislative changes and tools aimed at health care professionals build up during the increased use of classified search messages. Discussions with the parties also add up to this. It is positive that we have recorded over 2010 that a growing proportion of cases of sick leave have been classified. So in the third quarter of 2009, it was about 17.1 pst. classified non-preferential cases, while in the third quarter of 2010 there was 19.5 pst. The Committee points to the need to raise awareness of pathogens and organisations representing pathogens. In the development of professional guidance for healthcare professionals, with a greater focus on the use of classified healthcare, representatives from the Medical Association are key partners. Furthermore, there has been dialogue with the social partners and with the Medical Association on key changes in legal work. Whether there is a need for a separate supplement in the permanent medical agreement will be assessed in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The Committee refers to the lack of follow-up by the Working and Welfare Department in the evaluation of work-oriented activities after eight weeks. The National Audit Office points out that in most cases the Employment and Welfare Unit accepts that the sick person is not in activity, even though the medical reasons for inactivity have not been demonstrated by the sick person. Deficiencies in the follow-up of sick-seekers may be related to the fact that the establishment has been through a demanding reform period. A temporary increase in the number of cases in the sick leave area due to increased sick leave in 2009 has also complicated the follow-up work on the sick. The labour and welfare centre is important in the follow-up to the sick leave and has been provided with funds in 2011 to strengthen the efforts of sick-seekers who need follow-up early in the disease notification period. At the same time, it must be pointed out that it is the employer, in cooperation with the employees, who have the primary responsibility for the follow-up and organisation of the sick in the establishments. This is also followed up by the authorities through the work of the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate supervises the compliance of enterprises with the rules of the Working Environment Act also in the case of sick leave. In recent years, the Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened to follow-up, in particular, the IA and sick leave of enterprises, and the agency has, among other things, carry out specific initiatives in sectors with a high level of sick leave. The follow-up of sick persons by the State of Employment and Welfare is followed up by the Ministry through the activity reporting. The floor shall include, inter alia: report on the proportion of sick persons on graded benefits after nine weeks of sick leave and the proportion of dialogue meetings carried out for sick persons within 26 weeks. A particular problem is sick people who lose their employer. There is a high risk of transition to long-term social security benefits. This is a group that needs to be given special priority and that belongs to the group of sick-patients who need follow-up early during the sick-disease period. The follow-up of the sick person is a priority task in the Working and Welfare Unit. At the same time, it is important to stress that all actors in the sick leave follow-up have a separate responsibility to follow up their obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1069	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1085	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1094	The representatives of Leirstein and Solvik-Olsen have made a proposal on what they refer to as ‘necessary changes to the Tax Code and the Tax Decision of the Stortinge, so that the Act allows for a reduction of electricity tax and VAT on electricity in periods of exceptional power prices’ – that is, to allow for a reduction in electricity tax and VAT in periods of high prices. It's not the first time we've had a debate on this topic, and it's quite natural given that parts of the country are struggling with high and fluctuating electricity prices due to a lack of transmission capacity, past government neglect and a power market that cannot always be said to function properly. The intention is good, a person simply wants to lighten people's electricity bills by reducing the electricity charge for cold and expensive periods. The question is, first, whether it will work as intended, and second, whether it's the right way to relieve people's electricity costs. The answer given to the Committee by the Minister for Finance points in the direction of no. The answer, dated 11 February of this year, says that the benefit of such a proposal is likely to be due to producers as much as the customers to whom it is addressed. Therefore, when the part of progress in the form of a note is constantly pointing to the fact that electricity is not a luxury product, but a necessity product, there is reason to recall that the reason why prices fluctuate and make bills heavy for many power customers is that 20 years ago, the Storting decided that electricity should be treated as any other product, with the large price variations and the lack of incentives for new expansion this entails. This is a policy that usually and otherwise fits well into the political and economic fundamentals of the party of the proposers. I am of the opinion that it is pointless that it should cost more to boil water in dry layers than to heat the drive-up on Frogner. It's a political goal I share with many, regardless of party. But that is why I also believe it is important to focus both on new energy production and not least on good energy efficiency improvement schemes, while at the same time reducing the burden on those who are struggling most with the electricity billing. The government has stepped up its commitment to renewable energy production through the State Investment Plan and the Green Certificates introduced next year. The government has increased the effort to save energy through Enova with large sums, and in addition, the government has greatly accelerated the introduction of automatic power measurements throughout the country, but especially in Central Norway, for many years. It provides a good basis for smarter power-saving systems, which can significantly reduce people's electricity costs, without loss of comfort and without further work. When I spoke earlier on some occasions about energy saving and power saving from this pulpit, some right-wing representatives have almost made fun of the fact that energy saving is an important part of e.g. to resolve the power crisis in Central Norway. But for me, it's a matter of course that we're going to manage a high-level resource like power in a sensible and rational way. It's good for the environment, it's good for our power grid and therefore for people's wallet. The party of progress has, as I see it, a somewhat different approach. They want to leave the market free of charge. But when this makes big price differences and difficult bills for people, which is just to expect when the goal is to make as much money as you can on power, the suggestions that will give you the impression of great tax relief for most people. In reality, this proposal will primarily benefit highly paid people, because it is those who use the most electricity in the first place. It is far more accurate to make extra payments to households receiving housing support. They are many, and they all get an extra payment of NOK 2,500 this winter, in addition to NOK 100 for each additional member of the household. It's a rigorous tool that works, and it's unbureaucratic, unlike the proposal, which I think both seems bureaucratic, difficult to administer and probably won't have any particular effect on the electricity bills of most people. It is the opinion of a majority in the Committee. I want to add that precisely because electricity is a necessity product and not a luxury product, it is a strong wish on my part to reduce the use of electricity for heating. It should not be done, as the Progress Party claims in the note, by wishing for high electricity prices, but on the contrary by ensuring that households become less dependent on electricity – through energy saving measures and smarter power management, for which it is our task to facilitate. It is possible to get much lower current bills, even if the current prices are slightly higher. It's time we started to separate the two things in the debate. I think most people are much more concerned with their power bill than they are with how the free market prices the power at any time. Therefore, the government does not reverse its efforts, but provides direct support to the electricity bills over the housing support, and therefore the government is betting on energy saving. The Committee advises the Stortingen not to approve the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1115	In this case, the proposers consider that the government should make proposals for changes to the electricity tax and the electricity value added tax in periods of exceptionally high electricity prices. No one disagrees that the electricity prices in winter have been very high, and that this has probably caused significant problems for some of our residents and households. In particular, this has been a challenging situation for people with low incomes, for some pensioners and for some families with children. And for these people, it's not possible to save electricity enough to balance up for the big price rise. They've basically saved what they can. We cannot have such a situation here to land that someone should freeze, or not afford to have light in the living room. The price increase is undoubtedly best felt by those who are already using little power, and who have to save on consumption in every context in order to get the income to go to, as was the case with the rapporteur. For people with high incomes, the price rise in electricity is hardly noticeable, and if such households want to save a few dollars, they have much more consumption to reduce than those who already have a low consumption. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important that those with low income should be protected in such a situation. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the government to respond quickly with the help of the households that receive housing support, and that these received an extra payment as a help to cover the increased electricity price – and that this is also followed up again. This is a targeted and accurate help for those who need it the most. I feel sure that a reduction in fees is not as accurate, and at the same time such a reduction will cost much more. To put it another way: I don't think we who have our work in this room, and others with corresponding and higher income, are the ones who need the most help to get paid the power bill. If we are to follow the ideas and suggestions of the proposers, it will be those groups that get the most relief in the electricity bill, because it is probably those who have the greatest consumption. I agree with what the Minister of Finance said in his letter to the Committee that he felt that ‘the authorities should be cautious in imposing thresholds for the payment of the levy and not the levy’. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are concerned about releasing such situations in the future. This is why it is very positive that the government is stepping up its efforts towards renewable energy and energy efficiency, and that there is a strengthening of the power grid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1138	At the NRK today we could hear that one realizes the values of Norwegian hydropower. Values have increased by 70 pst. Since 2005, and many saw this as a joyous thing. Yes, it's a pleasure for those who own the hydropower, but it's a little less enjoyable for those who buy electricity. Realisation of values means that one has to have a higher power price, because we haven't cut costs, and we don't have much new production. So when one realizes the values of 70 pst, it's the current price and the current customers it goes beyond. From this point of view, the case rapporteur Snorre Serigstad Valen received what he wanted, as he said in a debate that SV would have higher power prices. That is not the content of the Progress Party. And unfortunately, the rapporteur has not understood the policy of the Progress Party when he redispatches it as simply as he does. The Progress Party believes that a primary need to do a lot to build up more power, and we need to do a lot to stimulate energy saving. Both of them, I think, agree on a total increase, even though we disagree a little about the instruments. But it takes a lot of time to implement this – time that the government has wasted on internal squabbling and ever-changing state councils. But that doesn't mean it's too late to get started. We have been given a new impetus in this area of policy because we have got a new Minister of Energy who challenges the government on many of the positions that the previous Minister of Energy had and that the rapporteur has. It is good that this debate is coming. But until the results can be shown in the market, we can do something that eliminates the worst impacts on people's electricity bills. Last year, the state made $38 billion. kr on the power consumption of the north. The level will be significantly higher in 2011. The price increases are largely due to the state through VAT, taxes and dividends. I would like to remind the case rapporteur Snorre Serigstad Valen of what Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in this Chamber on 3 March 2010: ‘So I believe that as politicians, we have to take responsibility for development – whether we are in this government or we are in the previous – and not owe it to a slightly diffuse market. It is a well-regulated system where politicians sit and are responsible for the most.’ So yes, we have free movement of electricity, but the power market is regulated by the politicians. The responsibility lies in this room. The representative Serigstad Valen does not get away from it, even though he is trying to blame the Progress Party. The responsibility that Stoltenberg pointed out is that the Progress Party we have to take. We have to make changes to the level of charges. A tax relief must be a good way to show that we don't want to use the power market to tax most people. That is a good position unless one believes the opposite, namely that force is something that should be taxed more. I notice that the proposal is rejected by claiming that a tax relief will not benefit most people, because a tax relief will lead to an identical increase in the power price. It is quite strange to say, because with such logic you can similarly increase the level of fees, with the sole result that the market price of electricity drops. There is no such automation in the market. I do not deny that the price affects the demand for a product, but there is little reason to believe that the response in the market is at the level claimed by the case rapporteur and the government. On the other hand, I claim that most of the fee reduction will benefit the customers. There's several reasons for that. First of all, electricity is not a luxury product. It's a necessity product. The level of consumption is controlled more by outdoor temperature than by price. Indeed, the need for increased housing support schemes confirms this fact. People use electricity even if they don't have the money to pay for that power. Secondly, the electricity price elasticity is assumed to be lower than – 0,04. There is an economic way to explain that there is very little agreement between price increases and consumption reductions – and vice versa. Thirdly, the Norwegian electricity tax regime only covers a small proportion of the Nordic market. Ergo: The changes we make in the Norwegian tax regime have little impact on the whole of the market, and then we don't have the whole price setting either. Fourthly, people do not have hourly metering on electricity per day. They don't know exactly the price at a given time, but they have a general sense of whether the flow is cheap or expensive. And that only affects the feeling; it doesn't change if you change the fee level. Let me also remind you that it is not only the richest who have to benefit from a lower electricity charge. According to the SSB report ‘Economic analysis 5/2003’, the size of the household controlling electricity consumption is not the income of the household. The government would like to boast of what they've done. Something has happened in the energy policy – to a large extent – but it has done far too little. Today's electricity price situation shows that. When the government parties refer to their last play on two-way communication as a big light in the electricity price situation, I remind you that that means about. 50 kroner in saved expenses per year. So it takes 40 years to get the investment refunded before this goes to zero. I take up the proposal which the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1173	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1176	Electricity is a necessity product, and electricity prices thus become a theme for most people, especially when prices are high. For the Right, it is important that, during periods of high electricity prices, we conduct a policy that takes care of the groups and individuals of the population who are particularly affected by such a situation. Therefore, in the 2011 budget, the Right already proposed that the government should follow up electricity prices carefully, and we asked the government, if again there was an abnormal situation on the electricity market, to consider using the housing aid scheme to remedy the situation of the most disadvantaged. This situation emerged as known, and the Right agreed with the budgetary arrangements made to remedy this group of pressures at the high current bills. Increased housing aid is a targeted measure to address an exceptionally high level of electricity prices. Cuts in electricity charges, which are addressed by this representative proposal, are not suitable to remedy the price level and balance of the market. The right considers that in a market, the pricing mechanism is a crucial instrument for providing signals of supply and demand for a product or service, and that free pricing is essential for balancing supply and demand. In the Minister of Finance's letter to the Committee dated 11 February, it was written in particular:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘High electricity prices are the market’s signal of scarcity and motivates households and businesses to save electricity. If one had managed to over-check these signals in case of charge changes, scarceness could quickly switch over to mains power out.’ Right-wing share this view, and we support the majority of the Committee that this proposal for a representative is not acceptable. However, I would like to take the opportunity to point out that we on the Right are not impressed by the government's work on the supply side of the electricity market. Today, we are facing a situation where we can risk that parts of South Norway will have to go to remedies next month because of a lack of production capacity. The magazine filling was before the weekend on approx. 20 pst. We have a large and environmentally friendly hydropower production in Norway, but unfortunately it makes us vulnerable to periods of low rainfall – and of course extra vulnerable to many periods of low rainfall in combination with long periods of low temperatures. This means that we must take political responsibility for increased production, but also for more varied energy production. Fortunately, Norway is part of a larger market. The Swedes have had a good regularity and high nuclear power production this winter, so that, among other things, the level of prices is Middle Norway has been lower than what we otherwise had reason to fear. Now, by the way, we can read in the media that the new oil and energy minister, Ola Borten Moe, has promised cheaper electricity to Middle Norway, and we are looking from the Right to the political grips he intends to make to fulfill this promise. The other signals from the same edge are not so positive, either in terms of support for small power in terms of who will participate and transitional arrangements for the green licence market, or in terms of focus on our offshore wind potential. Investment in energy production requires a high level of predictability and long-termity in the framework conditions. This type of investment is often very capital-intensive. The government has already used its loss rate, yes, I would essentially say that they have over-exploited their loss rate in terms of creating predictability – first at the introduction of the biodiesel tax, which put the bottom of both existing and planned industrial activities, and then by failing the small power and district Norway by taking away from the promises of a transitional regime for this group in a green certificate market, or the electricity certificate market with Sweden. It is not useful to pursue industrial policy or energy policy in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1200	The Christian People's Party does not believe in the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted, and which we are discussing today, about flexible electricity charges in periods of exceptionally high electricity costs. The Christian People's Party believes in targeted measures such as housing support, as support for households through Enova to improve power systems and after-insulation. We want to get results out of the effort we put on the table. But the representative Solvik-Olsen has a good point in saying that the state has made a lot of money in the last few months, even today, when we're standing here, that we've put behind us a cold winter where we've had high electricity prices. This believes that the Christian People's Party must benefit consumers through a stronger commitment to renewable energy and a stronger commitment to energy efficiency improvement. That's why it's a matter of course for the Christian People's Party to send a clear signal to the government that Enova should survive, with weight and muscles in terms of money, even after green certificates are in place after 2012. We're in an alarming force situation. When Statnett reports that we have now moved from a tight situation in South Norway to a difficult situation, that we have gone from a normal situation to a tight one in North Norway, and that in Middle Norway it is still assessed that we have a tight force situation, this is alarming and should be alarm messages into this room. The Christian People's Party has called for us now, in the situation we are facing, to have an obligating plan on security of supply for electricity during this year to prevent us from coming into a more critical power crisis. Because it can't be that we put all our trust in the melting of snow, that it comes at the right time and in the right place when we're going to have power both to the potatoes in central Norway and to warm up some terraces on Frogner. The Christian People's Party hopes that the government will now address this and come back with concrete measures through a plan. There has been a small discussion about government action so far. There has been evidence of the initiative of the current and newly appointed oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe on automatic reading and that it will be in place in Central Norway by the end of 2013. If I can be so bold as to read from the 2003 Storing Message, no. 18 which was delivered by Einar Steensnæs, who was then Minister for Oil and Energy: point 9 of the measures states that policy will focus on: ‘to facilitate increased consumer flexibility through new forms of contract, two-way communication and more frequent reading and billing in a demanding force situation’. This was a proposal in this Chamber ten years ago. This may be the time when current oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe will deliver. It's taken ten years. It is ten years since consumers have suffered, and as nature has suffered from an excessive extraction of energy around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1222	Clearly, proposers are right that high electricity prices can be a major challenge for people with poor economies. In particular, the fluctuations resulting in a large bill that has not been fully foreseen can be a significant challenge for many low-paid people in Norway, for pensioners and others with major challenges. Bendiks Arnesen was also involved in this. But then the obvious answer to the challenge is what luckily both the Christian People's Party and the Right agree with the government in giving targeted support to those who come into an economically difficult situation. That's what you do by spending money on housing. In general, making electricity cheaper for everyone, including all of the waste we are also involved in in Norway — there are several examples here — where we, for example: heats up the garage drive to the cabin or whatever it may be in such a way that very few of those who have poor advice can afford, becomes meaningless. A major societal problem requires a targeted response, and the targeted response – fortunately there is a broad majority in the UK for it – is to support those who need money in the form of housing support. In general, spending money on everything and everyone can only be paid if you do not have both a debit and a credit page in your political accounts. Then there is no doubt that a main reason for high power prices is that it has been a cold winter, and that there is a need to solve the problem of how to increase energy supply in a situation where winter is cold. Now we're going into a global situation where it's quite unlikely that we're getting a lot of new nuclear power in Europe, and where coal power and other power based on fossil fuels are probably even more dangerous from a climate perspective. There were many more who died in the natural disaster in Japan and in climate-related disasters on the globe than the number even in the worst case would die in an atomic accident. But these major global energy sources are all in difficulty. In this case, the national Norwegian response must be energy efficiency improvement and renewable energy investment. The EU now has a large programme in its 2020 energy and resource efficiency thinking that makes it natural for Norway to see with great interest what the EU is doing there, for resource efficiency, getting more out of less, is the main long-term policy response. It concerns all resources, but it is primarily about getting more out of energy resources and using them more efficiently. In addition, we will expand all renewable energy sources, water, wind, solar and bio, in Norway and also contribute to their development internationally. Finally, when I'm here in Sigbjørn Johnsen's place: I'm not going far into Poland, but I feel that the Progress Party has a general problem with its relationship to the market. Right Siri Meling was also in on it. In other words, the very purpose of having a market mechanism within the energy sector – one can, of course, be against it – is that there should be a price signal in the market, so that at times when there is a need to save more, a price signal and less use. In other times you go the other way. A situation in which one actively and continuously agitates to have more markets in almost all areas of society, but whenever the market creates a problem, one should try to make economic gains on that problem – it is not the way long-term political credibility is built up, and it will be a fundamental problem on the day of a government position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1237	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1240	Let me first remind the Council of State that there is no one in this room who is against neither an additional nor renewable energy. The point that the Progress Party is making is that this government has been talking about the two themes for five and a half years. Nevertheless, we have today's situation. It's no use trying to solve today's situation now talking about many things that take years to realize. When it comes to housing support, we're all for it. But when the opposition proposed it in the state budget last autumn, the representatives of today’s government voted against what they are in favour of today. So they shouldn't owe it to the Progress Party and the opposition because it wasn't done last year. What we're talking about here is also not to make electricity cheaper, but to make the price increase in the market less hard on power consumption. We will not try to change the price signal in the market. However, these are the additional charges imposed by the authorities, which are proposed here, precisely in order to reduce the burden. The Prime Minister said in this Chamber last year that this is largely political, regardless of whether the government is trying to put it only on the market. [[President clubs]] Does the Council see the point that we can give a relief to ordinary people... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1248	There's only one money box in Norway. If we're going to use public funds to subsidize the electricity price in such a situation for everything, even for those of us who spend too much, it's money that could otherwise have been spent on railway development, on the care of the elderly, on health and on a series of other things. It could also have been applied to targeted tax credits for low pay or to targeted additions in housing aid for those who have less. So these are questions about whether you want targeted action to achieve political goals or whether you want to spread money a little loosely to everything and everyone. Then you don't meet the poor, and you spend money that would otherwise have been used for nursing homes, kindergartens, better schools and many other good purposes, which we sometimes agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1253	Firstly, it is a logical flaw in claiming that a tax relief will not hit the poor. They also pay a fee for the current they use. Where there is also a clear need, many of the municipalities that have been out in the media say that they have to cut their offer, because the electricity prices are much higher than they have budgeted for. The point in this case is not that we are going to use tax money with which we budgeted last fall, now to give lower electricity prices. The point is that increased electricity prices generate a tax income that we hadn't budgeted for last autumn. So this government has not planned that the power prices should be so high. This government said last fall that electricity prices should remain unchanged this year. They're obviously not. This means an increase in dividends, an increase in tax revenue and an increase in tax revenue for electricity companies. It's about using the extra income that we've never allocated to other things, and giving back to the population through reduced electricity tax breaks. Sees the Council of State that this is not actually about prioritising funds that have already been budgeted, but it is about how to manage the income you have received, not the flow as a tax income.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1258	Power, like any other good in Norway, is a misdistributed good. The more you earn, the more power you use. Solvik-Olsen and I are probably using more power than the poorest in Norway, and people who are even richer than us are using even more power. So if you generally help to keep the electricity price down by means of government subsidies, i.e. using money that could have been used for elderly care, health care, school and everything else, you divide the money thinly across everything. The consensus of a broad majority in this Chamber – the government parties, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party – is that it is far better to spend the money on those people who really need it. The housing aid is an instrument to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1263	Governments were committed to energy efficiency improvement as an important measure. We are fully in agreement with the Council of State on the right. We know, of course, that the EU has 20-20-20 targets by 2020, where it has to streamline 20 pst. of its consumption. In fact, Norway is the only country that has not set its own energy efficiency improvement target. My question to the Council of State is whether he can be satisfied with such a situation, that we are the only ones who have not set a target for energy efficiency improvement. Can he say anything about when we can have the hope of achieving a goal in Norway in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1268	Now, in this debate, I am in favour of Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen. What is required here is that I should also be in position for Minister of Oil and Energy Borten Moe. I can't predict what's going to result from that particular process. But let me say that I was in Brussels last week having conversations with a series of EU leaders, including Environment Commissioner Potocnik. One of the programs he's launched, and I'm sure Right and we'll agree on, is very interesting. It's one of the so-called seven pillars of EU 2020. It is a programme to achieve overall resource efficiency, i.e. to get more out of less, to use all natural resources, to use human resources and, above all, to use energy in a more efficient way. I think that's a very central part of the answer to the challenges we're facing, in this and many other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1275	I'm sorry if I overestimate the Council of State's ability to respond in this matter. But I'm trying again in relation to offshore wind. The new Minister of Energy became, among other things, by the Director of Greater Stavanger accused him of canceling the party to which the government itself has invited in respect of a future bet on offshore wind, which we know Norway has a great potential to develop and which will also make us less dependent on hydropower. However, it is a little further ahead of time in relation to the cost element, but strengthening technology development and our supplier environments, we believe that the Right side is important. My question to the State Council, Solheim, is whether he shares the views of the State Council, Borten Moe, in the field of marine energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1280	Now I've just seen the media versions of what Ola Borten Moe is supposed to have said about this question. Let me then say what I mean, and I'm pretty sure he also agrees with that. It is that offshore wind is not a day-to-day alternative that can bring so much energy right now to Norway that it can solve our immediate energy challenges, but offshore wind is a fantastic possibility for the future. There's a huge potential there. This is one of the energy sources for the future with which there are least difficulties. Small scale sun and offshore wind are among the least complicated, i.e. those that there are few anticonceptions against, so I definitely think that's something we have to bet on a lot more. But of course it's like the first car – the first car was terribly expensive, but when you get into mass production and solve technological challenges, the price goes down, and it becomes an alternative. We've seen this in almost every technological area, and I'm sure we're going to go further on offshore wind in that way as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1285	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1303	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1314	I will first be allowed to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the examination of this proposal for a representative. It became clear, however, that the position and opposition did not have a parallel view of the proposal we are discussing today. I would like to commend the proposers for raising the question of a change in the Planning and Building Act. Proposalers want to strengthen local democracy and ownership of the environment and land management. The Planning and Building Act is a very important law for the inhabitants of the municipalities and for local democracy. Most people will be directly affected by this law from time to time. The opposition is united in the view that decisions need to be taken as closely as possible in order to maximise the legitimacy of the local population. With the proposal to amend the Planning and Building Act, the proposers wish to reduce the possibilities for government and regional authorities to review municipally adopted plans. In summary, the main points of the proposal for a representative are that these authorities should have less influence over municipal land plans. The right to raise objections shall be restricted. Superior authorities shall be responsible for carrying out the legality check of the plan decision. Proposals will require most of the national planning provisions to be removed or considerably reduced. If the proposal is adopted, it will be easier for municipalities to grant exemptions in matters dealt with under the Planning and Building Act. Proposalers want the concept of INON – non-interventional natural areas in Norway – not to be used in spatial planning. The meaning of the INON concept is clear to prevent active action in this area. Including one kilometre from all types of population or measures this represents over 70 pst. of all land area in Norway. The INON concept is not legal or determined in Stortinget. It can be compared with the term ‘buffer zones’ which, a few decades ago, was introduced in the same way. For the opposition, proposals for amendments to the Planning and Building Act are so important that it was decided to hold an open hearing before the work on the file was started. Ten different organisations took part in the hearing. In summary, organisations related to agriculture and forestry were very concerned that the INON concept was not to be used in land planning. The same pointed to the county council leader from Nord-Trøndelag County. The county rapporteur from West Agder considered the process of municipal spatial planning satisfactory with regard to the county municipality. He pointed out, however, the unfortunate fact that the county council had a double role in planning. The decision to appeal municipal decisions should not be taken by bureaucrats. It should be political bodies that were also responsible for the comments, the objections, from the county council in line with the county council. The Nature Conservation Association and the Architectural Companies agreed that today's Planning and Building Law was good and that there was no need for changes. The representative proposal was sent to the Ministry of the Environment, and in response, State Council Erik Solheim writes that the issues that are the background to the proposal for a representative do not bring new elements after the Stortinget has dealt with the law in the spring of 2008: ‘The law is based on the principle that planning should be decentralised and as close as possible to those affected by the decisions. The municipality is the primary authority of the land management and has the primary responsibility to determine the use of the land within its territory. It is only in cases where the plans of the municipalities do not take sufficient account of the fact that land use also has an impact on the interests or considerations of the municipality that can be overestimated. The condition for the use of objections to municipal plans is that the draft plan involves significant conflicts with national or regional interests, even after dialogue with regional authorities.’.» If reality exercised by the state council was as described in Solheim's letter of reply, the Progress Party would also be able to accept this. The condition for objecting is that the draft plans contain significant conflicts with national or regional interests. Significant conflicts must be understood to be major conflicts. Today, the situation is that most measures — especially for construction activities in the hundreds of metres of sea and water belt — are finally rejected, irrespective of the size and scope of the action. The superior authorities first say negatively about the case and recommend that the municipality reject the application. The municipality is so threatened that if it is given a locally positive decision, objections will be raised. State Council Solheim reiterates both in writing and from the Spokesman of Storting that the use of objections should only be used when the municipal plans have significant conflicts with national or regional interests. However, this has little to do with reality. When the Stortinget debated the proposal from the Progress Party to strengthen local land management in the coastal zone on 7 June 2010, the Council of State pointed out Solheim in its comments that the main purpose of the Coastal Plan Act was to ensure public access to the coastal zone. Solheim further stated that de minimis details should not be the basis for any refusal or objection, and public authorities should avoid objections in such cases. In its final speech in the debate on 7 June 2010, the Council of State said, among other things: the following: ‘But let me just say the general, as I have said repeatedly here – I am absolutely sure that the county officials listen very carefully – and it is that my attitude is that one should be very restrictive where it is about privatising new areas that are widely available – preventing them from being widely used by the most – while one can be far more liberal on small changes where there is already population, where there are facade changes, small additions, small changes, where one does not privatise areas that have been accessible to the public. There can be much more liberal." I am therefore challenging the Solheim Council from this pulpit to clarify what he means to be ‘more liberal’ in terms of decisions under the Law on Planning and Building. Similarly, I ask Solheim to give a few examples of significant conflicts with national interests. The county councillors do not change their case-law after reports from Solheim State Council in a big debate. The population will have clear guidelines on what liberal treatment and significant conflicts mean, and how this deviates from previous guidelines of the Council of State. On questions from the undersigned, whether the Council of State would elaborate on its statements from the Stortinget to the statesmen, the answer was unclear and inconclusive. State Council Solheim did not answer the question of what he meant in debates in Stortinget, among others. to obtain a much more liberal assessment of some planning issues. State Council Solheim is very clear when he is standing on the Stockholm Chair in debates in distinguishing between the significant and insignificant in matters to be assessed under the Planning and Building Act. Unfortunately, I have to say that this is not the case when the Ministry of the Environment, led by the State Council of Solheim, is going to instruct its statesmen about this. Land management is one of the main pillars of local politicians. It is also a key element in the development of the municipality’s economic activity. Many municipalities are struggling with a decline in housing, and then the organisation of nutrient and cabin areas may be necessary elements to reverse this trend. With less and less influence on land issues, the local government has a direct effect on the reduction of interest in local policy. There is a clear indication of the break-up of municipal elections. The size should be a driving force to get up the interest in local democracy. The Progress Party believes that this could be achieved if more decisions in land matters were brought back to the municipalities, in line with the proposal for a representative that we are now dealing with. If the Progress Party comes into position after the 2013 elections, the Planning and Building Act will be subject to a thorough revision. The decision-making authority will be returned to the municipalities where it belongs. The Party considers that those who have both grown up and lived in the municipality are best placed to assess the disposal of their own land. It was not surprising that in 2008 the Labour Party and SV amended the Planning and Building Act with the intention of strengthening central power and at the same time weakening local democracy. The disappointing thing is that the Center Party, which still claims to be in favour of decentralised power and local democracy, supports a district hostile planning and building law. Finally, I am addressing the joint proposals from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1365	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1368	I want to start by referring to the extensive process that we had linked to the new planning and building law in the previous period. All these elements were addressed by the proposers and were discussed in detail at the time. So it is not a new problem that protection can be controversial and meet local resistance. That is why I am pleased that there has become an increasing focus on business development in combination with protection, that we have received value creation programmes, the construction of national parks centres, the use of nutrition funds in some cases, and not least that a new model has been introduced for local management of protected areas. It's a long step in the right direction, and it's a step that the Bondevik government never took. The proposers refer to the right of all persons. It does not hold to say that the rights of all persons are important in a proposal for a representative; the right of all persons needs protection. We have had a decades-long contrast of interest between private development interests and people's right to free movement, which is only becoming more important and important as the pressure for expansion increases, especially in key areas. That is why it is wise to have a differentiated policy, as we are going to have, for example. on the beach zone, where government leaders are less binding in municipalities with little pressure. Local democracy is a proponent word, but it is used a little when it suits you. No one believes that the concern for local democracy is superior to all other concerns at all times. The Progress Party, for example, will take most of the welfare production out of the municipalities and introduce state-funded single-price schemes in most areas. Then there is not much more than the possibility of expanding into the beach zone that is left in the local democracy of the Progress Party. I believe that the proposers understand that, for example. the removal of an instrument as a state level guideline will lead to more – not less – construction in the coastal zone. The question is whether that is desirable. Everyone agrees that there should be State guidelines for land policy at some level. I noticed with interest that the peasant team in the hearing that we had in this case was for more local autonomy in land management, but wanted a stronger state protection of soil protection, to take one example. I agree that the state, or the administration on behalf of the state, should not intervene unnecessarily. State intervention that is perceived as premature, contrary to common sense, seems provocative and eliminates the popularization of land policy. Therefore, an instrument as a government planning guideline should only be used for the purpose of pursuing long-term national interests. Ensuring future generations of human rights and freedom of movement in the field is of national interest. Every single small intervention or construction process cannot be completely isolated from the expansion pressure and expansion rate of society as a whole. I believe that it is serious when the National Audit Office points out that the Storting's own objectives of sustainable land-use planning are not followed up well enough. It's not like we've tied up the whole country, which you can get the impression of when this topic is being debated. The business interests are strong and often win when they come into direct conflict with natural interests. Of course it has to be, because we want business development, but it also means that an active policy has to be pursued to take care of important parts of our natural heritage. The Planning and Building Act is based on the principle that the primary responsibility for planning lies with the municipalities and county municipalities. The municipality is the primary authority in land management, and the Planning and Building Act is a hugely important tool for the municipality. The proposers express a strong concern for local democracy. I will not underestimate the existence of conflicts, but at the same time we have to take that with us. 2 000 municipal plans are adopted annually by the municipalities of Norway. In 2010, 29 plans were decided by the Ministry of the Environment. In half of those cases, the municipality’s decision was fully or partially maintained by the Ministry of the Environment. We have to recognise that the conflicts exist, but at the same time we cannot make this a bigger problem than it actually is. Against this background, I address the joint proposal from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre that the proposal for a representative be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1387	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1390	Right has a major issue about strengthening local democracy and strengthening private ownership. Right sees that after six years of red-green rule in Norway, there has been a strong need to maintain these basic values. It has been a strange experience to record that all the red-green parts are so totally rejecting the suggestions that Right have come with them. That such an extensive case only consumes half a page with comments from the opposition, is directly embarrassing. In particular, it is worth noting that the Center Party has been such a strong opponent of local democracy and private ownership. There are many important issues in this matter. Right-wing want to identify municipalities that have a high commitment of land to protection or other common objectives. Therefore, the Right wants to develop a categorisation of municipalities according to the level of binding and protection. We would like to establish national guidelines for all agencies with protection and land use powers, so that it will be taken into account that municipalities with a high level of bridging needs will also have room for economic development. Rightly, national strategies for industrial development in combination with protection and consider whether a specific local compensation should be introduced to municipalities that take a very large part of the burden of protection from the large community. Right will also promote volunteering and make-exchange solutions, bringing it into focus in the context of protection. Force must be the last resort. There are many groundbreaking suggestions in this matter. Right wants it to bring together the responsibility for planning and building laws with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. This will mean that there is one department that has a holistic approach, so that many different societal views are assessed against each other in a good way. Another important part of this is to ensure that local self-government is strengthened in land matters, by removing the indications of national expectations for regional and municipal planning, government planning guidelines and government planning. Right wants to remove the state's ability to propagate contradictions only based on discretion. Right also wants the ‘intervention-free natural area’ (INON) to be no longer weighted in the management of land-related matters in government agencies. We see it as important in the conversion of state overpowering that the county council's tasks are limited only to law enforcement in order to take care of its individual rights when it comes to the municipal administration, and that the municipalities adhere to the laws adopted. Right-wing also wants the Stortinget to ask the government to bring a case before the Stortinget for the transfer of the administrative authority over areas protected by law in the event of natural disasters to the municipalities concerned, and to do so during 2011. Right has raised this issue of strengthening local democracy and ownership in environmental and land management because it is a very important matter, and it is very disappointing to see that all government parties vote down all of their right proposals. It is worth noting that in its Programme of Action 2009–2013, the Centre Party will legislate on local self-government. The central party will base the division of tasks between the management bodies on the lowest possible effective level of tasks and the determination of all decisions requiring political judgement by the elected representatives. Why, then, does the Central Party vote against the Right's proposals? The Central Party would also like to strengthen any protection processes by legislating for their implementation in cooperation with local communities and landowners, and they would like to shift responsibility for territorial protection from the State to the regionally elected public level. Why do they vote against the Right's suggestions? It's a mystery to me. The central party claims to be defenders of local democracy and property law. Those are fine words, but unfortunately it turns out that in this area too, there is empty talk and double communication that is the center party's leading weapon. Unfortunately, it is only to note that the Central Party has lost all trust when it comes to defending local democracy and private ownership, and that the company with SV and the Labour Party has seen its clear traces.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1428	In this debate, my thoughts go to one of the promotion campaigns to the Progress Party during the last campaign of the big shots. There was an advertisement on the quick boat between Trondheim, Fosen and Örerekka, where the slogan was: Keep the Oslo power away from our beach son – with pictures of the two top candidates for the Progress Party, who smiled at the camera with a beautiful beach zone that actually had the mark of being a generality, in the background. It is an effective and appealing rhetoric, but at best it is grossly misleading, because the question is what is the stranded son «our». In the eyes of some people, the beach son is only ‘sin’ or ‘our’ if one is part of the private ownership, and the message of this advertising campaign was that a faceless Oslo power determined over the management of the ‘our’ beach zone. But many of the most beautiful parts of our coast are completely privatized and reconstructed. Then I think to the contrary of the Advancement Party, that the beach zone is primarily "our" when the community has access to it, when access to good experiences on the coast does not depend on what you own. Then the beach zone is "we". It is not new that the Progress Party draws up a picture of a bad central government that commits an assault on the small man – it is common on that part of the right side – when what is really being discussed is the right of objection that exists to preserve a broad sense of purpose. More surprising is that the right saw until the degrees have thrown themselves on this trend. The right between 2001 and 2005 was a lot of protection, regulation and safeguarding the interests of the community, to a great surprise and joy for many. This includes, inter alia: that the government now provides for a beach zone management that is more flexible than the Right-led by the Ministry of Environment. That means that the Right says the true opposite of the INON now of what they did when they put in government. They then said that INON should be an important tool to ensure non-interventional areas that are important for, among other things. outdoor life and biodiversity. It's not very surprising, unfortunately, but it contributes to an unsound debate on the planning and building law and land management, because it's not that national leaders and expectations per. definition is undemocratic. Firstly, the municipality is the primary decision-making body. Secondly, national expectations are the basis for the right of objection, expectations and leadership in this Chamber. It is the country's political majority who, anchored in the Stortinget, believe that broad public interests must weigh heavily on planning and land issues. It is too easy to create a political enemy image of statesmen without recognizing that it is politics. That makes me suspect the proposers to operate with some substantiation. I do not think this proposal is being promoted for the sake of the purpose of law: promoting sustainable development for the benefit of individuals, society and future generations. No, I think this is a rematch either. In half of the cases are given, as the representative Martinsen was in, the municipalities in whole or in part. It is rarely Right and the Advance Party protests against it. While calling for a clearer basis for the possibility of raising objections, the proposers propose at the same time to remove the legal provisions that clarify the state leadership for planning. SV is a supporter of a good balance between different considerations in planning matters. That's what democracy and different interests are all about, both nutrition and protection interests. To present this as a fundamental attack on local democracy is at best unprofessional, and I do not know whether the proposers believe in it themselves. On the contrary, Lødemel's posts are embarrassing and not the position's policies. Experience has shown that the Right lives well with municipalities that become poorer every year, which get their revenues increased to the ports on the ROBEK list, and which are merged with coercion for as long as 20ths of plans this year do not end up in the Ministry of the Environment. It's the Right definition of an important local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1443	This matter is largely concerned with many of the same issues that arose when the plan part of the Planning and Building Act was adopted in 2008. At that time, the Central Party stressed that the law is based on the principle that the primary responsibility for planning lies with the municipality and the county municipality. The same is true today. This is an important principle for us. Spatial planning and land management are one of the main tasks of the municipality. Municipalities are doing a good and important job of correcting land use in order to maximise the use of land to meet the challenges of the future. This applies both to business, to residential and recreational areas. It requires holistic thinking and important local knowledge. Therefore, the municipality has the primary authority in land management, and it has the primary responsibility to determine the use of the land within its own area. But it is also true that land use in some contexts is important in addition to the municipality's interests. It is then important that there are good arrangements to be able to attend to these interests as well. It may then be necessary for general authorities to be able to intervene. For the Central Party, it is a health sign that there are very few times that the Ministry has to intervene in municipal decisions through today's opposition regime. The figures show that in 2010 there was less than 1 pst. This suggests that this does not, in practice, have the dimensions that proposers here claim. As far as the beach zone is concerned, the Center Party is very concerned that we have a differentiated beach zone management. There are great differences in the pressure on the beach zone in our long-distance country. In some places there is little access to the beach area for the public, while in many other places the beach area is vital to have enough space to use to ensure housing and value creation. At the time of the adoption of the law, a broad majority said that guidelines for a geographically differentiated coastal zone policy should be drawn up. Proposals for guidelines have been consulted, and I have good hope of completing this work, and that the intention of geographical differentiation is well respected there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1454	The Christian People's Party shares the intentions and ideological thinking of the proposers in this matter. It is important to maintain it by strengthening local democracy and ownership, including in environmental and land management. The Planning and Building Act is based on the principle that the primary responsibility for planning lies with the municipalities and county municipalities. Municipalities are the primary authority of land management and are primarily responsible for determining the use of land within their own territory. In cases where the plans of the municipalities do not take sufficient account of the interests or considerations beyond the municipalities, plan decisions may be reviewed. These are principles that the Christian People's Party is essentially behind today, and also the day of the adoption of the new Law on Planning and Building in 2008. Christian People's Party is a Christian Democratic Party. In Christian democratic thinking, it is essential that man is responsible for managing creation properly. It concerns natural resources, financial resources and human resources. Nature gives us great opportunities and a great responsibility. The resources must be used in the pact with the resilience of nature. Christian democracy also aims to make decisions as close as possible to those involved. At the same time, the desire for proximity must be balanced with the inclusion of as many as possible of those affected in the decision-making process. The proximity price index is about power distribution and decision-making power. It is about limiting the use of public power. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposal of the Right on changes to the Planning and Building Act is a balance between the administrative responsibility and the principle of subsidiarity. The Christian People's Party agrees with the intention of any of the proposals, but believes the whole of the proposals that are being promoted goes too far at the expense of managing responsibility. Good governance requires a reasonable balance between overall national interests and local self-government. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to clarify the concept of non-interventional natural areas, INON. Conceptual farming must not prevent active forestry in areas not otherwise subject to other protective provisions. This presupposes that the maximum and mechanical extraction of timber is not defined as heavy technical intervention. However, the Christian People's Party does not wish to remove the ION concept entirely from the proceedings, as advocated in the proposal. The Christian People's Party will take care of biodiversity for future generations and believes it is best done through a combination of voluntary protection and sustainable use. The Christian People's Party believes that venereal work needs to be continued in order to ensure the protection of important natural habitats throughout the country. Voluntary protection agreements are a constructive track that the Christian People's Party believes should be further developed. The Christian People's Party believes that the coastal zone needs to be managed from a generation perspective and ensured for public use. The 100-metre rule must be strictly practised, but in parts of the country where the beach zone is not under pressure, the Christian People's Party believes it should be able to open up a more flexible practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1479	The right proposal here today is a hard attack on two important figures in Norwegian history: it's a frontal attack on Harald Haarfager, and it's a frontal attack on Børge Burnde. Let me justify this. It is a frontal attack on Harald Haarfager because for all practical purposes what he created, Norway as one kingdom and one country, will be lifted. Of course, we should have an extensive degree of local self-government. All parties agree on this. Our government has taken a number of steps to increase local autonomy in relation to how it was during, for example. The Bondevik Government. But we also need something that binds us together, and in the environmental field, it is essential that there is a degree of consistent practice in Norway if we are not to split in all directions. We have a well-functioning system, where, as was pointed out not least by the speakers of the Central Party here, there is a small proportion of the objections that come in, which are being dealt with at all. Of them again, there is only a small proportion that is then treated differently than the municipalities themselves want. So what we have is a well-functioning system, where the statesmen can object. In almost all cases, a local solution is found. Very often, the municipalities say that the local solution is getting better than the one you originally had, because more people look at one thing can help improve it. Then there are a small number of things that come into the Ministry of the Environment, and of them again many are determined as the municipality has wanted and not as the county has wanted. So the number of cases where the municipalities are being tried out is very small. But if we were to deviate from such a system and spend everything for all practical purposes for real, final decision in the municipalities, we would lose this element that we have had for hundreds of years in Norway: that we try to be one country and try to have common standards in many areas. Then, of course, there is a frontal attack on Børge Burnde and also on former Minister of Environmental Protection Hareide, who had a completely different view in these areas. Let me take soil protection as an example, because that's something that's been a lot up in the debate lately. There is a series of protests against the fact that soil protection is not adequately protected under the red-green government. In particular, there is an attempt here to dislodge the Centre Party as a soil protection party. But if soil protection isn't well maintained, it's because a series of local decisions are made where in every place you have to build a football field, a school – whatever it may be – it makes sense to take that particular patch right here. This builds up, and the sum of these becomes, at national level, a very threat to soil protection. So the government is trying to take certain measures to reduce this threat to soil protection by in some cases overseeing local decisions to take care of soil protection. In this way, a degree of national policy is ensured, and environmental considerations are ensured in such a significant area as soil protection. Let's have no illusion about this: if the Right's proposal were to be adopted here, there is a frontal attack on soil protection in Norway. It may be for or against, but let's just not forget that it is, among other things. Is. With regard to the beach zone, the government will present its views in the very near future. We have softened the restrictive policy of the Bondevik government in this area, where Norway was divided into two groups. We've said that it's not that we don't need greater nuances and more differentiations than that, and we've added up to it in our proposals. Skumsvoll was in the danger of bureaucratic squareness, and I agree with that. I don't think there's any way you can lift that danger at national level. There is a risk of bureaucratic squareity in municipal, county, central decision making and decisions by county councillors. That father is always there. The only way is to be constantly ‘on the alert’ against people who want to conduct detailed control in detail rather than overall control of the main issues. My signals in this way are clear. With regard to the so-called non-intervention areas, I have previously referred to what both Hareide and Børge Brende and others have said about this, including. the importance of non-interventional areas for outdoors and nature experiences, that it is also important as habitats for several species, inter alia. wildness, and that INON remains an important tool for ensuring non-interventional areas, which have an impact on, inter alia, the environment. outdoor life and biodiversity — and a number of similar opinions. I do not know what is now so different from what was said during the Bondevik administration, but then non-interventional areas were very important. Our government believes that this is still important. Why it's no longer important for the Right get the Right answer. Let me end by saying that it is the red-green government that has added up to the local administration of national parks and protected areas, which former bourgeois governments did not do. It's the most important single measure in this area to actually shift power out to the local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1510	The Planning and Building Act, adopted in 2008 and operational from 1 July 2009, has weakened local democracy. Local politicians have no real influence over their own land, and there are more, among other things. The Council of State, which states that only 29 plans were sent to the Ministry of the Environment. That's right, because most of the plans were significantly reduced long before they got there. It's the county council that stops them, along with the county environmental protection department. That's why few come to the department. The fact that the rise in municipal elections is still falling is a fact of life. People don't want to be on political lists anymore. Does not the Council of State realise that ever less and less influence over its own affairs in the municipality – in this case municipal areas – is involved in eroding local democracy? Can the Council of State mention some measures that are important to change this and become more interested in local policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1517	As far as measures for more participation in local elections are concerned, I think it is bringing up good policy issues in a pointed way, such as: The former leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, contributed for a long time. It contributes to political confrontation and political interest. His involvement in local politics in Oslo may, for example, include: be a contribution in this way. But let me then get to what is the very heart of the matter here. I don't understand the way that a municipality reaches, for example. put forward a plan, and then it discusses with the county council and agrees with him, it would be a deterioration or so to say it is to deprive someone of self-government. The municipality has up-and-coming politicians who agree with the county council on something that often makes matters better. It's no different than whether I agree with the neighbors or with the board of directors of the housing team or who it might be. As long as I agree with them, I do. A municipality that agrees with the county council obviously has the right to agree with the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1524	The reality is a completely different one. It is that the county council and the county's environmental protection department have booked and both ends. If the municipality wants a plan throughput, it's pure pressure, and it's the pressure we're very busy solving. That's where I think State Council Solheim could be a little helpful, because he's very clear that it's just in big cases there should be objections. But reality is a completely different one.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1529	But the reality is – which was well documented in several of the posts here – that in almost all cases you agree with the county council. A municipality that agrees with the county council must be responsible for what was agreed. A rapporteur, a local government that agrees with someone, stands for what they have agreed with others. Then we have a few very few cases coming into the Ministry of the Environment, and in those cases we often give the municipalities support. In all cases that I have been treated for — e.g. The current market law, where there have been many issues – we have consistently been committed to governance in general, what is important for the purposes of the case, and not to detailed regulation in small areas. I agree with Skumsvoll that there are many examples of what is tormenting people in a completely unnecessary way. But that scourge exists everywhere where public bureaucracy has intervened, and it is about reducing it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1536	It is true, as the Council of State says, that there are relatively few issues coming to the Ministry of the Environment. But a lot of people might give up along the way or change their plans because they feel like they're stuck in a corner. This was clearly done by the rapporteur in Egersund some time ago. He asked for a meeting with the county councillor in Rogaland to deliver usernames and passwords to the municipal planning system in the municipality of Egersund. He said that the county might as well take over the proceedings, because that was what the county actually did over and over again. This is very contrary to the statements of the Council of State that a very small proportion goes to the Department. Can the Council of States send some encouraging words to the rapporteur in Egersund and others in similar situations, which make them feel that they have the right to dispose of their land?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1543	I do not know this case in Egersund, of course. However, if a municipality in this way feels completely unreasonably overwhelmed by the county council in matters that are essential to the municipality, I would strongly appeal to that municipality to appeal and ensure that the matter enters the Ministry of Environmental Protection. This is just an example of the lack of a local solution in Rogaland. Egersund Municipality and County Council have not agreed. The matter should then be sent to the Ministry of the Environment, and then there is a reasonable chance that we will give Egersund the municipality right, without – again – that I know this matter at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1548	It is a striking feature of the debate that when the parties of government and the Council of State have the floor, it is a long way to go that it is the state that has all the answers and solutions. I would like to say that I am very proud that the Council of State places Børge Burnde together as a booth like Harald Haarfager. It's maybe a place he really deserves – we can come back to that. But what's strange is that the Council of State uses almost all of its efforts to defend the excellence of government policy by referring to the importance of soil protection. That meaning is right-wing. Soil protection is important. But then it's strange that neither in the Council's response letter nor in the Government's comments on the matter are soil protection mentioned once. But then to my question to the Council of State. The focus is on these 29 – as I understand it – issues that have come to the Ministry of the Environment. How many objections at municipal level have State authorities submitted in total — do the Council of State know that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1557	I always hesitate to take that kind of number over the table, but I think we're talking about 2,000 to 3,000, then with all the reservations that it might be wrong. It's true that I compared Børge Brende to Harald Haarfare. But the most interesting thing is that they both agree more with the government parties in these matters – at least through their practices as politicians – than they are with the Right of the Day. What I'm wondering about at the Right is that they can't admit that they've changed course fundamentally here. Government parties have contributed to the enhancement of the relationship between the local level and the central level. We have added the governance of national parks – now up to 15 – to the local level. This did not happen when the Right was sitting with the government. We've nuanced the coastal zone policy. This did not happen when the Right was sitting with the government. And I fully documented in my post here instead how we to the point and dot follow what Knut Arild Hareide and Børge Burnde said about the so-called non-interventional areas when they were environmental protection ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1566	In answer to my question, the Council of State suggests that there may be 2000 to 3000 objections. It could be very interesting to get this number on the table. There are 2 000 plans in total. During all the conversations I have with elected representatives at municipal level, frustration is increasing – it is increasing under this government. I think we should take that seriously. I also think that perhaps the Council of States should pay more attention to that in its articles. On the 2nd of December last year, the Council of State says, referring to the right of the spontaneous questioning hour claiming that 70 pst. of the area of Norway affected by non-interventional natural areas: "Today, the right comes up and says that up to 50 pst. are affected by non-interventional natural areas by Norway.» The background is that the Directorate of Nature Management says that 45 pst. the area of the country is free of intervention by definition. Then there's a 1 kilometer edge zone. Then the area comes to 70 pst. Does the Council of State dispute these figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1579	Firstly, they asked about the number of objections. Of course, we're going to make that happen. It may even be that my office can give it to me, so that I can give it in a later article here. If we can't, we'll of course have to state it in a letter to the representative, to the Stortinget. In terms of the numbers of non-interventional natural areas: yes, I dispute them. We've explained it earlier. The most interesting thing in the lines from the Right here is that the Right seems to be as important to soil protection as the government's. Then I would love to know what kind of system the Right is going to do for soil protection. It is about the sum of the many local decisions, which are individually well justified. It's not for malicious reasons you ruin land, you do it because it's convenient to build a school there, a road here or a football field there. How should a system of soil protection be provided, if there is no degree of national guidance for this and no possibility of intervention – at least in the most serious cases where soil protection is taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1588	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1591	The signatures share the clear intentions of the proposers that it is important to strengthen local democracy and ownership in environmental and land management. The Laws of Design and Building attach most people. Therefore, decisions should be taken as closely as possible to create the greatest possible legitimacy. All too often, we see that well anchored — often co-consulted — local decisions are under test by county departments or by the Ministry of Environment. When it is claimed that in half of the cases appealed to the Ministry of the Environment, the municipalities are supported, it is after a very time-consuming process, perhaps over the years, in which the municipalities have had to comply with most of the complaints from the county or county council, before the decision is finally taken in the Ministry of the Environment. By default - when the plans are created - a system knows and doesn't insert things that you can't get through. An attempt to search for a system that is readable. Nevertheless, there is a massive resistance. In this light, there are no local decisions that are particularly respected. Greater power and authority to local democracy will therefore strengthen the legitimacy of local politicians and make this work meaningful. Simplification is also a mantra, and it's good, whether it's for business form or public search jungle and bureaucracy. When the position claims that the municipality is the primary authority of land management and has the primary responsibility to determine the use of land within the area of ownership, there is a long way to go a utopia. A search must not be long before a finder contradicts the state's environmental departments that fully take the decision of local democracy. I have been running municipal and county municipal selections for many years and know the system very well – I have that experience. If the environmental department does not turn on, it is a cultural department of archaeologists and cultural memory protection that stands out – beyond what is appropriate – and binds large areas, with a background in the tracks for pole finds in the sand or coca pits that must be protected for the future, despite the fact that there are thousands of similar findings close to everything that is expected. One might wonder if the value of bridging and protecting the area where these findings are done. One can understand and accept that registration and mapping of these findings are being done, but to bind and protect the area because finding traces of color in the sand after poles or residues after cooking pits is too many unimaginable and meaningless. And no one checks the professional assessment that single archaeologists stand for, probably because one doesn't want to get along with their colleagues. This is a threat to democracy. And it is a fact – it can be demonstrated – that practices differ from region to region and from state to state. In a concrete case in which the signatures have been orientated, one third of the area was intended for housing development, to the great amazement of archaeologists from the Bergen Museum, who clearly indicated that this would not be banned or protected in neighbouring Sogn and Fjordane. It goes without saying that when one third of the planned development area is protected, it's used over 0.5 million. kr on archaeological excavations – also burdening the builder – is the economic loss of the builder. In this case, it means a million for an idealistic developer who would bet a little bit in the municipality of residence. On the South Sunnmore, there have been a number of issues where municipalities have gone out publicly and have been very critical of the kind of challenges that excavating costs have and are an important part. After a regional medium, Sunnmørsposten, wrote that this would be a theme in my article today, there are several contacts. A person experiences the binding that responsible archaeologist Øyunn Kleiva stands for, as grave. It is not understood and not accepted. If we had set up a new regime, where the community through the cultural department had to take financial co-responsibility for archaeological excavations, they would be forced to prioritize with the professional community they are part of. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, and the costs of this work are imposed on the builder and appear to be random. In other words, it is high time it is cleaned up in this form of self-declaration to which it is referred, if local policies and involvement are to appear meaningful. The party of progress will be clear that this practice is contrary to the constitutional property law, and there is something we want to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1614	There are few things that involve local politicians more than the frustration of being overruled by government authorities. The unique signal they give is that the override has increased under the red-green government. Right-wing engages in this matter because we have an ideological approach to making decisions in society as close as possible to the people involved. We believe that it gives democracy and democracy deep roots, and that it is a prerequisite for good social development. That's why we're concerned about the development of this government, how much power has moved up to state authorities. During the Committee's consultation on this matter, the KS, the local sector interest and employers' organisation, strongly supported the proposal of the Right, precisely because the Municipality of Norway gives such clear signals that the state over-management has now gone too far. It is thought-provoking that such an important social actor is not taken seriously by the government parties. I've had the pleasure of being a local politician since 1995. I have experienced many beautiful local initiatives where fires, in cooperation with the local government, have really created forward-looking and positive developments. The framework for much of this local development was the Fredrikstad Declaration. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘Our starting point is that local communities have a key role to play in achieving sustainable development and that environmental and development issues are best addressed by the participation of those directly affected.’ This is completely consistent with the Right approach to both municipal self-government and local environmental work. At the time, national authorities were a driver of this type of work. I searched the Ministry of the Environment's document archive on the Internet before this debate. The last time the Fredrikstad Declaration was mentioned – at least according to my search – was under the government of Bondevik II. Why has the red-green government completely turned its focus and turned its back on local environmental work? Clearly, only national policies and solutions should apply, as this debate has also fully confirmed. When you read the reasons for rejecting the proposal from the Right, is that what you are saying, namely that ‘it is important to continue the system of objection in the planning system’, or, as the Council of State Solheim expressed it in a debate on this topic here in Stortinget on 10 May last year, ‘shall any majority in any municipality be allowed to destroy nature in its municipality for future generations’? More clearly, the distrust of local democracy can hardly be expressed, and similar belief in the excellence of state authorities. Clearly, all responses and solutions lie with the central authorities, even though all rapporteurs, local government representatives and KS are asking for greater trust and greater freedom. That's what the right will give the municipalities with this proposal. I would also like to add that – in my view at least – it will be entirely in line with Harald Haarfager's vision of the development of the Kingdom. In particular, I would like to draw attention to our proposal that the concept of ‘intervention-free natural areas’, abbreviated INN, should no longer be given weight to dealing with spatial matters. According to the Directorate for Nature Management's websites, INON is 45 pst. of the land area of Norway. But because they require a 1-km buffer zone according to the definition of these areas, this buffer zone also comes in. Calculations then show that INON is 70 pst. the area of the country. This huge extent is one thing. But that this term is not legal, makes the matter even more serious. The budget proposal for the Ministry of the Environment for this year lists no less than 16 laws that the government considers to allow restrictions on such an enormous area. Not one of these 16 laws refers to ‘intruder-free natural areas’. It strikes me that the Center Party, which in many ways and historically has been the Right Ally in terms of fighting for ownership, does not even mention in the main post the term INON from a principal point of view. This government has moved that term in the wrong direction by, for example, to introduce two new guidelines for small hydropower plants and wind turbines. We see it in an increasing number of government documents highlighting this concept. It's the right-hand side. We want it liquidated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1643	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1646	When Harald Haarfachre gathered the empire, there was an opportunity for those who felt overwhelmed, to throw themselves in the boat and calm down to Iceland. We don't have that possibility anymore. There are some who are sorry. What strikes me when I listen to this debate is the lack of concern about the trust that prevails between the local population of the municipalities that are most heavily affected by intervention, and the State Council of Solheim as a representative of the state power. The description Solheim County Council gave, was that this really goes quite well, and Solheim has traveled on some trips around the country and visited her. For it is largely the rapporteurs of the government, whether they are from the Central Party or they are from the Workers' Party, who sit around – at least in my country – where the national parks form large parts of the mountain areas. So I think, well, if it's not a symptom, when you see what things over the next few years have had to be brought into this room? I'm talking about e.g. Snøheimwegen, whether the action ‘Suffice enough’, about weasel driving from Hövringen, about the development of the Bjorli centre and now about the subsequent questions related to the Langsua National Park, which is, of course, a much bigger question, but still. Isn't it a signal to take seriously when you have to start so huge – what should I say – reactions to be listened to? My view of the local population's perception of the situation is that one faces a six-headed troll, a troll in which the County Environmental Protection Department, the Directorate for Nature Management, the State Nature Control, the State Forest, the Ministry of the Environment and, in particular, environmental protection organisations which have legal interest in the areas are a powerful counterweight to the real ability to manage their areas. The national park boards that have been set up in recent years are not perceived as real by large sections of the population. Local trust is important in order to succeed in environmental protection policy. That means you have to give. You don't get local actors to take responsibility until you actually give responsibility. I hope that in the years to come, the government will find ways to give responsibility and trust that local government is sustainable, as well as the key leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1661	The right set up its own proprietary committee after the 2009 election. This sample was to look at the framework conditions for private ownership and local self-determination in Norway. This proposal for a representative we are now discussing is one of the results of this work and is one of the fundamental values we believe must be the basis of good social development, both for the proper protection of private property rights and for decisions to be taken as closely as possible to the individual citizen and his community. In a few months' time there will be local elections and county elections, and all parties are working to get good candidates for their election lists. Unfortunately, many local politicians and communities experience the right to make important decisions, such as: land disbursements, taken over by state authorities, and that the space for action of local politicians and thereby the motivation for involvement is narrowed. I share the concern of the representative, Olemic Thommessen, that the government is not taking this issue sufficiently seriously. I have even visited municipalities and individual companies on several occasions in connection with these questions, and that is all possible cause for concern. On the right, we believe that closeness to decisions and knowledge of local conditions is important in order to produce good policy and robust solutions. We believe that state authorities today spend far too much resources – and this is taxpayers’ money – on detailed governance of communities and decisions, which should be at a municipally elected level. We believe that these resources can be used for other good purposes. In addition to the resources used by public authorities, private individuals and businesses will have to spend time, application forms, other documents and capital on these processes. Some areas of the country have large areas which are protected for various reasons. Much of the potential for value creation and housing in District Norway lies in the ability to exploit its natural values in one way or another. I therefore hope that the proposals to ask the government to establish its own strategy for industrial development in municipalities with large protection areas will have a majority. For protection to have local support, it is important that the livelihood is also preserved, and from the Right we are always in search of the good solutions, where protection can be combined with use. Mr. Brende has been mentioned earlier in the debate, and was there anyone who made the point of protecting and combining protection and use, among other things. this Council of State from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1676	I had actually believed that even though you were perhaps both deaf and blind, you had recorded the conflict line that is about to develop between a dominant state and overrun municipalities. The frustration is great over a state that is characterized by an over-judgment, and a county that has become more and more an over-communal. It's not hard to find pretty fresh examples. Later in the post I will focus on wild reindeer management, but will also mention that in local extension cases, unanimous decisions are stranded in local councils on housing and other scattered settlements in a county that will centralise all developments. After all, the bureaucracy in the Law on Planning and Building is a separate chapter. It's actually the private property and local government that have created the society we're now centralizing the administration of. It's a paradox: good governance and property rights that have built values are punished for being deprived of responsibility. Then it breaks the trust that the representative Olemic Thommessen was also in. Local communities that have lived according to their surroundings for decades experience the central distrust. National interests exist, of course, it's obvious, but it's not going to apply to everything. National protection shall be the exception, in which case it shall be as voluntary as possible. The rule shall be that local administration gives local responsibility and thus the best management. The wild rain is a good example in that picture. Here more than 200 people elected in different municipalities, from Dovre in the north, Sel and Fron in the west, Hamar in the south to Rendalen in the east, negotiated a proposal for a regional management plan for wild rain. It is these, along with the basic owners, who have created the wild reindeer tribe we have today. It's stronger and more viable than ever, and it's really just the Ministry of the Environment's predatory game policy that's the biggest threat. But the peoples of Oppland and Hedmark dominate the peoples. Four employees without any anchor in public responsibility override 200 elected members of the public who are responsible for their community. The county takes a rematch on everything from cabins built to the community's ability to dispose of the land. People's ability to maintain and continue to use their cabins should be crushed in such a way that it reminds them of expropriation, without compensation. When the government – and the Central Party in particular – rejects the proposals that have been made here on the right hand side, I think it bears witness that there is no contact whatsoever with the current trends in the communities and in the electorate. It's got to be someone else's concern than Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1691	We're all from one place. I come from a place and a municipality, and I do not recognize myself in the debate that is going on here. This debate clearly shows that the proposal from the Right and the Progress Party – I was saying – is not true. So when there are 2,000 municipal plans that go into print, and there are no problems with – 29 of them have challenges, half of them don't even have anything to do with it – then at least we don't relate to the same reality description. I was a municipal politician for 16 years in Northern Ireland, in a press area – which was then, and which is now. One of the most difficult of all, as a municipal politician, was able to look not only at his own nose tip and within his own borders, but actually to see that one has responsibility beyond his own borders. What was very simple as a municipal politician was to take responsibility for everything within their own borders – not to think that everyone else would take care of the beach zone, cultural memories, or what it was supposed to be. What I experience with this debate is that there is no one who has special care for the law, or that one has special care for local democracy, but that it is actually a real political disagreement. I justify that in many of the municipalities – at least after my experience – it was such that the Right Party and the Advance Party were not to protect either the beach zone, the soil protection, the open-air life or the cultural memory protection. Very often they weren't. If they were there and were there in municipal plans or district plans, they were pale almost enough dry before the dispensation applications flowed in, and the Right and Advance Party turned in their case. So when one in the Right and Advance Party says that one is occupied with individuals, I believe them in it. But the government parties are occupied by every single person in this country, including those who do not own property, or who are builders and want to expand or to nourish. We want to see everyone else and their right to both beach area, soil protection, outdoor life and cultural memory protection. We can have two thoughts in our head at the same time and do both. I think what we're doing today is what we're going to measure in the future. In any case, what the government parties want to measure in the future is that we are able to have sustainable municipalities and a country that is able to maintain both business development, housing, grazing animals and predators, while at the same time being able to give all the people who do not own property access to our natural areas. So in the case of KS, yes, they've agreed with much of the proposal that's on the table. But the KS has also said clearly that they want national leadership, because the KS sees that the municipalities also need and wish to take responsibility beyond their own nose tip and beyond their own borders, to a greater extent than the Right and Advance Party will probably ever want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1704	Now there are probably real political dividing lines in this case, and the dividing lines go between the position and the opposition. As a member of the municipal committee, I travel a lot in Norway, talking a lot with spokesmen from all the political parties. It is thought-provoking to see how wide the irritation is among our spokespersons that they are overrun by county, county and state, especially in land issues. It was shown here to Harald Haarfagerre that this case and these proposals are a struggle against Harald Haarfagerre and the ideas he stood for. It's a little hard to understand such a claim, especially when we look around in the cities that were built after Harald Haarfarere's time. At least it's revealed that one didn't have statesmen at that time. It looks one way in the southern villages, which are built with narrow smacks, which are today culture and protective. I would also claim that my nearest city, Bergen, would hardly have been built if Lars Sponheim had been in the county at that time. Those who are local politicians and manage the spatial plan, i.e. manage local matters, are sensible people. I think that in many ways they are distrusted if one is going to try them out in every case, as the position and the government party here wants. It is clear that it is also a democratic problem if you have a popular local government that makes a broad assessment, and is then tested by a state bureaucrat, who doesn't have to stand up for what he has done, and the objections he makes. It has now been said by the Council of State that there is a danger of "squareness" from both local government and county authorities, etc. at the whole of the manager. That may be true, but if local politicians are square and do not act in line with what is opinion – the voters – their opinion, then they can be replaced every four years. There can't be bureaucrats in the county. Local options cannot replace them. It is also shown that there are so few cases that come to the department, that this can't be a problem. It's obvious to us who've been around and who's talking to the local politicians, that it's because one of these people is being pressured into agreeing with the state – not because one is happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1719	Everyone comes from a place, said the representative Eirin Sund, and it inspired me to draw me again. The representative Sund says that she does not recognise these issues, with reference to the place she herself comes from, and I am familiar with the municipality of Gäsdal in Rogaland. I would like to say that the representative Eirin Sund does not recognise his own municipality of origin, but I do. Just a few months ago, I had a meeting, together with the representative Bjørn Lødemel, with the rapporteur from the Christian People's Party in Gjesdal Municipality, Olaug Bollestad, and the plan manager in this municipality. Then we were told about the process that Gjesdal Municipality has had with regard to rolling out its municipal plan, and what challenges they have had with the issue being discussed here today in terms of state detail management. The county council in Rogaland has had a number of objections to this municipal plan — many of them based on discretion. To take one example – to the representative Eirin Sund: One of the objections from the county council was that there was a disagreement with the municipality of Gjesdal about how many inhabitants could imagine settling in a municipality in Gjesdal, the municipality of Gjesdal. The county councillor in Rogaland thought that the municipality of Gäsdal had a far too optimistic view of how many people would want to settle in Oltedal – that is, a ground of objection to some plans there. Many objections were based on a discretionary basis. I would therefore urge the representative Eirin Sund to have greater contact with his home municipality and his constituency and to address the serious issues that the municipality of Gésdal, like very many other communities in this country, disagree with, and that the Right wants to address, among other things. with this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1729	Let me end by saying that the government is going to come back to Stortinget with a case about the so-called non-interventional natural areas, so we get the chance to discuss it then. We're going to present the exact, perfectly precise numbers that were requested here, in a letter or in any other way to the Stortinget. There's none of this that's secret. I just have to get it perfectly precise. Let me also say that the complaint that came, that many municipalities perceive that they are being centralized, and that many rapporteurs are frustrated by it, I am not in any doubt about it, but it is a mild, mild breeze now compared to what it was like when Erna Solberg was municipal minister. Then there was a continuous complaint from the whole municipality of Norway about how one was overrun by Jern-Erna, and not getting money for any of the world's things. We had a conference of rapporteurs at Røros very recently. More than 50 rapporteurs were there, and what was to be celebrated and passed on was the National Park Plan. We're approaching the goal of it. Then I went in and did a study to see who has actually implemented national park plans in Norway. It was actually two. We were red-green, and it was Børge Burnde. These were the two periods during which many new Norwegian national park plans were implemented. That's also why I'm pulling Børge Burnde out here today. When the Right People get a little pressured into debates that they're really not so very natural and environmentally friendly when it comes to the play, you get to the seventh and finally always back to: yes, but Børge Burnde. Yes, Børge Burnde did a lot in this area. It's the only competitor of the red-greens in implementing national park plans. But it was we who implemented the local administration of the national parks. So compared to the situation under Børge Burnde, a significant step has now been taken towards giving municipalities more practical influence on national parks. When the Center Party includes, among others: suspended and tried to be stamped by the Right here, the Centre Party has contributed very actively to the fact that in a central area more power has been moved out to the municipalities again, just to get to what the case rapporteur had to say, namely that those who are closest should avoid detailed control, but that one should be given overall control according to the plan. Yes, Børge Brende and the red-green have implemented active nature protection policies and national park plans, but we have moved power to the municipalities – not only talked about it, but practically implemented it. So the attempt here made – to create an ideological conflict between state and municipality – boils down to the seventh and finally to another ideological conflict, and it's more or less environmental protection. It's the real conflict here. The proposal put forward will lead to significantly less environmental protection in Norway. Let me end by saying that since we have brought Harald Haarfachre forward as one of the ideals – not only Børge Brende – in this debate, he was also very active in the municipalities. I just read a book for my nine-year-old son about Harald Hårfager, and there it turned out that the historian thought he had at least twelve documented wives and at least 100 children around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1744	The President assumes that there is no ideal, even for the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1747	Just a brief comment to the State Council Solheim, who so happily comes back to the former State Council Burnde. We were very pleased with the government council fire in the right as well. Another important perspective, as well as establishing the parks, was that Børge Burnde was a pioneer in terms of looking at protection and use. After all, he was the one who opened up another approach to how national parks should also have a community value creation page. It's a crucial and important point that the current government might have worked a little bit further. Many of the municipalities we are talking about are small and from a business perspective quite vulnerable municipalities, which really need the resources they have. Then it is clear that some of the business conflicts we encounter between use and protection might have been better compensated by a slightly simpler approach to how the outfield can also be used for business purposes. So the suns of Solheim are in local government. Yes, thank you, we are happy for all the contributions. But it only helps so sadly little to create local governments and draw squares and lines between who will decide what, as long as the surrounding bureaucracy and the surrounding state power apparatus are intact and very, very resourceful. The main problem is the dispensation of large government bureaucracies that are perceived as pure stakeholder organisations in relation to the issues they are going to manage and that are perceived as rather far from responsive. An important step could have been taken, which may go a little further than this proposal – which, at least, I personally and Uppland Right are concerned about – is to step down further some of these red tapes we are talking about, and bring in as much as possible under political governance. Meeting with these bureaucracies, you'll find that it's quite a long way from the topics we can address in this room to the one you actually get, for example. in the State Department of Nature Management or in the Directorate of Nature Management. Had it been up to Uppland Right, we would have cried throughout the bureaucracy and minimized it as much as possible. What we would be left with – for something it would be – would have been placed under the Ministry of the Environment, and then we had a government council to hold responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1758	This has been a retrospective debate in many ways. We've been talking about a king who was born about. 850 and died 931/932. Since the Council of State wrote with its knowledge of Harald Haarfaferre, I also had to follow up on it. After all, he became king 22 years old and was in and of himself a king who lived a long time. Governments have also been concerned about Børge Burnde. Let me assure the Council of State that Børge Brende is still a member of the Right, and he was also when he was Minister of Environmental Protection. He was also a member of a government and thus represented the Right Policy. We were, as the representative Thommes was within, very pleased with him as Minister for the Environment, and we will certainly be equally pleased with the next Minister of Environmental Protection from the Right. But the basic thing is that we have some national targets and commitments in the field of environmental protection. They're stuck. It also presupposes this proposal, and the Council of State may itself read under heading F: ‘The national objectives and obligations of Norway regarding the conservation of diversity of species are assumed to be established.’ But that doesn't mean that we're going to have a fundamental mistrust of local elected representatives, as the Council of State here shows. Freedom under responsibility, there's something called. That is a good conservative concept, and it should also be practised. We should give local politicians the freedom to exercise responsibility. If they get that freedom, they will also exercise it. Then the Council of State will see that there will be no less environmental protection, but perhaps there will actually be more environmental protection if the responsibility is shifted closer to the people involved. This is also about Norway being a very different country. The review tone of the coastal zone policy, which seems to be dealing with any matter in the coastal zone as if it were in the Inner Oslofjord or along a small stretch of the South, is also based on a crazy perception of how this country is really connected, and what different needs and considerations, despite everything, apply in different parts of the country. We have the law of marks as an example of how the government thinks. The land has been managed locally in a sensible and sustainable way over the last 50 years — over the last 100 years, after Kristiana Municipality first bought some forests. It has been protected primarily by rational use and management and further development, not by hermetisation, as the new law provides, not by centralisation, as the new law provides, but by trust in local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1776	I was going to let Astrup get the last words, but that representation of the law on the marks is so fundamentally misleading that I was a little surprised. What is the reality is that the Right – after they withdrew the law under the government of Willoch in 1981 – 30 years later until the seventh and last, a little reluctantly, accepted the Marka Act. Why don't you be a little proud of that? So the government has gone into all the important decisions that have been made so far, and demonstrated that we are just in favour of using the Marka. We have accepted the Bogstad art track, we have accepted this skate system to get the snowboard World Championship in 2013, and we have accepted a ski stadium in Rälingen. So we've accepted all of the things that have been dealt with. The point with this is to set a default for Marka. Then we've shown to those degrees that there are three purposes of the Marka Act: it's nature protection, it's outdoors and it's sports, sports in the sense of modern sports that change, and that take on new tools. The Marka Act is just an example of the opposite of what Astrup uses as an example. It's an example of the government adding up to protection through use.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1783	It is not this government's profit that the law of the mark is now being practised in this way. If the government had wanted to add to just as flexible a practice as it has gradually become, they would have suggested it in the first place. What the government has done, after being pressured from skirmish to skimp, is to have had to accept a more liberal practice. The World Cup in Oslo could not take place if the Marka Act had been adopted when the World Cup was decided and the expansion was done. It's a cross of thought. I think we can all agree that the World Cup in Oslo was successful, but it would not have happened if it was up to the Council of State Erik Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1790	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1806	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1815	As I signed several articles at the end of the previous case, I will be brief in this matter. Nordics are increasingly consuming products containing substances that are harmful to health and the environment, and thus increasing the quantity of hazardous waste. This challenge needs to be addressed from two levels. Firstly, it is imperative that Norway contributes to limiting the amount of environmentally hazardous substances involved in the production of small electronics. Most of this production takes place outside the borders of Norway and Europe. It is therefore a demanding task, which must have a long-term perspective. Secondly, importers, outlets and consumers of this type of product must have good incentives to collect and deliver environmentally hazardous waste for recycling and proper management. The electronics industry has no doubt a specific responsibility to contribute to the increased collection of small electronics within the current return system, and measures beyond the current return system must be introduced in consultation with both the waste industry and the electronic industry, and seen in conjunction with the results of the existing schemes. The collection of small electronics is not satisfactory. Only one third of the waste is collected. There are alarming figures, as it has to be assumed that very many environmentally hazardous waste is in the ordinary waste system with a high potential for the spread of substances harmful to health and the environment in nature. At the same time, many electrical products contain components composed of the raw material contained in limited quantities and therefore have high value. Increased collection of small electronics is primarily positive for the environment, but it is also socio-economic and business-economically profitable. The Committee has noted that the Council of State will carry out an assessment of what can be achieved through measures to increase the collection of priority product-types, and we assume that the proposals of the proposers are included in that assessment. The Committee recommends that Documents 8:5 S for 2010-2011 be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1839	We are now dealing with a very important proposal for a representative, which concerns people of all ages. I think that most people are concerned about how they can help to prevent siphoning when the products go out of use. I believe that people today sincerely want to be sure that such environmentally hazardous waste will not harm the environment when the products go out of use. At the same time, we know that the volume of such waste is strongly increasing, and that new products are constantly coming that last shorter and shorter time and that can cause significant damage if it is not properly destroyed after use. That is why this matter is very important to have on the agenda. Here it is essential that we have good tools in place to invite both consumers and businesses to the proper care of this hazardous waste. I am well pleased that the government and the responsible state council are concerned about this, and that the overall objective is increased collection of such waste. I think it is important that this work now takes place step by step, and that the measures taken are targeted and effective. At the same time, I think we should be happy that so much has happened in the waste sector in recent years, and that we have an excellent basis for moving on. In this connection, I refer to the letter from the Council of State to the Committee, where he says that: ‘Norway is the country in Europe with the highest delivery of electrical and electronic products’. This is uplifting, and it gives a good starting point for doing even more. As waste progresses and as it becomes more and more waste, measures need to be put in place to reach the whole country, so that systems become effective and targeted. There must be no geographical restrictions here, but everyone must be reached where they live. Such waste exists wherever people live and work. What we are talking about here is both an environmental issue and often also an issue relating to the exploitation of waste as a resource, as the rapporteur pointed out. There must therefore be an interaction between the authorities, manufacturers, distributors and consumers on safe and good arrangements for the management of this waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1859	In response to the Committee, Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Erik Solheim, wrote on 12 November that he wanted to take the initiative in assessing alternative tools in addition to those we have today, with the aim of increasing the collection of small electronics. It is then that the Committee assumes that the Council of States' assessment will also include its proposal to introduce a label and mortgage scheme for products classified as hazardous waste. The signatures were recently on a visit to Nokia, Finland, where we had a discussion round about recycling mobile phones. This is a product that will be replaced at short intervals. The fact that there could be practical challenges to such a scheme was not concealed, and that was probably the reason for a certain reservation to recommend such a scheme by the manufacturer. However, the possibility of recycling mobile phones is good, and the rate of recycling would be high if such measures were introduced. The drive-through is focused on the optimum use of resources, and therefore we are not unwilling to look at measures that can bring environmental benefits, but it must also provide real benefits and not appear to be symbolic policies, which cost more than it tastes. Unfortunately, there are examples of this also in the fight for a better environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1872	The central party's basic position in waste policy is essentially to reduce the amount of waste. We want to facilitate products and consumption that do not lead to increased amounts of waste. At the same time, we are committed to increasing source sorting, increasing recycling rates and exploiting waste energy. Therefore, the Centre Party is also concerned that as much of the hazardous waste as possible is to be collected, handled properly and reused. The level of collection for small electronics is too low today. There are many different reasons, and one of them is lack of knowledge. A population survey conducted by Norstat for Operation Duppededit — the 2009 Small Electronics Campaign — showed that a total of 25 pst. is uncertain or not aware of the return arrangements for electronic and electrical products. The whole 42 pst. of which less than 30 years of age are uncertain or unaware that discarded small electronics must not be disposed of together with other waste. There were eye-catching numbers, and we especially noticed that young people were getting negative. It's a trend we have to turn around. The collection and recycling of hazardous waste is important, and we need good incentives for both consumers and businesses. The electronics industry has a special responsibility that they must and must follow up. The authorities need to look at additional measures to further raise the collection rate. Therefore, the Centre Party is pleased that alternative instruments will be considered in addition to those we have today. The Climate and Pollution Directorate – Clif – is already at work. We need to be sure that we find good, feasible and effective solutions in cooperation with the industry. There is no indication that a compulsory mortgage scheme is most effective. It's going to be part of the assessment. The centre party looks forward to the Klif assessment of what measures they think are needed and which will be most effective. We need more good tools to prevent hazardous waste from leading to emissions of pollutants and chemicals, rather than going to collection and recycling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1883	The proposal for the Left may not be the biggest proposal, but it is an important proposal – an important proposal on something that we are all missing in our everyday lives. Because it's really about people's everyday lives. In our everyday lives, we have many small or slightly larger tools that are good to have, but they are not always as environmentally friendly, at least if we don't handle them in a good way after we've finished these tools in our everyday lives. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that it will consider additional instruments to stimulate the increased submission of small electronic waste. In particular, he points to savers containing severe pollutants, such as mercury, and also mobile phones containing a number of dangerous substances. The council also refers to 95 pst. mobile phones can be recovered. The Christian People's Party believes that the time has come for stronger incentives than what we have today, so that we get a better handling of these articles, and that we can recover them more than is the case today. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the Left, and I will then address the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1892	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1895	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough review of this proposal for a representative from the Left. I might have expected a more offensive attitude, especially from parties claiming to be environmental parties. So a special thanks to the Christian People's Party for bringing the proposal forward in the position, and the Left will of course vote for this today. The letter from the Minister for the Environment is very positive. He writes about the responsibilities of the industry, but you don't get very reassured after hearing about what Nokia thinks about the matter. The Council of State also writes that he will ‘assess alternative instruments to increase collection’ — and that is positive. However, I would like to encourage the Minister for the Environment to be a little more specific in the article here today. The blame for common products and waste regulation in the EEA regions seems to me a little sought after. What about being an offensive pusher internationally? The left is concerned with Norway working internationally to ban the most dangerous pollutants. It is also important to stimulate efforts to develop less hazardous and health-free alternatives to these at international level, both through economic instruments and stricter industrial concessions. If mortgage schemes are introduced for small electronics, I am absolutely sure there are many entrepreneurs who want to pop up and find good ideas on how to handle this. Then I'm a little disappointed that good proposals from the opposition will again be downgraded. It happens all the time, and then they show up again in the media as excellent ideas from the red-green. But for the environment, it is, after all, the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1906	Norway is the world leader in the collection of large electronics, i.e. refrigerators, freezers, stoves, etc. There we have a very high level of collection — so high that for example: when the EU was about to adopt a directive to this effect, which was discussed at the EU Environment Ministerial meeting last week, Norway was a positive example, which shows that this can be done. However, as mentioned in the debate here, Norway – and other EU countries as well – is struggling to achieve a corresponding collection of small electronics. That's why it's positive that the Left comes with such an initiative. We can't continue to have a situation where almost all of the small electronics either stay in the drawers at home or go to waste. We do not know the correct distribution of this, but in any case it is not a proper handling of it. That is why I invited you to a meeting in January with the main actors in this area. As I see it, there are three groups of them. It's the big food chains, i.e. Rema, Rimi and others that deliver a series of consumables to people. Then it's the electronics industry -- Nokia was mentioned here. And then the waste companies are going to handle this. It may also be others, but at least these are the most important actors here. I asked them to come up with suggestions on how to get a significantly higher collection rate. I also made it clear that if they are unable to come up with such proposals and actually demonstrate that they are being implemented, we must look at a mortgage arrangement. Most of the actors in the industry themselves were different kinds of information measures. It may work, but I allow myself to be somewhat skeptical that information alone will bring the necessary results. But in any case, more information and better organization for this from the industry itself is a very good thing. And then we're going to have a mortgage arrangement in parallel. I warn against what I thought was a bit of an underlying tone in the Left's position here, that one should first adopt, and then one should investigate. I think it's putting a cart in front of the horse. We might have to figure this out first, before we can do anything, because there's a series of questions that have to be solved. Grimstad was concerned that if we get a system where this is collected without proper treatment afterwards, it will only bring environmental protection into discredit and indifference. We need a good system for how to take care of and use the mobile phones that are collected. A decision must be made on how to deposit a pledge, if any. Should it be in kilos, in pieces? What should be included in this? Because you get more and more small electronics. It's everything from mobile phones to tiny parts in toys and in many other things, i.e. small electronics. One of the reasons for introducing the scheme in this area is an incredibly fast-growing industry, for this is becoming more and more products of all kinds. I don't think we're going to get away from the fact that we have to go up the frontier with definitions, how we're going to do it and make the systems, before we finally decide if we're going to have this. But all these questions are what we ask the Climate and Pollution Directorate to investigate, and then when we see the sum of this and see if the voluntary measures will work, we will come back to proposing a mortgage scheme. I also have to add that Telenor will take the initiative of a national effort to collect mobile phones in collaboration with sports teams. It is also a very positive initiative, which I would like to see whether it can also have the necessary effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1922	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1925	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that it will be difficult to introduce a more extensive labelling and mortgage scheme for environmentally hazardous waste in Norway due to common product and waste regulation in the EEA area. At the same time, the Council of State just said in his speech that he would investigate this. That is, of course, what the Committee is asking for. However, my understanding is that the EU allows for specific measures with environmental policy justification in very many areas. I therefore ask the Council of State to clarify why he writes in the letter to the Committee that it will not be possible in this area. Does he think that this common product and waste regulation in the EEA area will stand in the way of other measures that the Council of State might consider in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1930	I have mentioned this solely on the basis of the information obligation I feel towards Stortinget, that the Storting should be familiar with all the possible factors that may be relevant on the occasion of the case. Of course, we will do our utmost to find solutions here that are in line with EU legislation and that will find acceptance in the EU. I am also quite optimistic about this area, precisely because there is a great drive in the EU itself to achieve much better systems, and the willingness to possibly allow some countries to go further – and ahead – is always greater in areas where the EU itself wants to achieve something. Environment Commissioner Potocnik, for example, is very interested in getting tight regulation of this market in the EU itself. I therefore believe that the possibility that we might go even further will be great.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1937	Let me clarify the question: is there anything wrong with going further, as the situation is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1942	EFTA/ESA system, etc. is a complex system. I don't want to answer that over the table. That is of the things we are going to look at, and that Stortinget when they are presented with a matter about it, of course, is going to be familiar with. Now it is a well-known matter that I have usually been willing to do the knit more in relation to the EU than the representative of Astrup, so I do not think it should be on our will to do this as far as possible for the environment and Norway in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1949	The Council of State refers in its article here in the Chamber today to the fact that he has taken some further steps in relation to the letter he wrote to the Stortinget on 12 November last year. He has had a meeting with both the food industry, the electrical industry and the waste industry, while he has given Clif a commission to investigate any mortgage arrangement. The questions that I think the Council of State owes to Stortingen to get some clarity about are: When will this investigation possibly be available? And: When can the Stortinge get presented with such a case? Can it be in the government budget for 2012 or already revised for 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1956	It can be difficult so early, given that we have given the industry itself a chance to demonstrate through its own actions that we can get a drastic improvement on this. The industry doesn't want mortgages. None of the professional organisations I heard want to hear that. But they claim that through many other measures they can succeed in drastically increasing the collection rate. If they succeed in doing so – mortgage is something we do because we can't do it otherwise – it's good. They have to have a chance to do that. But in parallel with that, from – what should I call it – a healthy scepticism that information alone will be enough here, we'll figure out a mortgage arrangement, and then we'll come back to Stortinget with it. But the exact time for that I can't give now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1961	The Minister for the Environment criticized the Left to decide first and then settled. This draft representative submitted to the Left on 4 October 2010. On January 19, 2011, we read in Today's Business: ‘Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim is in favour of mortgages on small-electronics such as mobile phones and hair dryers.’ So he's decided before he's judged. It is also written that he ‘has asked the Climate and Pollution Directorate to assess mortgage arrangements for small electronic products’. This was in January. Can the Council of State say anything more about progress? What about the assessment of that mortgage scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1975	All of this goes into a higher clarity, namely that I have been positive to a mortgage arrangement all along. I'm fundamentally sceptical that information alone will solve the problem. This applies not only in this area, but also in a series of other areas, where there is confidence that information campaigns can solve the problem. However, I think it is fair and fair to the industry to let them try out their actions first, before we possibly go to a mortgage scheme. I'm going into this debate with a positive basic attitude, but there's a series of questions that need to be solved, and as I think the Stortinget will see a great advantage of getting presented before taking a final position. If there's something that makes environmental protection a problem, it's if you jump on something for good purposes, and it turns out it's a lot more complicated than you thought. So let's get a real assessment from the Climate and Pollution Directorate, let's get a real deal from the Environment Ministry to the Stortinget. The Stortinget then has a good basis for making the right decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1980	In a number of cases now, we see that the government has promised to come to Stortinget, without it being implemented in concrete matters that should be presented. Things take time, cf. predators, energy messages, etc. The previous speakers were in on this with time. Then the minister says when it comes to information, that one gets to assess whether information is good enough. The question is then: How do manufacturers assess whether their alternatives are good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1985	There's only one scale on the seventh and last. It's whether they dramatically increase the collection rate. Here you can always discuss on the decimal, right, but we know that the collection rate is very low today. It needs to be increased dramatically. What we know a little bit less about is how all the little electronics get rid of, if people, for example. hide the mobile phones at home because they are afraid to give them away because there may be personal data and that in them, or if you just throw them in the trash because they are so small that they can go straight into a regular trash bin. These things we know less about. But what we know is that by today's date there is a very low collection rate on mobile phones and a good deal of other forms of small electronics. It has to be significantly raised, otherwise we have to consider other measures, and that is what we may be returning to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e1991	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3027]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2011	In reply to the representative Borghild Tenden, the Council of State said that all this leads to a ‘higher clarity’. I have a hope that this interpellation debate too can lead to greater clarity on waste management. So now it's ten years since the Stortinget last had a major review of the waste policy. It was in connection with St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000, the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, promoted by the central government in October 1999. The central government proposed new targets for waste and recovery. One of the main objectives was that the development of generated waste should be significantly lower than economic growth. Today's status is that the target has not been reached. According to environmental status.no, the total waste volume increased by 41 pst. from 1995 to 2009, while gross domestic product increased by 40 pst. Household waste has increased most. Every Northman throws 75 pst. more waste today than in 1995. Another main objective of the notification was that by 2010 the amount of waste destined for final treatment was to be 25 pst. of the total amount of waste. Fortunately, developments in this area have gone in the right direction. The recycling rate is currently 78 pst. and is expected to increase as a consequence of the landfill ban on biodegradable waste. The last thing the government has to pay tribute to. Waste and recycling has also been the subject of subsequent communications on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the country, by 2007, but the report has been limited. 2007 was also the last year of Stortinget’s report on the state of the State’s environment for treatment. The government has chosen to break this tradition with a big message about the state of the state of the environment every two years, without any other reason than that we have chosen not to do so, as the Council of State answered the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen on a written question for a while back. The cancellation of the Storing Message has been introduced as a new tradition under the red-green. The government seems pleased to discuss the major issues internally. By a majority of its backs and disagreements internally, especially in energy and environmental policy, it avoids the major debates here in the United Kingdom. I wonder if this is part of the major reform work in the field of environmental protection that SV believes Norway is undergoing during today's government. For March 3rd this year, Environment Minister Erik Solheim said the following to the NRK P2, Political Quarter: I am sure that when history is to be written about the red-green environmental policy, one will look back on it as a fantastic reform period in Norwegian environmental protection. I'm sure the Minister for the Environment is very satisfied with this quote, but I'm not quite sure if I share the Minister's perception of reality, because within the waste area there is probably a lack of reforms that characterize the situation. The Christian People's Party itself has promoted and participated in several proposals in the Storting on the need for a review of waste policy. Measures and instruments need to be reviewed and adjusted in order to move in the same direction. It has been our main intention behind our various proposals. The landfill ban and the incineration charge remain the only grips on the waste area under the red-green government. The incineration fee was only removed after the opposition and industry had combined it for several years. When we managed to get it removed, it was almost too late. Bad framework conditions had led many municipalities to conclude long-term contracts for the delivery of waste to Sweden. A comprehensive review of waste policy is needed — now more than ever before. I would like to take up in the following ten important reasons why we should have such an overall review. Point 1: The EU Waste Framework Directive requires all countries to draw up a waste plan. Norway has never previously drawn up a national waste plan, and this may be part of a comprehensive review of waste policy. Point 2: Today’s objectives and instruments have been introduced over a period of 30 years. A review has not been carried out to ensure the effective functioning of these objectives and related instruments and to ensure a comprehensive waste policy. Point 3: The main message in NOU 2010: 9, A Norway with no pollutants, is: ‘Environmental toxicity problems have changed in character over the past decades. In the past, reducing partly large industrial point emissions was a major challenge. Today these emissions are reduced and diffuse sources are of greater importance’. The pollutants are found in a number of products that end up as waste, both hazardous waste and ordinary waste. It will be a growing challenge for the waste industry to take care of and treat this waste properly. Point 4: Climate change — the government’s own picklist — highlights the importance of maximising the use of resources in waste. This applies especially to plastic and biodegradable waste. Nevertheless, waste disappears as a climate action for the use of waste resources. This is because waste arises in one sector and is used in another. Point 5: The EU has developed a study demonstrating that recycling of waste could make a significant contribution to ensuring industrial access to raw materials. If the waste industry is to achieve this, we need to look at the instruments and technology developments that are needed. Point 6: Furthermore, the development of a stronger market for waste as a raw material can lead to the flow of waste going to where demand is strongest, without taking into account socio-economic considerations. This is already the case in the energy use of waste, where the focus on renewable energy can lead all waste to incineration rather than material recovery. It is not certain that society is the best served to burn everything. Point 7: We know that the waste has become a cross-border commodity. It is therefore important, perhaps, to create common European instruments in this area. There should be an overall review. Point 8: Biodegradable waste, and in particular the food waste from households and businesses, is a commodity that is suitable for the production of biogas and for biofuels. Biogas can be used as a fuel and result in significant reductions in emissions from the transport sector. If we're going to get this done, we need a biogas strategy. Point 9: What do we really know about the waste of the future? Do we have the knowledge we need to deal with this? The last moment I want to mention in this series is producer responsibility. Producer responsibility was introduced in the mid-1990s and is currently in use for a number of waste types. This is an important tool to ensure better waste management and resource use. Many suggest that it is now time to evaluate and tighten up the scheme with a focus on future challenges. So, as I have now listed, waste affects all areas of society and affects all the inhabitants of the country. Waste is emotion, but it's also a big industry. The waste industry will face major challenges in the coming years. Then it is important that we have framework conditions that the industry can work after they are up-to-date, that they are forward-looking and that they work together. Personally, I am very concerned that more work is being done on the part of the authorities to prevent waste from occurring. Here we politicians play an important role, and I want to say that as politicians we have a duty to provide laws and regulations that can prevent us from leaving our land as a garbage dump for our descendants. The first step towards addressing this challenge here in Norway could be to have a comprehensive review of waste policy, which should be addressed here in the United Kingdom. Then we need an environmental protection minister who puts consumption and waste on the agenda, and who is not afraid to challenge individuals and the wider community as a whole on how our lifestyle and our habits play into the minds of our descendants. I'll be very happy if Erik Solheim is the Minister for the Environment who takes this challenge. I think we share the commitment, but I have not seen so far that the Minister for the Environment has shown this in concrete action. I am pleased to hear his articles, and I hope that we will get a higher clarity through his articles as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2063	Let me first thank the interpellant for a very good contribution, with many important views on waste policy. The short answer to the question asked is: Yes, the government has decided to provide a big message on waste policy, so that there is a basis for a broad discussion here. So the interpellant was also kind enough to bring up the theme of what the red-green government has generally implemented in environmental policy, and that is a lot. I'm not going to spend most of the time on it, but just a short memory that when I'm talking about a historical reform period, it's about things like the Nature Diversity Act, the most important environmental law in Norway in 100 years, the Marka Act, which was in the mill bag for 30 years until we picked it up again from there, and a dramatic protection, both forest protection and above all large natural areas in the form of national parks. Well there was a good deal under Børge Burnde, but it has also shot fantastic speed during this government. It's been 70 pst. increase in the budget for environmental protection, which has been used mainly for nature diversity. It's a much larger increase than what it is, for example. has been on the cultural budget under the Cultural Promise, it is possible that Trond Giske is more attractive to market, but it shows how important it is. Rainforest protection, to take the most important thing beyond Norway’s borders, I can also mention. All in all, this appears to be a very active reform period. When it comes to waste policy, I share the interpellant's view of its importance. It's an area where it's also made a lot of progress. Here it's not like everything's done under this government, here it was even done under previous governments. So it's an area where Norway has done a lot, and Norway appears in an international context as a country with a good waste policy. That is why the objections came when I said that I wanted a waste notification. Many people said, "No, there's so much done in this area," where's the new thing to do? But I see many new things that should also be done. We've had a huge growth in the amount of waste recovered. 20 years ago, most of it was disposed of as waste in landfills. Today, Norway recovers about 78 pst. Of the waste – in an international context a good result, but we must always strive to do it better. The control of hazardous waste has also improved significantly, but we have not succeeded, as the interpellant has done, with the essential thing of decoupling economic growth from the growth of the waste. Interestingly, we have succeeded in a good deal of other areas. We have had a huge economic growth in Norway in the last 20 years, while we have had a significant reduction in NOx emissions, a significant reduction in sulphur emissions and no corresponding growth in CO2 emissions. So there we've done with that disconnection, but we have a hard job to do with disconnecting economic growth from creating new waste. There we've come very, very short, unfortunately. In 2009, we saw correctly for the first time since the measurements started, that the amount of waste went down, but it's too early to celebrate that result. It could be that it was largely due to the economic crisis, so we have to look at it. At least it's a broken trend, and then we're going to hope that we can succeed in getting the amount of waste down. Interpellant is involved in the prevention of food waste. Positive steps are taken from several of the major market players themselves, the Norway Group and others. So Norway throws 300,000 tons of food every year, which could have been used. Much of it could have been eaten, and I have to agree with the interpellant that we need to look at some of our habits. It's e.g. absolutely unusual that we have almost all waited for the date stamping on a product to expire, it belongs in a fine, without making a reasonable assessment of whether this product is actually as good both one day, one week and in some cases for months and years after the date stamping has expired. Our grandparents would never have thought that something should be thrown just because it was a date stamping, without assessing whether it is actually perfectly healthy to eat it. But the food chains have begun to address this problem, and most of this waste will of course not be eaten, but it can be used in biogas and other sensible projects. We were in the last debate about the collection of small electronics, so I'm not going further on it now. Last November, we received the report ‘A Norway without environmental pollutants’ from the Environmental Tox Committee, which was led by Ketil Hylland, and with significant business input. That sample proposed a number of measures to stop emissions of pollutants by 2020. Well, it is a problem with the total amount of waste, but of course it is a particularly serious problem with serious pollutants. We have the ambition that Norway will be environmentally free by 2020 – of course, a big, hairy, difficult ambition to reach, but it is important to reach for it. We go further than anyone in trying to stop pollutants in Norway by banning some substances that have not even been banned by the EU, while at the same time working for strict regulation in the EU to regulate the European market and for global agreements against mercury and other hazardous pollutants. So I agree with the interpellant that we should look more at how we can stimulate re-use and recycling. The ideal use of waste is of course to reuse it again, and it was interesting to see that when we had the so-called Redesign project in Bergen last fall, the Torgallament was transformed into an arena for workshops, concerts, exhibitions and fashion shows to look at how to use clothes again, and the Salvation Army and others have demonstrated to the full how it is possible to reuse things, in a new way, without appearing to be old-fashioned, hopeless and unapproachable. So in that area, there is a lot more to do, and you can also stimulate manufacturers to make cell phones and cars, for example, in such a way that parts can be reused much more than today. The interpellant was also concerned with the question of biogas plants. I agree that we should use the energy of wet organic waste more. There are a good deal of positive examples – some municipalities in central Norway have merged about a large plant, Fredrikstad is a municipality of the past, Oslo has not yet recovered food waste, but has started with a first step, and will go to food waste in the second round. But one of the issues we need to look at in the waste notification is whether we have the right tools to do this in a good way. It is said, without me having checked it, that Sweden has come further. Well, if Sweden has come further in this area, let's learn from the Swedes and see what measures they have taken to get it done. Then in October last year we removed the incineration tax on waste, among others. to ensure that we do not have different framework conditions in Norway and Sweden. It was also something that several deposit representatives wanted. We want to take care of the waste ourselves, although we also want it to be possible to deal with it. At the same time, we need to look at how this change can affect material recovery in Norway and that there will not be a negative outcome of otherwise reasonable balancing of the differences between Norway and Sweden. I think that was part of the issues we get into the waste notification. But we're in the initial phase of making it. The government decided two to three weeks ago to start work on a waste notification, so of course this is a full opportunity for the Storting to make representations about everything you want to deal with in such a waste notification. I invite you to come up with that, and you'll get the questions well-examined for the waste notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2092	Thank you for a very good contribution from the Council of State. It is nice that the government has decided to promote a landfill notification on waste, and it is also nice to be informed that you can make recordings from the Storting regarding what such waste notification should contain. I gave a little kick to the council so that he could be allowed to boast of his revolution. But I have to make a comment: I have gone through and looked at the appropriations that Stortinget has given to CO2 management. So 7 out of 10 dollars have been withdrawn or converted into loans in relation to Mongstad. So what has been major budget headings has been withdrawn, either through regroupings in the revised budget or in other rounds where we allocate money here in the Stortinget. So over to waste. Governments say there's a lot of progress. Yes, there is great progress in this field within some areas. But what worries me the most is maybe we've had an increase of 75 pst. in households from 1995 until today. That's an increase we can't just sit still and watch. Firstly, we need to use our food in a sustainable way, so that it becomes as much waste as possible. And the waste used, we have to use in a good way – for energy or for another product. Then it is essential to meet the second objective that we agreed ten years ago – to disconnect increased waste from economic growth. The council says that unfortunately they have not succeeded in doing so, and that they will take a look at it. But the question is how we can look at it, because this is a challenge that affects our whole social development – how we can disconnect these two things. I am pleased with the signals that the Council of State gives in the case of food waste. But I want to give the Council a challenge in terms of preventing more waste: what can we do with packaging? We know that double and triple packaging is a challenge. But it should also be a requirement for us as consumers to say how much packaging we want on the different products. As regards Sweden’s progress in biogas, six departments are responsible here in Norway. My challenge to the Council of State is to review this and in the climate communication comes back with a biogas strategy, where six councils are the owners of this strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2108	Let me start by enjoying the interpellant with that 70 pst. The increase in environmental protection measures is an increase in the Ministry of the Environment’s budget – i.e. not CO2 measures in the budgets of other ministries, where there has probably been something up and down, as was said here. However, it is the measures that are being taken to preserve species in Norway, in terms of natural diversity, in national parks – in order to provide local good management of them, as we have talked about in previous debates. So this stands out very well from any comparison with the situation earlier – and even better, I think, against what will come after a red-green government if the Right and Advance Party come to power. In the case of waste problems: Biogas must, of course, become an essential theme in a waste notification. We're going to get back to that. I share the perception of this with double and triple packaging. I believe it is important that we maintain that there is a difference between waste that in itself is not dangerous, but that one wants to minimize, and the really dangerous waste. So doing something about the dangerous pollutants is a very central issue. The most difficult dilemma, which I honestly don't believe in the interpellant or I have a good answer to, lies at the intersection of good public schemes to try to reduce it through regulation and the change of attitude that is also there. There is no doubt that there has been a tremendous change of attitude between generations as a result of the flood. We can't easily adopt it away from it. My parental regeneration never threw food. It was viewed as a sin – perhaps in the world of Line Henriette Hemdal – and at least as absolutely wrong for others. It was simply something you didn't do. Then comes generations that haven't experienced scarcity. We don’t think about those who don’t have food — at least not in Norway — and it’s a matter of course to throw food simply because you don’t like it or because something else is better. And that's not how we can just adopt ourselves away from this world. We have what Norway we have, and I like to see how we can do something about this. We've got a too easy attitude to throw everything, but it's not just to say that we're going to do something about it. I would like to invite you to a debate on what could possibly be done to give us greater respect for the things we are surrounding – and how they can be used and reused.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2122	First, I want to thank the representative Hemdal for a very good interplay that puts the search light on an important issue in Norwegian policy. I'm also very happy that we get an opportunity here in Stortinget to discuss these important questions. A growth report on waste policy is important, correct and timely. I am very pleased that the Council of State today can come here and answer a unique yes to the inter-pellant’s questions – the government will deliver a waste report to the Stortinget. This will give us a good opportunity to discuss the long lines of waste policy and see waste policy in the broad context, as it deserves. Norway is a growing society. This means that we have also seen a large growth in the amount of waste we produce. We also see that there is a growth in the amount of waste recycled. Today, 78 psts are recovered. the waste we produce. But in Norway, we throw 300,000 tons of food that could have been eaten every year. It is positive, as the Council of State also comments, that industry has taken initiatives to reduce the amount of waste. Developments in the amount of waste in recent years can be described as follows: The amount of waste has grown dramatically since 1995, with over 40 pst. At the same time, we have had large growth in GDP in the same period, with 40 pst. The industry has reduced its waste by 5 pst. from 2008 to 2009. We have had strong growth in household waste throughout the period until 2008. The Ministry of the Environment has asked the Directorate for Climate and Pollution to assess the potential to reduce food waste production and, where appropriate, to propose measures and instruments. This is important grip. Waste policy is important. It is important to see waste policy as part of other policies, such as climate and energy policies – which the representative Hemdal has also been involved in. Waste represents a high potential for energy production both as heat and as power. We have to be able to use more of this resource at home and here to land. The theoretical energy potential of biogas resources from waste and by-products is approximately 6 TWh. This energy can be produced from different sources: Fertilizers represent the highest potential, in fact over 40 pst. Then industry comes with over 20 pst. and food waste from households, mass caterers and trade, which is also up to 20 pst. The total amount of waste collected in Norway is about 10.4 million tonnes. Of these, wet organic waste amounts to about 1,7 million tonnes. It is a significant part of the waste and can be used for several purposes. About 700,000 tonnes — now there are many numbers, but there are large numbers and it is important to obtain the figures — come from industry and service industries, and about. 1 million tonnes from households. So nationally, large amounts of waste go directly to combustion, while approximately. 1/3 goes to biological treatment, then mainly to composting. This implies that there is still a very high potential to use the energy of the remaining biological waste. Friday last week we could read about the biogas producer Ecopro in the Address Paper. The company was established in 2008 and is owned by over 50 municipalities in central Norway. I think Ecopro is a very good example of how municipalities can work together to produce values and societal products from waste. The company treats about 40 000 tonnes of food waste at source and sludge from the municipalities each year. A waste notification will give us an opportunity to discuss several important issues in waste policy. A sensible waste policy is a prerequisite for dealing with the economic growth that we have and that we still want to have in Norway. A challenge in today's waste policy is the so-called EE waste, which we have spent time here in the past. We use and throw a huge amount of electronic products in Norway. It is very important that we find a management of this waste that works. I believe that the Ministry of the Environment is doing well to find solutions to this, but there is still a good deal left for a solution – which has also been confirmed by the Council of State earlier today. I am pleased to receive the notification about waste. This interpellation has also shown that there is a strong political will across party boundaries to cooperate in waste policy. Then it becomes a paradox that our growth and prosperity, our method of use and throwing, is in stark contrast to the poor part of the world, where they don't get food. Can we get a waste notification and also be able to have a debate about seeing ourselves as consumers, it may also lead to something good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2169	For too long, waste has been considered as an environmental problem when it is equally viable. If we are to succeed in triggering the potential of the waste industry, the government has to adopt an overall approach that sees agricultural policy, industrial policy, charging policy, energy policy and environmental policy in the context. Waste affects all sectors and a notification of waste must therefore be cross-sectoral in approach and performance, and it must take into account that Norway is part of a Nordic, European and international waste market. Unfortunately, it is in the nature of politics that one hand does not always know what the other does. The debate on it after each special combustion charge is a good example. The idea of imposing such a charge based on the polluter-pays principle was good, but it appeared to be less good as the main input factor to increasingly state-subsidised district heating plants — waste — disappeared to Sweden. A large majority of the major waste contracts concluded in 2009 and 2010 went to Sweden. Back is Norwegian district heating systems, which in worst cases must fire with oil as the base load to maintain district heating production. Another example is the government's signal to introduce a uniform user charge for all fuels. Biogas is perhaps the most sustainable form of biofuels available today. The potential for biogas and bio-fertilisation based on wet organic waste, sewage sludge and manure from agriculture is high, but it will not be triggered unless agriculture, investors, producers and potential consumers have predictable and long-term framework conditions to deal with. In this sector, too, we must use the market in the service of the environment. It is worth producing and putting into practice environmentally friendly alternatives, such as: biogas. Until the government clears the framework conditions for this industry, only public operators will be willing to invest heavily in this market, but also the public sector will not be able to operate without profitability over time. As waste is gradually becoming an important input into energy production, it is essential that a waste notification also has an overall approach to energy production and consumption. Remote heating is well suited in dense cities with many commercial buildings and urban estates – as in Oslo – but in new residential areas built with ever more stringent energy efficiency requirements, which come from the EU, not from the government, the obligation to connect to district heating will be problematic. Remote heating is a competitor on the energy market, in line with electricity and other alternatives, and a waste notification must take into account. Right now the industry is struggling with an immature district heating market in Norway and a mature market in Sweden. Disbursed installations with high energy use may offer better conditions than new low-energy installations. In any case, it is necessary that the levels of charges are competitive and that the combustion levy should be removed last year. It wasn't a moment too soon. Some are concerned about the consequences of more favourable incineration of waste and thus less favourable recovery of waste. There is a concern that regulations must be met in the first place. Material recovery is important for a number of sectors in Norway — and crucial for sustainable waste management. Some years ahead, I think more and more municipalities and counties in Norway will realize that waste management on a large scale is not within their core competence, and I think we need to realise that the strength of politicians is in regulating, controlling and ordering services on behalf of the citizens, while building complex industrial waste management facilities is not or should be a core task. How will the waste market develop? Already today, we have a well-developed common waste market in the Nordic region, as I was in the past. Waste is exported between Norway and Sweden and between Sweden and Denmark. Large quantities of hazardous waste collected in Norway must be finalised in other countries. For the sake of industry, we need to facilitate the rapid processing of export permits. In the interests of the environment, we rely on good control procedures with which the waste ends. Here, there's room for improvement in both of these terms. Last year I was visiting Ragn-Sells, who exports large amounts of waste to Asia. It may sound environmentally hostile, but the option to export cardboard and paper to Asia is to export timber to Asia, and then burn our own paper waste. I think we can all agree that the first is better than the last. In the future, I think we will see that the global waste market will develop even more, as we import large quantities of goods from Asia, and that recyclable waste will be returned as a new input into the production of new goods in Asia. It will mature the industry and, as with most mature industries, it is likely to lead to consolidation in the industry. It doesn't have to be negative – on the contrary. It is high time that the government coordinated a common forward-looking waste policy that helps to trigger new green jobs, a better environment and exciting energy and fuel solutions. If we are to succeed as our neighbouring country in this sector, the government must coordinate and target policies across the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment. The future refuses to wait. It's just to get started. There is no reason, as the Council of State initially did, to boast of the government's waste policy, as they have basically achieved three things. It is a ban on landfills that came from the European Union, not from the government. They have achieved the elimination of a combustion tax that they should have removed a lot before, and they have achieved a loss of confidence in all those who want to invest in biofuels, so that there are now only public operators in this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2199	The waste policy was the last to be addressed in St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000. So it's been 11 years, and many have changed in all these years. Waste is more today considered as a resource, and it is. The amount of waste increases monthly year by year, and if there is one measure the government should receive credit for, it is the removal of the waste tax, which contributed to large exports of waste. Now it is also such that many contracts were concluded while the fee was still active. These will help ensure that exports will last for many years. This indicates that the fee has been removed too late. Biogas is also an important resource as a by-product. The Swedes have come a lot further than we have. Public transport using biogas is a good example of this. This shows that it is high time to address a new waste notification where measures and instruments are made visible with the aim of getting waste management where both resources are conserved and problem waste is treated in a good and timely manner. Thanks also to the interpellant for her contribution to this by taking up this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2212	I think it is interesting that the opposition even in a matter where the Council of State saw that those degrees met the interpellant, makes contributions that are mostly about the government and not about the matter, namely a waste notification. It seems almost as if some have been disappointed that on Friday the Council of State announced that the government would deliver a waste notification. That's a very good news. The representative Sund has stood for the numbers, so I'm just going to stick to a few brief comments, and there are a few examples of all the different policies you have to take into account when discussing waste policy. That's a very good point the representative Astrup had there. On a visit to Norway's geological survey in Trondheim last autumn, one of the things I was briefed on was the continued, frightening spread of PCBs in Norway, among others. in rubber on mats placed in kindergartens, playgrounds, etc. The background to this is precisely a good idea, that recycling and recycling of rubber is a good resource management, but so the harmful toxins that have been used in the past continue to spread in society. You have to see things in context. Another example from Trondheim is ReBygg, a fantastic institution led by the fireman Kenneth Urdshals, among others, who both the council and I visited in the election campaign. ReBygg combines the red and the green in the red-green project. ReBowl is good work practice, and it is an enterprise that recovers huge amounts of building material and furniture that would not otherwise be recovered. It's good not just for the people who work there, and for all the customers they have, who get hold of art works and thanks, etc. which they would never have got, but which they get just because it's used. But that's also good cultural policy, right? Some of the dedicated customers of ReBygg are people who restore protected and protected construction just because you recover. A third example I want to address is energy and agriculture and business policy. Anyone who has spoken to now has, as far as I am concerned, mentioned biogas. So will I. I suggest the foundation of Biogasens Friends on Stortinget, because I think that's what you need. I was at the biogas conference in Ørland a week ago, as the only big business representative. That was great stuff. I have gradually come up with the incredible potential of using waste that is initially responsible for high greenhouse gas emissions. Biogas is quite special, because it's the only energy source we know -- at least as I know, I'm not a physicist or an engineer, as if you burn it and generate energy from it, leads to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. So these are wastes that otherwise lead to large greenhouse gas emissions. You want to reduce emissions while getting more energy at the other end. In addition, a significant pollution problem can be solved, both because of excess fertiliser consumption and not least because of waste from the farming industry. Farming industry is responsible for more sewerage emissions than is done by people in Norway. If we follow Storting's intention from the committee comment under the wild chapter of this year's government budget, and come with clear expectations, for example. to the farming industry in Norway about increasing the use of closed farms, we have not only solved a major pollution problem, but we have gained access to a new energy source, which can provide new jobs in a number of coastal communities around the country, in conjunction with farmers and other entrepreneurs. I therefore have great expectations that the announced Single European Act will link a number of important policy areas, which see waste policy both in the context of climate policy, with industrial policy, with labour policy, and perhaps even cultural policy, in line with the example I mentioned. I am very pleased that the Council of State is ‘hands on’ — regret the expression, President — in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2229	Let me briefly repeat the basics of the Central Party's waste policy: we will facilitate products and consumption that do not lead to increased amounts of waste. At the same time, we are committed to increasing source sorting, increasing recycling rates and exploiting waste energy. The hazardous waste shall be safely handled. Last year, the SSB was able to demonstrate for the first time that the volumes of waste in households decreased since the start of the statistics in 1992. Each of them has an average waste of 14 kg less than in the previous year. It represents a reduction of 3 pst. Consumption also did not increase over the same period. First, there might be reason to wonder if it was the financial crisis that has the credit for the decline. At the same time, there is reason to point to the large quantities that are still being thrown, which many people here have been involved in. At the same time, it is also gratifying to see recovery rates increase. In order to reduce waste volumes, increase recovery rates and use the energy contained in residues, a number of different schemes and incentives are needed. As I discussed in the debate on mortgage schemes for environmentally hazardous waste, information to consumers is an important element. In addition, we need to work with producers to reduce waste volumes and increase recovery rates, for example. through the producer liability scheme. Waste can be recycled through material recovery or can be recovered as energy. The centre batch assumes that as much material is to be recovered as possible, while the residual waste is to be recovered as energy. The government has already done a lot in terms of incentives to use waste for district heating. The centre party is concerned that a wet organic waste sorting market is also being created. Waste and sewage can be used for biogas production, which can be used for e.g. electricity and heat production. The quantities of waste must be limited and the waste disposed of must be recovered sensibly. For the Centre Party, proper use of the waste can also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by replacing fossil energy use. That is why we in the Central Party are pleased that the government is going to present its own big message on waste policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2242	I thank you for a good debate. The representative Sund said that it is right to send a groceries report, it is important to send a groceries report, and it is time to send a groceries report. That's a good summary of what's been said by position and opposition. I have long thought that this is a matter that should unite us. The representative of Astrup was concerned that we must have a forward-looking waste policy. I fully agree with that. There are many areas where a forward-looking waste policy must focus on. It's both industry, agriculture, municipal policy, energy, environment and finance, just to name a few. I have mentioned earlier that we should perhaps have a public investigation in this area as the basis for a big message, because it is so broad. I just want to challenge the Council of States to at least bring it in the mind box. He should not answer now. This is an area that is large and wide, and I know it has been discussed in the past. The representative Serigstad Valen points out that we should have a foundation of Biogassen's Friends here at Stortinget. Then I would like to be the leader of this Friends' Association. I'm Fredrikstad-girl, and Frevar was first out, so I expect to be president of Biogasens Friends at Stortinget. From joke to seriousness: biogas is an important area. The council said he would come back to the biogas in the climate notification. I'm very excited about what you're going to get back to, because this is an area that concerns a lot of subjects. We can't get into the goal here if we don't see the different disciplines in the context. So to the last point: No, neither the state council nor I are able to solve the big challenge here in terms of the amount of waste versus economic development. There is a lot about attitude changes and creating new, good attitudes. I agree. Therefore, I react sharply when the Council of State says it is not so important to fold milk cartons. He's said that before. I think it's important to fold milk cartons. I think it's my job to teach my kids about it. I get annoyed every time I see them on the bench, but I think there's a bigger vision that we wash and fold milk cartons. I'm also a little annoyed when the council says that it's not so important what you drive to the polling room with, only you vote right. I also disagree with that, because I think you have to drive environmentally friendly also to the polling room. Waste Norway has asked for financial support for an awareness campaign. It was a matter which was raised in the context of the budget and in consultations. I had hoped that the Council of State in next year's budget could see if there was a way to go to include them in the process of changing attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2264	There has been a debate with broad consensus, and I am sure that the interpellant agrees with me also when I say that it is far, far better to drive even the largest SUV to the polling room and vote on the Christian People's Party than to jog or bike to the polling room and vote on the Progress Party. If the environment is crucial, then the Christian People's Party is far to be preferred, even in the most environmentally damaging way – even the helicopter to the polling room will probably be better in this case. That being said, with the exception of a few attempts by a few of the representatives to squeeze juice out of old lemons, this has been a very constructive debate. It was a very constructive post from the interpellant, and it was a lot of other good contributions. I think the most important thing I'm going to do now is to make sure that this debate is thoroughly read in the Ministry of the Environment, so that every input that's made here is captured. But this isn't the end of it. It is a full opportunity for large-scale representatives in different formats – often directly by telephone and in other ways – to address questions that you think are important to bring up. In the case of a public sample: a public sample has the impression that it will take much longer, so at least it is among the themes that are worth considering. Another option is to ensure that work on a roll-out message is not a closed process in our ministry, but through open hearings or other meetings where dialogue is held with the main players in the industries and with others who have important input into this area, so that we can both contribute to public debate along the way and get the best possible input. Then I finally find out that Biogassen's friends at Stortinget seem to be being formed, with Line Henriette Hämdal as the leader and Snorre Serigstad Valen as the secretary, and there will certainly be an excellent club!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2275	Case No. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2281	We're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2289	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to present a case to the Grand Duchy on the legal certainty of the farming industry, including a proposal to amend the reaction provisions of the Aquaculture Act, in order to improve the legal certainty of the farming industry and to eliminate the legal ambiguity prevailing.’ Alternatively, between the proposal and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2302	During the debate Alf Egil Holmelid, on behalf of the majority of the Committee, proposed that the recommendation be amended to read ‘to be annexed to the minutes’. The left has notified that they will support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2321	During the debate, Mr Andersen Eide put forward the proposals. 1-5 on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for binding environmental measures that significantly improve the state of the environment in the farming industry by 2013. The proposals must involve quantitative requirements in terms of genetic impact and escape, disease, pollution and emissions.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for penalties to be applied to the farming industry if environmental protection requirements have not been met by 2013.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the transition to an environmentally sustainable farming industry with closed sea installations, alternative measures to achieve an equivalent level of safety by 2020.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a fund for research and development in the breeding industry, with particular emphasis on the development of technologies for closed sea installations or activities with an equivalent level of safety.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to impose a levy on the farming industry in order to contribute to the financing of the development of technologies for closed sea installations or activities with an equivalent level of safety.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2357	The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2406	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary changes to the Tax Act and the Tax Decision of the Storting, so as to allow the law to reduce electricity tax and VAT on electricity in periods of exceptionally high electricity prices.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2419	The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2436	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marianne Marthinsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2-7, from Henning Skumsvoll on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the overall responsibility for the Planning and Building Act is added to one department which will have an overall approach to the aims of the law, so that many different societal considerations are well weighed against each other. The majority believe this should be done by bringing together the administration of the entire Planning and Construction Procedures Act of 27 June 2008 at the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs.’ [[Law on plans and buildings]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that local self-government is strengthened in land matters, that the provisions on national expectations for regional and municipal planning, state planning guidelines and state planning provisions are removed, that the possibility of promoting opposition is removed only from the discretion of the State, and that State authorities are only allowed to review exemptions where it can be demonstrated that the exemption from the construction ban will clearly go beyond the rights of all civil servants in the area.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the concept of ‘non-interventional natural areas’ is no longer given weight in dealing with land-related matters in state administrative bodies.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘During 2011, the Government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting to amend the tasks of the County where these are restricted to legal review only in order to safeguard the rights of individuals with regard to the municipal administration and to comply with adopted laws.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘During 2011, the government is asked to promote a case for the Storting to transfer the administrative authority over areas protected by the Nature Diversity Act to the municipalities concerned. It is assumed that Norway’s national objectives and obligations regarding the conservation of diversity of species are established.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2506	Proposals Nos. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal for Decisions I to III, which is in its form as requests to the Government, will be put on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting. There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the Act amending Law 27 June 2008 No 71 on planning and processing of construction I Law No. 27 June 2008 71 on planning and processing of construction works is amended as follows: the fifth paragraph of Sections 1 to 8 is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2565	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Document 8:3 LS representative proposal by the deposit representatives Erna Solberg, Nikolai Astrup, Gunnar Gundersen, Svein Harberg, Trond Helleland, Frank Bakke Jensen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Anders B. Werp, Lars Bjarne Tvete and Bjørn Lødemel on strengthening local democracy and ownership in environmental and land management. [[2010-2011]] Changes to the Planning and Building Act – not acceptable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2584	During the debate Line Henriette Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the introduction of labelling and mortgage schemes for products classified as hazardous waste in order to ensure collection, proper handling and reuse. The scheme may start with a mortgage arrangement for small electrical equipment and subsequently be developed into several types of goods and packaging, for example by model of the glass return system.» The left has announced support for the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2609	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-21.ana.ud1234e2658	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
