ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e94	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16.00 until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e108	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from the Minister of Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Sven Roald Hansen, then the representative of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e121	President, that should be the opposite – Ine M. Eriksen Soreide first.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e126	If the representative so wishes, and everyone agrees on it, then it is first the representative ine M. Eriksen Soreide who will have the floor, then the representative in Svein Roald Hansen. This is probably because the representative Ine M. Eriksen Soreide is the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e129	That's right, President. First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an interesting presentation, and let me begin where the Minister of Foreign Affairs has relaxed. In the Middle East and North Africa, both in the region and its neighbouring countries in Europe, we have everything to gain from a more stable, democratic and economically successful Middle East. We have seen the fall of dictatorships, but we have continued to see democracies rise. We must support the ambition and the hope that the upheavals we are now seeing will result in genuine governments. In order to succeed, the population must own the process and own the institutions that grow out of the process. Democracy must grow and be created from below in the same way as the rebellion. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was in Cairo for talks, among others. representatives of the United Nations system, for new parties formed, for the youth movement, with the Secretary-General of the Arab League, Amr Moussa, and with the Christian minority in the Coptic Church. There are many challenges in Egypt. Perhaps, in particular, economic downturn is a very important and limiting factor. In recent times, we have also seen a clear increase in sectarian violence. But there is also great optimism and strong willingness to pave the way for democracy. The Egyptians are concerned that the State should be civil and not religious. The Egyptian sea holds Turkey and other democracies as a model. They don't look at Iran. They want to see different democracies to pick the best from them and put it together for their own. There are some strong discussions about the planned parliamentary elections in September and the subsequent presidential elections two months later. Is it too early? Several of the newly started parties we met were just a few weeks old and worried about the possibility of organizing well enough to form a political platform and participate in elections. Why is Egypt so important? Every third Arab is an Egyptian, and what is happening in Egypt is undoubtedly of great importance to what is happening in the region. It is not difficult to join the Foreign Minister’s analysis of the importance of the EU’s role as a peace-building and stabilising force in the region. The question is also what Norway can contribute to supporting these democratic processes. An initiative recently launched by Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Füle was at least perceived by some as a desire to extend the EEA Agreement to countries such as Tunisia and Egypt. It might have been interesting to hear how the Minister for Foreign Affairs is dealing with this initiative. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also took up the great influx we are now looking at Europe from North Africa. He mentioned in particular that some 34 000 people have come to Europe and that many may need international protection. He also said that Norway will receive a total of 340 quota refugees from the area, 250 of which represent an unusually increased quota. For several years, the right has proposed to permanently increase the quota by 500, and I ask the Foreign Minister to consider whether, in this extraordinary situation we are now in, there could be room for a slightly increased quota. In the extension of this discussion, we now also see that there has been a strong increase in the debate on Schengen among EU countries. As a result of an agreement between the government parties and the Danish People's Party, Denmark has reintroduced a reinforced customs control at the border. In the Wednesday Question Time, Minister of Justice Knut Storberget expressed some support for the Danish scheme, but the European Commission has criticised it for breaking the Schengen acquis. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain in more detail the position Norway will take in discussions on any changes to the Schengen acquis? There is also a strong debate in the EU now on the extension of Schengen to Bulgaria and Romania. This was also the theme of a meeting I had with my colleague as head of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the Romanian Senate. It is not an uncomplicated matter, and it is a matter that affects Norway as a Schengen country. I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say something about the position of Norway in relation to these discussions on Romania and Bulgaria. I noted with interest the Minister of Foreign Affairs' presentation of the third EU Postal Directive and the government's decision to oppose the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement. I am very pleased, and I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs for saying so clearly in his statement that he will not pre-empt the outcome of the discussions with the European Union on this directive. This is in line with our commitments under the EEA Agreement and in the opinion of the Right, the only proper approach to the matter. Yesterday, at a meeting in Brussels, the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented the government's position. To the evening post, he said: ‘The EU contribution was filled with a very strong recognition of the EEA Agreement. It underlined the functioning of the EEA Agreement. They are engaged in the maintenance and continuation of the agreement.’;» This is precisely an emphasis on the problem of the use of the right of reservation. In particular, following the review of the special agreements with Switzerland, as well as the review that is now taking place throughout the EEA Agreement, the EU is increasingly emphasising a homogenous understanding of the agreement. To put it another way: the space for picking directives à la carte, especially for a foreign country, is very small, and it is still shrinking. The Postal Directive is considered to be one of the Directives at the heart of the EEA Agreement. The Directive also provides for reciprocity. This means that a country that liberalises can exclude a country that does not liberalize. Already today, the Post Norway sees the Nordic as its home market. It may come to an abrupt end if Norway exercises the right of reservation against the Directive. To the right, it is quite incomprehensible that, in this situation, one chooses to gamble on the reactions of the EU side and the consequences it may have for Norway by threatening the use of the right of reservation on a directive that understands the major problems. In addition, we have several problematic directives ahead of us, which we are discussing with the European Union side to make adjustments. The Banking Deposit Guarantee Directive is the closest thing to mention here. It is no secret that the Right, like both the Left and the Advance Party, supports post-liberalisation. However, we have noticed that the government clearly believes that the inclusion of the postal directive would be contrary to the basic Norwegian interests. In its presentation, the Minister of Foreign Affairs specifically mentions the frequent carryover of postal and unitary portfolios. However, the wording of the Postal Directive states that there should be postal transport at least five days a week. The Directive also opens up the continued use of unit portfolios in individual letters, newspapers and books. Yes, the Directive obliges Member States to have universal service for all customers in respect of the collection and delivery of mail, at least five days a week at affordable prices throughout the territory. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: What concrete elements of the directive is the government concerned about, and what points of the directive will it therefore seek to negotiate in the discussions that will now begin with the EU? I also thank the Minister for spending some of his time in his presentation briefing the Storting on ongoing discussions and recently presented proposals, such as the Resource Efficiency Roadmap and the Internal Market Action Plan. A continuing dominant agenda item is also the management of the debt crisis in some euro area countries. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs points out, the picture is now slightly less black than before. Sweden and Germany are once again experiencing good economic growth, while Spain’s debt problems seem to be more manageable than what was first feared. However, Greece, Ireland and Portugal in particular still appear to be very vulnerable. I would like to appreciate the Foreign Minister's assessment of the solutions that are now emerging, in particular for dealing with Greece's high debt burden. The third Postal Directive was adopted in 2008. While we are talking about the reservation of this Directive, new legislation is constantly being adopted in the EU. Last week, the Right raised a number of questions in the Questionnaire to various Councils about ongoing debates in the EU system. It is important because a genuine debate on the European Union must be conducted at the same time by everyone. It requires that both the Storing and the Government engage in the public debate on things going on in the EU today and in the future. Let me then conclude with deserved praise to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his efforts at the Ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in Greenland. We are pleased that a permanent secretariat for the Arctic Council is now in place. It shall be located in Norway, in Tromsø. An agreement on search and rescue has also been signed in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e176	I would like to join the committee leader in the efforts to get the permanent secretariat of the Arctic Council. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a broad presentation, which covered both the major upheavals we are experiencing in Europe's neighbouring countries in North Africa and in the Middle East, the severe economic challenges in many European countries that have created the aftermath of the financial crisis, and individual issues that create debate in our relationship with the European Union. Seeing these things in context can be a useful reminder of how privileged we are, here we are at the edge of a troubled continent, with our backs to the Arctic, but still on the green branch. This weekend, thousands of Spanish youth camped in Madrid in protest against the country’s setting European youth unemployment record. In Norway, young people refuse to take summer jobs, and in the weekend, footballers strike in protest against lack of freedom of choice in football boots. In the Nordic region, we have recently made a declaration of solidarity that formalises the responsibility we feel for each other. In the Western Balkans, they struggle with themselves and each other. Nevertheless, we see that the objective of EU membership remains a driving force for necessary reforms in economic and judicial governance and in overcoming old contradictions between neighbours. I would like to focus on three areas of the presentation concerned: the EEA reviews, the contribution of the Storting to an active European debate and the postal directive. It is not just a mantra, but a reality that the EEA Agreement has served both us and the EU well since 1994. It's important to remember why. The purpose of the Agreement is to harmonise the legislation of Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein with the legislation of the 27 Member States of the EU, in order to provide legal certainty and predictability for businesses and residents. In other words, the EEA Agreement has largely met the needs of Norwegian industry for good competitive conditions on the market that buys three quarters of all Norwegian exports. With the purchase, so to speak, the Nordics have been given the opportunity to work and settle in our 29 neighbouring European countries and to be treated as their own inhabitants, with the security it creates. Together with the Schengen Agreements and participation in a wide range of cooperation programmes, we have been so deeply integrated into EU cooperation over these 17 years that we are stronger integrated than the UK Member State. The EEA Agreement has proved to be sufficiently robust and flexible to capture the extensive development, depression and expansion that EU cooperation has undergone during those years. The EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement cover much more extensive cooperation today than when they were negotiated and concluded. At the same time, important changes have taken place in the institutional framework of EU cooperation that also affect us. That's why the review we're now facing is important. In the EFTA-EU Joint Parliamentary Committee, we have also put this on the agenda. During our meeting at Svalbard before Easter we started work and travelled, among other things. the issues raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his presentation. The institutional framework of the agreement should be further developed in the light of the fact that the EU Parliament has now been given participation in almost all areas. Parliament is a decision-making body within the EEA Agreement and does not give EFTA countries any formal relationship. We're referred to the lobbyists' ranks. It is not satisfactory for a country that is actually as integrated in cooperation as the Member States. The Council of the European Union has initiated a separate review of the agreement, from an EU point of view. The representative of the Commission attending the meetings of the Joint Parliamentary Committee underlines strongly that no surprising conclusions differing from the assurances of the annual reports that the EEA Agreement is working well. In other words, those who still have political ambitions to replace the EEA Agreement with anything other than full membership will be disappointed if they expect conclusions from the review of the EEA Agreement that will strengthen their case, at least if they are looking for factual arguments. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also raised the question of the integration of Andorra, San Marino and Monaco into the internal market. There are clearly some in the EU system who see the EEA as the natural door. I would like to support the Minister of Foreign Affairs that our front door is not suitable. This week probably comes the very first fresh proposals for new directives from the European Commission to the Grand Duchy, sent by the EFTA Secretariat in Brussels. We are thus taking a new step in Stortinget's work on a more active European policy. Our staff in Brussels are in place. And now, when we get the proposals for new directives on the committee table, when they come from the Commission, we – as also the committee leader pointed out – have far better opportunity to participate in the debate while it is going on in our neighbouring countries and in the EU bodies, and not only two to three years later, when they are adopted and to be implemented in the EEA. There are two important perspectives to this. We are given greater opportunity to influence the outcome of matters through debate and contact with colleagues in neighbouring countries and in the European Parliament, as we have done during the work of the European Parliament on the Consumer Directive. And we are better able to bring the European dimension closer into the political debate here at home, both on social development and on important issues. It is clear that the need for and the desirability of cross-border cooperation is increasingly being addressed in societal areas. Environmental and climate policy is an obvious example for everyone. But we also see it in areas such as healthcare, where the development of treatment options and skills requirements can even detonate a national framework. The same thing makes people's own expectations of being taken care of, even far from home, if disease strikes. The new Health Directive now coming creates greater safety and greater rights for patients. These dimensions must be brought more strongly into the debate on the solutions of the future if the debate is to be real, if it is to embrace both the opportunities and obligations that development itself creates, but which also involve our agreements. The Minister of Foreign Affairs announced in the statement that the government believes there are compelling arguments to oppose the inclusion of the third postal directive in the EEA Agreement. And the Stortinget debated the possible consequences of this in an interpellation debate on Friday. It will be the first time that Norway has initiated the procedures under Article 102 of the EEA Agreement, but they have been triggered in the past, inter alia. of Iceland. As explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the government's reason lies in the fear that competition can further weaken the Post Office's revenues by letter of less than 50 grams and thus the possibility of maintaining a good nationwide offer of unit sport. However, an analysis carried out by the Ministry of Transport shows that it is primarily the transition to e-mail that leads to lower revenue for the Post. If this transition continues at the same pace over the next ten years as it is now, the Post Office's revenues will be reduced by about two billion. kr per year. It will require adjustments on the expenditure side, or more money on the government budget in the form of payments for unprofitable services, completely independent of the EU Directive. The same analysis says that it is unlikely that anyone will try to establish alternatives to the Post in Norway for letters under 50 grams — simply because the market is too small, it falls, profitability is too poor, and the Post is too good. The entry Norway has established itself with CityMail in Stockholm, which has resulted in losses in the tens of millions of people, and has withdrawn from a similar experiment in Copenhagen. However, there are no provisions in the Directive itself that prevent the values we want to protect, such as unit sport, cross-subsidies and distribution as often as we wish. The directive opens up the possibility to impose requirements on concessions that will significantly limit the possibility – and I believe the desire – of creating an alternative that only aims at foaming the cream in the central strata, as the Post Norway has done in Sweden. I point out this because it is important that the negotiations we are now entering into with the EU be conducted on a realistic and factual basis, and not least under the obligation imposed on us by the EEA Agreement, namely to seek solutions that both parties can accept. There were some wordings in Friday's debate that lay a little outside of such a framework, to say it cautiously. But above all, it's important and reasonable that we in this room don't fool ourselves into a notion that only we don't open up to more actors who can distribute our letters under 50 grams, so the Post's future challenges on the income side are solved. They're not. To this is the transition to e-mail, SMS and MMS too dynamic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e220	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation, which is coming in a challenging time. Not least, parts of our EEA cooperation are being challenged. I will be allowed to come back to this. But first, like the two speakers before me, I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on a good political craftsmanship in locating the Arctic Council Secretariat to Tromsø. Even more important than localisation was the agreement at the Arctic Council of Ministers to set up a permanent secretariat, thus signaling that the Arctic Council has come to be. But we are sure that Tromsø is the right place for such a secretariat, and that this supports well under the activity already taking place in the city. For Norwegian Arctic interests, the choice of Tromsø is not particularly important, but for Arctic cooperation as such, we believe that the choice of Tromsø is a good contribution. The agreement relating to search and rescue in the Arctic, which was signed in Nuuk, is groundbreaking, but must now be filled in with content. The challenges are also in line, for example: as regards oil-silver issues in the Arctic, infrastructure for future shipping, up-to-date mapping, etc. It is important that the Arctic Council has the power to take the necessary decisions that keep pace with the activity already at full speed into the Arctic Ocean. Lack of definitive solution to the observer question shows that it is still a long way to go before the Arctic Council becomes a sufficiently effective tool. However, the will seems to be great, and the needs will hopefully contribute to the intensification of cooperation in the future. The right of reservation in the EEA Agreement is not just a theoretical instrument, but one that can be used when important national interests are at stake. Whether the third postal directive, which deals with items under 50 grams, is an important national interest, can be discussed. We believe this directive is good and want to incorporate it into the EEA Agreement, and believe it serves Norwegian interests. The Progress Party was among those who had been silenced by the Workers' Party during the debate on the Data Storage Directive. The representative, Laila Gustavsen, said that: ‘there must be very special national considerations that Norway can rely on for the veto right in the EEA Agreement to be effectively applied’. The representative was obviously of the opinion that these considerations were not present in the case of the Data Storage Directive. It would have been interesting to hear from the Workers' Party why the third postal directive is to be regarded as a particular national consideration, whereas such an assessment could not be used on the Data Storage Directive. The working party has obviously chosen to keep the list of use of the right of reservation low and, therefore, conflicts may occur in a rapid order. In relation to the most likely process under Article 102, on the basis of reservations for the third postal directive, the Minister of Foreign Affairs describes this as a detailed process, in which there is almost a proper regulatory framework to deal with. True, there are rules, but it is well in place to describe this as a broken ground, and an exercise where there is not much experience and competence. The presentation can almost be read as if this is not particularly dramatic, but it is well that the government's behaviour to protect postal items below 50 grams is reasonable risk-benefit. Recent debates on both the Data Storage Directive and the Postal Directive show that an increasing number of Norwegian politicians and parties have an active relationship to use the entire register of instruments in the EEA Agreement. It is interesting in a perspective where many believe that the EEA has expired and needs to be replaced by something else. We believe that the EEA has served Norway well and believe that the agreement can still safeguard Norwegian interests in the future, but that does not mean that we want a static approach to the agreement. We have argued in the past to look at upgrading the legal basis of the agreement, and believe it is becoming more and more topical. Not least now that the Treaty of Lisbon is in place, the need for a review seems to be present. We now look forward to both the Norwegian evaluation and the evaluation carried out on the EU side. A few years ago, it was almost sinful to talk about changing the EEA Agreement. The existing was not to be challenged. More and more people now understand that it may be right to look at the agreement, not least in the light of changes on the EU side. Changes in the EU comitology system challenge Norway’s influence. That's pointed out in the statement that about 80 pst. EEA-relevant legislation is adopted in a committee procedure. Although Norway has the right to participate as observers, there are challenges associated with this. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is talking about the government 'has sought' to safeguard Norwegian interests and that we have a 'good hope' of continuing our rights. A use of words that is so careful shows that we are in a very uncertain area, where the Norwegian influence of the future seems to be highly uncertain. In view of this, I would like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether he sees the need to sharpen the areas we regard as important for Norway to have influence over. Can we imagine that we're defining e.g. Energy, the environment and transport as areas of national importance, and where we give greater priority to where we believe it is essential that Norway's voice be respected? Experience shows that Norway’s influence is greatest in those areas where we are considered to be far-reaching, and that we are thus considered useful by the other EU countries. With a larger EU, and an EU that is constantly taking on new rules and new harmonisation, it is in practice an almost inconvenient task to follow all processes. Moreover, the change in comitology is one important reason to look at upgrading the EEA Agreement as a whole. The way in which the EU behaves as a foreign policy actor, or acts on financial markets, is not an area in which Norway has a particular opportunity to influence. But we want to be impressed by what is happening, and close and close contact with the EU is so important. However, the challenges facing the EU both within and outside its borders call into question whether the EU is today a strong political force in the face of crises. The words in opinions and actions do not strengthen the EU as an actor. There is little doubt that a single EU will be a global power factor in almost all areas. The EU has little power to exploit this potential. Finally, they were able to impose sanctions on Syria, even though it was a long way off. Even more serious for the EU is the uncertainty that now characterises the handling of Greece. The consequences can be far-reaching, not just for the euro countries, but for the entire world economy. The lack of assumptions for the launch of the whole euro project is made visible in this crisis. This statement reflects the fact that in several areas there can be turbulence in EEA cooperation. This requires considerable activity from the government, but also that the Stortinget be kept constantly informed of developments. We expect the government to keep all parties up to date. As far as the Postal Directive is concerned, the ball is so absolute in the hands of the government, but generally in terms of defence of the EEA Agreement and safeguarding Norwegian interests, we would point out that the Stortinget can play a role both in relation to the European Parliament and also in relation to the national parliaments. The main battle will not be played here, but important premises for the negotiations to take place in relation to individual directives, and not least in relation to the whole EEA Agreement, will be strongly influenced by European parliamentarians. A close dialogue between the government and the government is then required to promote common Norwegian positions and interests. With this, I am not saying that we want to fight for the government's position on the postal directive, but rather to ensure that the EEA agreement remains as unaffected as possible, we have a common interest. Not least when we get there that we are talking about a possible upgrade of the EEA, it is a challenge that political Norway must seek to lift as much together as possible. Lack of recognition of the parliamentary dimension would be a weakening of Norwegian opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e251	I cannot be the first to congratulate the permanent secretariat of the Arctic Council on its arrival in Norway. But between Arctic cooperation, Asian growth and democratisation in the Middle East, I have to start with what I think can be a quite dramatic change in society in Europe, which we are now up in the economic model and the economic situation. Many EU countries now have an unemployment rate of around 10pst. or significantly more — in some countries extremely much more — with a youth unemployment rate at the level that it is normal for young people with good education not to have a regular job. At the same time, it seems more and more that in many countries it has been a matter of political commitment to well-being and the weakening of social security is a necessary part of the solution. The EU has met the challenges of some sensible things, such as the creation of a new supervisory structure and the introduction of greater budgetary transparency between Member States, but also with important reasons to problematise, in the combination of the EU’s adoption and the EU’s individual countries. As part of the crisis policy, a competitiveness pact, a competition pact, also known as Euro Pluss, has now been established. Retirement age should be increased, tax levels coordinated, so-called irresponsible public expenditure gone, tariff agreements more strictly governed politically. Public sector wages and salaries should support, as it is called, competitive opportunities in the private sector. EU rules on the amount of annual deficits and government debt shall be legalised in all EU countries. In combination, we now see how a strong right-hand side in the EU and a strong right-hand side in most EU countries will spare themselves out of the financial crisis instead of investing out of it. Wage cuts lower demand and reduce growth in many countries. Missing investment in knowledge, in work, in infrastructure is helping to curb growth, and countries are being forced to cut schemes that are just about to generate growth. Spain has now, for example: reduce the recent increase in maternity leave, which would increase employment and, not least, raise the birth rate, with which Spain and other European countries are now struggling and which will hamper growth and innovation in the future. Then we also see the same in the debate on the euro. The currency is common, but not the economies, and countries with so many inequalities in competitiveness, industrial structure, tax systems, etc. does not naturally belong together in a single currency. While a possible solution is that one has freedom of action to pursue a different monetary policy in different economies, there are now indications that a different monetary policy with the euro should be topped by a common fiscal policy, which can rent towards a race at the bottom of taxes, at well-being, at the wage level in Europe. That debate must take place on the left side of Norway and Europe and Norway as a country, because it is the great European economic debate that I believe will shape the years to come. So I would like to thank you for a good deal and a thorough review of various EEA issues. I think he shows first and foremost that we are getting a demystation of the EEA agreement now. We can discuss directives as they are, simply political matters where there will be different views among the parties in Norway. Overall, I agree with the description of the Postal Directive: ‘Overall, the Government considers that there are serious arguments that Norway is opposed to incorporating the Directive into the EEA Agreement.’ I thought the Foreign Minister was going through the procedures of Article 202 in a good way, summarised: ‘Norway will follow the procedures set out in the EEA Agreement relating to reservation in the course of further follow-up to this case.’; Then it will meet challenges. The challenges we'll have to deal with as they come. The goal of the government is ready. Then, in SV, we also wholeheartedly support the government's work when it applies, for example, to alcohol advertising and the Inline Guarantee Scheme. A few words on the agency directive at the end. It has both good and bad sides. It is good that, in principle, hired workers should have the same pay and employment as they permanently add. We can decide that in the Storting any time we want. The problem is that this will lead to more frequent hiring and hiring of workers than today. Both the Labour Environment Act and the Norwegian collective agreements impose restrictions on it. The Directive will allow the EFTA Court to decide on the limitations of the labour-environment law in the case of tenants, but may also be justified in a reunification, for example. test a collective agreement demarcating tenants for the purposes of EU law. It's problematic, and it's important that we follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e283	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his presentation. Many of our friends in Europe are in a very difficult time. How the crisis is resolved will have a bearing on whether people have jobs in the years to come, on how to reduce the violent youth unemployment we see, on whether family-careers should have proper pay and working conditions, so that the family can manage and the tax capacity in Europe is maintained, on whether the public in the future should be robust enough to provide good services, so that support for the welfare society remains there, and on whether future pensioners in Europe can face old age safely. There are dramatic times with our European friends. The Euro Pluss Pact can be hard for many ordinary employees. The Pact is a step closer to a fully integrated Union. The main driving force is Germany, which seems to be pushing through a system that best suits its export-driven economy. There will not be a lot of national governments left to coordinate pension, wage and tax policies. The EU has realised that it is not possible to have an economic union without the Union being also political. They need tools, they need political governance to face the crisis they're in. And the regulated financial sector created the crisis. Now ordinary people have to pay for it. Wages are greatly reduced in many countries, the worst in Eastern Europe. Like the United States, Europe is now getting a share of people working from morning to evening, but still does not have enough money to create a worthwhile economic life for its family. We get a working poverty in Europe, and we get more differences between people. From an allocation point of view, the introduction of the euro may prove to be an accident. In the Centre Party, we have always believed that both the EU and the EEA Agreement contribute to increased disparities and that the EEA Agreement leads to more market management and legalisation and less popular governance. The third EU Postal Directive is an attempt to introduce market management in a well-functioning area in Norway with which people are satisfied. We have a good and solid mail delivery in our long-range country. We have six days and equal postage. The profits we have from mail delivery in Oslo help you to have good mail delivery even in places where it's not so profitable today. There would be no political will in Stortinget to reform this system if the proposal had not come from the EU system. What has been so good this winter is that we have had a new maturity in the Norwegian EU and EEA debates. We have to start discussing the content of the proposals, not just the sender. We have come up from the trenches that were there in 1993, and this is part of the big fight – everything is part of the big fight. Now we dare to ask: what are Norwegian interests? Are we for, or are we against? We first saw it here in the Stortinget with the Data Storage Directive, where there was an active and lively debate, and there were strong speakers like Michael Tetzschner, Nikolai Astrup and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, who are active yes-representatives, among those who made clear no-arguments that we should not incorporate the Data Storage Directive into Norwegian law. It was a great victory for many of us that we finally began to get that kind of debate. The following week there was a debate that we have also seen here today, where Svein Roald Hansen was clearly on the side of the losing party, while others in the Workers' Party were on the winning side and said they wanted to use the right to reserve. And they discussed the content. One can then agree or disagree with whether one wishes to liberalise the postal market in Norway, but at least in two of the major yes-parties in Norway they have finally had the freedom and freeness to dry out discussing Norwegian positions independently of the sender. What I think has been most strange in the post directive debate, and as I have seen here today, is that some of the most thoughtful yes-people are the ones who fear the EU the most. Jan Tore Sanner has made it clear that the whole EEA Agreement is being jeopardized by the use of the right to reserve. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, has today also given the impression that the EU is an irrational actor who is going to launch really dramatic countermeasures because we are using a negotiated right. It's a little strange that we, as no-people, have more faith in the EU as a rational actor than the yes side, and that especially the Right has chosen to spend so much time spreading horror propaganda. The EEA agreement had never received a majority in the Stortinget had no right of reservation. It was a premise to get a three-quarters majority to introduce the EEA Agreement into Norwegian law. It was promised by then Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland that it would be a right to use. Now the government has chosen to use it, start a process. It is historic, and I am glad that we finally have a debate in Norway where we put Norwegian interests first.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e309	I guess it's not particularly historic that we have a debate in Norway where we put Norwegian interests first. We do that all the time. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and interesting presentation in a turbulent time for Europe, starting from much of the same as previous speakers. The European Union is in a deep crisis, economic and political. Performance projects such as the euro and Schengen are being challenged. In this country, there is now a majority of opinion polls in all parties against EU membership. I share the foreign minister's concern about the high unemployment rate in euro countries in crisis. Take Ireland: The country came under the name The Celtic tiger early in the 1990s because of its dynamic economy. Ireland had a verifiable debt, which was roughly at the level of its GDP at the time of the introduction of the euro. However, among other things: due to the excessive low level of interest rates for Ireland’s rapidly growing economy and the favourable loan conditions granted by the euro area Member State, a bubble was created in the economy and a sovereign debt corresponding to almost four times the country’s GDP in 2009. Greece and Portugal also lived above the capacity stimulated by low euro interest rates and artificially good loan conditions. For these countries, Eurocooperation has both contributed to the crisis and made it more difficult to escape. With the euro as the single currency, these countries cannot benefit from falling exchange rates and thus increase competitiveness through fairer exports and travel. Nor have EU leaders allowed the countries in crisis to restructure their debt. As a result, ordinary people, young people and older people, have to pay the price of the crisis through unemployment and poverty, while banks that have given the countries irresponsible loans go free. Iceland, on the other hand, has rapidly restructured debt, and has had a currency of its own that has fallen in value, which has helped it so far seem to have been better off through the crisis than the most badly hit euro area countries — perhaps to some surprise, but perhaps not so surprising at all. Schengen and the free movement of persons within the internal market are also under strong pressure. Labour mobility between countries is still very low compared with the United States, but criminals make great use of the possibility of moving freely. Several countries now see the possibility of improving border control. In Norway, the Police Federation has addressed the same issue. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that we should open up the opportunity to assess changes in order to secure ourselves against growing, cross-border crime? The Minister for Foreign Affairs said he expected a formal response from the Commission on the directive opening up television advertising for alcohol. I'm deeply concerned about that matter. Manufacturers pay for advertising because they want higher consumption, and higher consumption will have more adverse effects. Europe has the world’s highest alcohol consumption and the highest share of disease and early death due to alcohol. We believe that the government, if necessary, must not hesitate to use the EEA Agreement's instruments in its utmost consistency with this Directive. Finally, an important matter which the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not mention. This concerns the Government’s proposal for amendments to the Petroleum Act, which the Storting is now under consideration — in the light of a statement of objections by ESA. These changes may make it significantly more difficult for the Norwegian authorities to require increased petroleum activity with local ring effects in Norway because the requirements for the organisation, management and location of bases in the petroleum industry are clearly weakened by this deterioration in the petroleum law. It seems to be clearly opposed to the government's own strategy for the north, New building blocks in the north, where it says that the government will promote land-based industrial development in the north. We are now facing a new era of Norwegian oil and gas development. The centre of gravity will be shifted northwards, and the population has high expectations of activity and jobs on land. The government's broad proposals may put a brake on this. Nevertheless, this proposal for amendments to the petroleum law has not been consulted. That can't be right. Several other issues such as this, based on objections raised by ESA, have been at the hearing, including: the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of Then one has to ask: why does the government go so quietly in the doors with this knee trap for Brussels in something as central as the Norwegian authorities' ability to make demands on oil companies about activity in Norway? Is it the fear of what opinions might come to a hearing, not least from people in Northern Norway, who have great expectations in this area? And why has the Centre's management of the Ministry of Oil and Energy agreed to such an EU adaptation of Norwegian petroleum legislation as this is? I have to say I was about to put the coffee in my throat when I read this proposition. It's been completely silent about it in the public room, and I hope it doesn't. I would like the Foreign Minister's answer as to why it has not taken time to consult this important matter before promoting it for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e332	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the presentation and join in the series of congratulations for the Arctic win, sail if I won't talk so much about that very topic. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs home after his little visit to Brussels yesterday. What I have to complain about is the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Brussels, where I think he said no to the wrong directive. Norway therefore rejects a directive that gives us more sensible competition in postal services, while the Data Storage Directive, which is a comprehensive monitoring of all Nordics, is welcomed. I do not know whether absurdity is a parliamentary expression. It is strange, however, that constitutional courts both in the Czech Republic, Romania and Germany reject this directive. Sweden has postponed the Directive one year, yes, the EU Commission has criticised its own data storage directive in the evaluation which only came a few weeks after the Workers' Party had pushed through this matter in this Chamber. The evaluation report states that the Directive shows clear weaknesses in the protection of privacy, harmonisation and cost to operators. There should have been a good reason for scrapping the directive, and that should have been the Directive the Minister of Foreign Affairs should have traveled to Brussels to oppose, not the Postal Directive. But I want to raise the other issues that are important. I understand that the European Union has many offensive approaches to tackling the major economic challenges they face, and it is not just about cutting social systems, as it seemed when the SV's representative spoke. I perceive that the EU is very offensive in investing in research and innovation, where the Europe 2020 growth strategy is at the heart. A key factor in achieving this strategy is that they have a fixed-term research target of 3 pst. of GDP by 2020. That's the same goal that the government in this country has parked, because we haven't fixed it anymore. In its previous statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that it was important that ‘Norwegian actors keep up and have the capacity to raise themselves’ in relation to the efforts of the Europe 2020 strategy. In this statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is most concerned that the strategy is not binding on Norway and only refers to it as ‘relevant’. It is worth recalling that NIFU STEP’s annual budgetary analysis concludes that the 2011 budget of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the rest of the government is the ‘weakest budget for ten years’ research and that a strong commitment is needed if we are to ‘keep pace’ with the stated objectives of the EU. It is worth mentioning that Norwegian participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research requires good framework conditions for Norwegian universities, colleges and research institutes. It must mean an increase from the appropriations at the level of the day. Then to energy and the environment. The Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the EU's energy and climate policy in his presentation, pointing in particular to the Commission's roadmap for reducing CO2 emissions in the EU. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not involved was the Norwegian commitments in European energy cooperation. I would then like to take the opportunity to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether the government still wants to negotiate the Norwegian obligations under the renewable directive in Norway in relation to Norwegian requirements. Finally, I would also like to address what is happening in the Middle East, and also what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in relation to the development of North Africa. The EU has a wide range of instruments to help the situation get a good result, ranging from free trade agreements to the relaxation of visa rules and entry permits, instruments that make the population in the countries concerned actually feel that they are getting more freedom when they have thrown the bullies. But instead of such instruments, we have seen an emerging debate on the removal and restriction of one of the most sought-after rights we have, namely the freedom to travel freely between countries. We have also seen that government parties in this Chamber have called for the Schengen Agreement to be thrown into the scrappowder of history. It's incredible to me. Europe should have set up in every way. Assistance, relief and the ability and willingness to accept refugees are all necessary tools for the EU's southern neighbours to participate in the freedoms that we have here in Europe. The North African countries should have seen what freedoms they can have if they choose democracy and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e359	To the representative’s question as to whether the word ‘absurd’ should be unparliamentary, the president can assure that it would be pointless if the president proposed it. Whether it is political coverage for it, the President leaves to the debate to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e362	First of all, I would like to say that this is a good and exciting debate on proper, real issues based on real policies and realities that I think everyone in Europe is experiencing. After 24 hours in Brussels, we experience that it is a pulsating place for many of the contemporary challenges of our continent and the rest of the world. North Africa was high on the agenda, as was the Israeli-Palestinian conflict – the foreign ministers met while we were there – and, of course, the financial crisis. It is worth remembering because, in the coverage of my visit yesterday, one could have a bit of an impression that there were Norwegian submissions on the third EU postal directive that dominated the debate in Brussels. There were many who were concerned about it, but I don't want to say that it had a total dominance in those conversations that went on there. Then I would like to thank you for the pleasant words of the Secretariat of the Arctic Council and for the other efforts there. And I want to return the compliment, especially to the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly, Mr Höglund, who has been an expedient partner in getting this done. So there were many who contributed, and it's going to be good and exciting for both Tromsø and Norway. So there was a debate here now on a good deal of things. I think I should concentrate my answer on this, because I mentioned the political situation in my presentation. First to the representative Eriksen Soreide, who says that she warns Norway against ‘picking directives à la carte’. Well, if there is one country that has not driven and picked directives à la carte, then Norway, which has the highest implementation rate of all in the whole EEA area – almost to say. We have earned it, and growing up over all these years with the EEA Agreement has benefited from Norway joining these directives, not from a coercive perspective, but because Norway, perhaps above all some, is served by uniform legislation, equal playing rules, predictability and recognition. As far as the Danish measure is concerned, the Danish claim that they have introduced product controls, not personal checks. The Danes have received a letter from the President of the Commission asking questions as to whether this is contrary to the legislation, and whether it really has the purpose it is meant to have. The Danes will have to answer as much as they can. It is possible within the Schengen acquis to take action in particularly demanding situations, but it is not up to the government – as I heard from the representative of Skei Grande – to throw the EEA Agreement ‘on the scrapheap of history’. It's a distortion of what the government stands for. We are in favour of the Schengen Agreement, we want it to work. That is why we want new states joining, such as Romania and Bulgaria, to be able to meet their obligations in order to also obtain the benefits that come from the agreement. The question was about Tunisia in relation to the EU. As I see it, the EU has not taken a position on it yet. They discuss different models of how North African countries can be more closely linked to economic cooperation, a discussion they have had long before the uprising in the Middle East. Enlargement of the EEA: I am not a member of – as discussed – the possibility of the so-called micro-states joining. I don't hear that as a whole idea in Brussels these days either. Other models are being looked at to allow these highly developed entities, the countries, to participate in the cooperation, but I think it is that the scope of the obligations and scope of the administrative challenges that you have as an EEA member will be demanding for these countries. It is also a position that we agree on on the EFTA side in the EEA. As regards the review of the EEA Agreement, there were many interesting perspectives on it, and I think it will be an exciting debate in the future. The Sejersted committee will deliver its report in a little bit. We're waiting for that with interest. The EU is also doing so, which seems to me to be an interesting grip that we are now going through the agreement as it works. Morten Höglund argued that it could be ‘sinful’ to look at the EEA Agreement – it is contrary to my definition of sin. I think it's all bona fide that we're looking at it. After all, it is intended to make the agreement viable and adapted to its time. The representative was concerned about several aspects we need to look at – the large packages the EU is promoting, cross-sectoral proposals, and that we no longer have this very simple single market breakdown that we had early on. The recognised Commission yesterday at the meeting as well. It was like writing out what we're saying here, a theme we're going to have to look at now. I feel that this is happening in a good tone between the EFTA side and the EU side, and let me just underline that the EU side repeats that EFTA, EU and EEA cooperation is exemplary. It works well, it's effective, it requires limited resources, and it works largely to everyone's satisfaction. It's an analysis that I share. Could there be turbulence around these debates? I honestly don't think so. Can there be debate around it and temperature in it? Yes, but it would also really be welcome – if I can say so. So to the Postal Directive. Skei Grande said that my errand in Brussels was to veto. Well, I was in Brussels to attend the EEA Council, which is twice a year and has a broad agenda, including current EEA issues. At this political meeting, it was reasonable that I should be briefing myself on the Norwegian position on the Postal Directive. So I mean it's a very honest thing in this room to have different views about what's an important thing. I respect those who say they don't think this is an important matter. I would say that when the Workers' Party went into the Data Storage Directive, it was not in fear of veto. That was because we were in favour of the directive. When the Workers' Party was in favour of the Services Directive, it was not in fear of veto. That is because we were in favour of that directive as well. Otherwise, I believe throughout Norway is not worthy of having the EEA acquis become as it was said in 1994, a Swiss cheese with many holes. We are served with uniform legislation as far as possible, because it makes it easier for Norwegian companies, researchers, students, organisations to deal with a uniform regulatory framework, and that no one out there is in doubt that if you come from Norway, you have the same rights and obligations, and the same applies when you operate on the Norwegian market. That is why we are well served to find solutions, and that is why I believe that there should be a high threshold for Norway to set in motion a process to ensure that a regulation does not apply to everyone. Nevertheless, we believe it is right that we now inform the EU that we will not introduce this directive into Norwegian law. I believe that in those areas where this type of issue becomes most relevant and has been discussed, Norway is different from Europe in terms of social organisation. In many areas, we are an A4 country, in the sense that our economy is similar to the economy of the European countries, and we are served by common rules. However, there will be a wide range of areas related to geography, settlement and natural resources, where Norway has different characteristics. I think that is one of the reasons why the areas of fisheries and agriculture, for example, have not been included in the EEA Agreement, because Norway is different in those areas. It is also true that with this Directive there is a concern about the possibility of maintaining an equivalent postal service throughout the country. The distribution of costs by it, the role of the Post Norway in meeting the needs, the unit portfolio and the rights of workers in an industry that is liberalised on the basis of external experience, etc., raises some of the questions that make Norway say from what we have in this way. As far as our partners, Iceland and Liechtenstein are concerned, they are in favour of the directive. They're to introduce it. However, they have asked for deferral until 31 December 2012, as eleven EU countries have. This means that it is not until we reach 2013 that there may be an imbalance in this market, because by far half of the EU countries have not introduced the directive today. What happens in the weeks that come? We have communicated our views to the European Union, and it is in the whole structure of the EEA Agreement that if there are different views, the parties should try to reach an agreement that resolves the disagreements that exist. Norway is bound by the EEA Agreement, I, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, follow the letter and spirit of the EEA Agreement and will therefore accept the invitation of the European Commission to discuss the problems of Norway with this Directive. We will do that on the basis of the issues we find problematic – take them up one by one and hear what the response is on the EU side. It also means that the so-called 102 process has not been initiated. It's because we accept this invitation to conversations informally. We're going to go to it well prepared, and of course we're going to keep the Storting constantly orientated when we learn from it. When it comes to the issue of alcohol advertising, which the representative Højbrätten has in mind, I think we have a parallel view. I'm not optimistic about that. I'm not saying that to talk the matter down. But based on the many conversations we've had and a clarifying letter from the EU Commission's responsible in the field we're waiting for, we're going to see how we're going to react. I still believe that health considerations – there are also important health wordings in the EEA Agreement – mean that we should maintain the practices we have, or find adaptations that allow us to have a ban on advertising. But we have to look at that when we get the answer from the European Commission. The representative of Skei Grande's research production was as crazy today as it has been otherwise. There has been a sharp increase in the appropriations for research under this government – a percentage higher than ever – and we are well placed in the European context in this area. Nor is it a matter of this government negotiating Norwegian renewable energy obligations. We are negotiating with the European Union on this, and we must achieve that safely. In the case of questions related to the Petroleum Act, I must be allowed to look into them and come back to the representative Højbräten. I can't answer that on the standing foot. But we want to have ring-effects from the petroleum industry in Norway — in all of Norway, also in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e420	First: My comment about sin was the warnings I received when I mentioned upgrading the EEA Agreement earlier. It was almost an international exercise, I got the impression. But I'm glad it's changed, that that's not the case now. On 12 May, the NTB reports that Central Party leader Liv Signe Navarsete believes that Norway should discuss restrictions on Schengen cooperation and reintroduce border control and that she will address this issue to the government. In the mention of Schengen and the possible revision of the Schengen acquis in the presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not say much about what the government's view is. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share the views of the centre party leader about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e427	I agree with those who say that it is important to follow closely on entering and leaving our country, combating the crime that accompanies parts of entry. However, I believe that we have substantial resources to gain from the organized cooperation that is in Schengen, and the underlying Schengen arrangements that ensure that you can travel without too much spoil when you are in business, as a tourist and as other travellers. That's what we deserve. With our long border, I think the introduction of border control, as it was in the old days, will be a challenge of almost insurmountable proportions. But we want to participate in the different Schengen forums to discuss problems that arise in a Europe where people travel across borders. It is an overwhelming majority of advantages, but it must not lead to us closing our eyes to the problems. The Danes have taken a grip that is now being critically abandoned in the seams. The government does not intend to introduce border controls in Norway, but will follow closely the arrangements we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e432	All government parties have now decided not to implement the third postal directive. Yesterday the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in Brussels and had meetings and briefed that Norway is likely to make a reservation. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that in the dialogue with the EU, he has room for action to come up with a solution that will allow the postal directive to be implemented, when national meetings are so clear in all three government parties? Or is it that it is only for the sake of being able to carry out the negotiations that you have to do, but you want to say no? Or can it actually, after the negotiations, lead to the implementation of the directive anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e439	I don't want to pre-shoot it today. But I say, as I said in the pulpit, that we're going there to follow up what's both the literal and the spirit of the EEA Agreement. It tells us to work to find solutions where there are problems. We have clearly identified the areas of this directive that we find problematic – I have mentioned them before in the pulpit and in the statement – and I communicated it clearly to the European Union yesterday. Then we'll hear what the European Union's reaction to it is, and what security we have. These aren't just parts. They're also connected. Making sure that in all parts of the country, in the middle of Oslo, up the valleys and along the coast, we have the same post offer, not just a prescription. There is a rather advanced policy behind it. Therefore, even if the directive allows for at least five days of postal transport, there are several things we need to know in order to be safe. This uncertainty has been so great that we have therefore chosen to say that this directive cannot be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. That would be the Norwegian position. But then we're going to have a quiet conversation, and we're going to do it based on an open mind. We will actively address the professional and seek good answers from the European Union, and then we will be able to conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e444	The representative of the Battle Force Vedum repeats on several occasions that the Right considers the EU to be an ‘irrational’ actor. The EU's primary interest is a homogeneous market. It's a very rational goal and a very rational argument. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also made the point of homogeneity and predictability in his presentation. He says about the Deposit Guarantee Directive: ‘Exceptions challenge the very essence of EEA cooperation: uniformity. [[...]] Legislation shall be implemented in the same way in all 30 EEA countries in order to ensure equivalent conditions of competition and predictability, which we have consistently served.’ I fully agree with that. The representative of Svein Roald Hansen said in his post that there was nothing in the directive that meant that there was no frequent mail delivery and that there was no single postage. Even national rules and domestic measures could be put in place to restrict competition. With this in mind, why does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it makes sense to use the third postal directive as a test piece for possible reactions by the EU to Norway in order not to ensure uniformity and homogeneity in the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e460	I mean to distance myself from that description of reality. This isn't a test piece, this isn't even a rabbit, which we take out of our hat. Norway has a directive in which we – in the government – have arrived – and we have communicated it in Stortinget – that we believe that this should not be included in the EEA Agreement, for reasons that I have been briefed on several times. But then it's important that someone in the image of the field of science, which is not in the EEA Agreement, concludes that this is the end of the discussion: Done, that's it. This is not the case, because the agreement is leading the way in which such a discussion is conducted. We'll go into that discussion. I'm still going to think that there's going to be a very high threshold in order to have a regulatory inequality in the EEA. Norway has a long track record that shows that we have also practiced what we are saying here, and we should continue to do that. If you spend a day in Brussels, you will see that the other countries in the EEA – EU countries – have a shock of outstanding problems that they are negotiating, discussing, have before the courts and sometimes before the monitoring body. Now we have one of these things. I think we should be able to master that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e469	It is interesting to hear the Foreign Minister’s report on yesterday’s talks in Brussels — not much attention to the EU postal directive as such, says the Minister for Foreign Affairs. For Norway, however, the possible consequences for the EEA Agreement as such are very interesting, and in particular our exclusive right to the large single market in Europe for our business. I have a specific question for the foreign minister to whom I hope he can answer: Where in the Postal Directive do we find provisions that are contrary to the wishes of many people to maintain six days' burden and the unit portfolio for letters below 50 grams?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e476	First of all, a small correction: the EEA Agreement does not give us an exclusive right to the internal market. That gives us the right, in line with 30 countries combined, to operate on the same rules and instruments. So both companies and others have to compete to get a place there – that's the way in. It's, as I said, how these elements relate that gives us that anxiety. The entry Norway today has occasion to sell – as I understand it – profitable services in this city in order to finance what we need to understand as unprofitable services elsewhere. This gives us a six-day perspective, a single portfolio for letters below 50 grams – and an important one that is not in the directive, but where experience from other countries is a cause of concern: workers' rights, wages and working standards in a liberalised postal market. It is the sum of what has caused concern in many parts of the country, including national meetings of parties and programmes, that has led to this conclusion. There is not a single wording in the directive, but that is the sum of it, up to what we want to achieve, namely important welfare schemes in the field of postal services. Now we're going to have a discussion with the European Union. We have the ambition to succeed in getting on with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e486	I will respect the foreign minister's wish to come back to the question of the petroleum law. I think that'll be necessary. But we will have to do that later in the debate. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the consistent and consistent way in which he manages Norway's interests in relation to the EEA Agreement. Unlike other EU members – whom I have registered as the Minister for Foreign Affairs – who speak down on each occasion of the EEA Agreement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs takes advantage of the EEA Agreement’s opportunities and takes on board the consequences of its mechanisms, including in the case of directives against which Norway is opposed. That's what he deserves. You have to do something in a line other than give recognition. And I would therefore like to know how the Stortinget will be involved in the treatment of the Postal Directive, when the Stortinget can expect a matter on that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e495	I think it was a nice time in the line, so the representative would like to continue doing so. It's not against me. When it comes to talking down or up the EEA Agreement, I will be allowed to advertise it today. Professor Sejersted, who is sitting in the gallery here, shall have a ‘HARD Talk’ with me on the EEA Agreement. Then I can promise the representative that I will talk to the EEA Agreement through the minutes it lasts. I get to come back to exactly when this comes as a matter. I just don't see exactly how it's going to go on. I think we need to find a way to keep the European Committee informed, as it meets in a continuous manner, and then the Minister for Transport and I together find out when the matter is of such a nature that it can be promoted as a matter. But we should not lack the opportunity to keep Stortinget informed about what impressions we have from the Brussels talks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e504	I don't have time for so much bragging. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we are in favour of a directive that we are in favour of and that is against a directive that we are against. What I was referring to is that I think it's a little strange that you think it's okay to monitor the entire Norwegian people in a directive, while you think it's very important to fight against competition in letters below 50 grams. But it's okay. I would like to ask for a directive, which I think perhaps I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I am a little uncertain, namely the Energy Services Directive. It is important to achieve good energy efficiency measures – an important environmental approach where the EU has been at the forefront. The government has spent – as far as I understand – a year and a half figuring out how to implement this. So my question is, when can we have a case about implementing the Energy Efficiency Directive in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e515	If a claim is repeated frequently, it does not become truer for that reason. I just want to strongly oppose the fact that the Data Storage Directive is about monitoring an entire people. It's about securing police tools to secure your and my security against crime, advanced crime, data crime and technological crime, while at the same time putting great emphasis on ensuring privacy. That is the purpose of the implementation of that Directive. Monitoring is something quite different, which we want to combat, and against which we have legislation. I cannot give a clear answer on a standing basis when that directive comes to an overall reading in Stortingen, but I will ensure that the representative is informed by the responsible State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e522	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e525	A thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation in a number of challenging and demanding areas of time to come. I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the work of setting up the Arctic Council office and secretariat in Tromsø, and not least to the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Arctic Council, Morten Höglund, who has worked very actively on this matter. It is good to see that we bring important questions to the port and establish them in Norway, and that Norway confirms itself as a centre for Arctic issues. It is important in the future when all these areas in the north are opening up more and more, that we have a hand on the steering wheel, not least in terms of oil and gas activities, and set environmental standards and standards for climate, etc. in these sensitive areas. There are two areas I want to go a little bit more into, which the Foreign Minister also had in his presentation, and that is energy and climate. As you know, energy policy should combine different objectives both in Norway and in the EU. It must ensure energy supply, of course, but it must also reduce climate emissions from the energy sector and contribute to the proper functioning of the energy market. Climate emissions are an unpleasant side-effect of our industrial activities. We know that the production of Norwegian oil and gas leads to less greenhouse gas emissions than production in other countries that we compare with, among others. due to strict regulation and the high level of Norwegian technology. We must be proud of that, but we must also look forward to it. The challenges that come into the wake of it are not small, and here there are great demands both for international cooperation, for our own government and for us here in the Stortinget. From 2009, the EU has now implemented the third energy market package and the climate and energy package. One of these regulations is the security of gas supply in Europe, which the European Parliament has now adopted. It shall result in increased security of gas supply and the strengthening of gas produced by energy throughout Europe. This Regulation will help to increase security of gas supply and to strengthen the gas produced by energy in Europe. It is very important for Norway, which is such a major exporter of this important product. This is of great importance to us. We're a stable supplier and we play a big role. Over 90 pst. Norwegian gas is now sold to Europe. Norwegian gas is an important energy supply to Europe. Gas exports in 2009 were eight times as large as Norwegian normal electricity production. Norwegian gas exports then cover 15 pst. of the European gas consumption. Most of our exports go to Germany, the United Kingdom, Belgium and France; Norwegian gas now accounts for between 25 and 35 pst. of the total consumption in these countries. But we've now seen what happened after the nuclear disaster in Japan. We've seen the environmental consequences and health factors. Then, as Europe has previously adopted, alternative energy sources are also more important and important. We also see how Germany is now reacting to it. Here we have a lot to contribute, and we must contribute to the development of alternative energy both in Norway and in common with Europe. We must not be aliens to build more cables for Europe, so that we become a battery in Europe in the energy market, thereby reducing total emissions. One of the energy decisions was that no Member State should be isolated from the European gas and electricity system after 2015. This is a huge challenge, and here we have to be on the ground and see what's going on and do. Norway and the EU have similar issues in climate policy. The EU has created a road map for low-carbon economy towards 2050, which includes, among other things: reducing CO2 emissions in the EU by 80-95 pst. by 2050. We're going to end up with this. I have noticed that the government also wishes this plan to be warmly welcomed. In other words, we're in action, and we have to be. We have major challenges together both on the climate side and on the energy side, and that is what we are going to do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e547	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for an interesting presentation. There is cause for concern about the southernmost countries of Europe and the refugees arriving from North Africa. The number of refugees from Libya, or, as the country is actually called, ‘The Great Socialist Arab People’s Republic of Libya’, is approaching one million. So far, most of them have settled in neighbouring countries, while 34 000 have come to Europe, mainly to Italy, and the figure is expected to increase sharply in the future. Firstly, there is reason to show vigilance in the case of refugees from a dictatorship that is about to fall. Of course, there is a humanitarian reason for many to flee, but among the refugees we are unfortunately at risk of finding representatives of the Gaddafi regime, those who fear to have problems when the regime falls. Secondly, this flow of refugees comes in addition to the permanent, constant flow of people seeking refuge from the Arab-Muslim dictatorships and from Europe. Thirdly, the southern European EU countries are in a critical phase economically. Major refugee flows do not only represent an additional economic burden for these countries. It also gives rise to social unrest, giving rise to the development of extreme political movements in Europe. As I said, refugee flows are of concern, making it even more important than ever to take action to help the refugees in Libya's neighbouring country, primarily in Tunisia and Egypt. The Schengen Agreement was an important measure to simplify formalities by crossing thousands of kilometres of internal European borders. Hundreds of thousands of well-trained people could be engaged in more important things than sitting and looking at people traveling around. The Schengen Agreement considerably reduced waiting time and unnecessary and costly processes. Now the Schengen Agreement is under pressure. Increasing flows of refugees, not least from criminals seeking new hunting grounds, create a rage among many Europeans. The requirement for enhanced border control is not limited to Denmark and France. I therefore share the view of the Foreign Minister that the basic principle of freedom of movement in the Schengen area should not be undermined. But thus the list is added high. Crossing borders between many countries in Eastern Europe often involves endless queues for passport checks, although traffic here is several times smaller, even almost de minimis, compared to traffic between countries in the west. For busy Europeans who live in a number of more borderline areas than we are used to here in Norway, waiting for hours at the borders will be unmistakable. At the same time, better control of traffic is required for persons coming from countries outside Schengen, and not least for criminals, who partly come from Schengen countries. The principle of introducing a check by stopping vehicles with registration plates from countries outside Schengen has been introduced, but this is probably not enough in itself. It is important that both the Schengen Agreement and the EEA Agreement are subject to continuous quality assurance in order to ensure that the works of agreement are suitable to meet the challenges we face at a time of change. It's important that the government gives this high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e573	The Foreign Minister and others have been commended with merit for their good account, and also for the progress of our work, which we all probably have as a starting point to bring both Europe and, not least, our neighbourhoods forward in an even greater dynamic. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs devoted so much of his account to the economic situation in which very many European countries are in the midst of, and the fear of downgrading and the fear of further consequences of the economic turbulence that we are experiencing, which will undoubtedly also have consequences for the Norwegian economy and Norwegian jobs. But these debates have a very small tendency to focus a little on what other countries, other authorities should do to a greater extent than we ourselves should use our own tools in our political work from our own point of view. I've noticed this and I'm not going to spend so much time showing examples of this. But I'll come back a little bit. I had the pleasure last week of attending Barent's Parliamentary Conference in Luleå. This violent continent, this region that consists of more than three million square kilometers, and is sparingly populated with only about six million inhabitants, is nevertheless an oasis in terms of minerals, raw materials, industry and the possibility of development. So I notice more and more a tendency that our two neighbouring countries, and also to some extent Russia, have looked more and more towards Europe. And unfortunately, it is to add that for Norwegian part of this region too, this is somewhat problematic. We have a frontier barrier. We have obstacles that create a development that is not in all directions positive, and we see population development going down. We have unsolved tasks in transport, communication, within power, within networks, and not least in air connections. There is no cross-border connection in this region other than a route between Arkhangelsk, Murmansk and Tromsø. This we have the opportunity to do something about if we put the political weight in this. A final declaration was adopted at this conference which is very interesting, very good, and in which, not least, the border settlement agreement between Norway and Russia was used as an example for others to create greater dynamism in this region. I also think we should be pleased that we have the close and good political dialogue up north-west with our neighboring Murmansk, who in many areas has actually been a kind of political and industrial doorway for Norway towards the Russian market. Then I notice the representatives of Solhjell and Battle Violence Vedum's punishment of Europe. Sunbells refer to the right-hand countries that cut in traffic, cuts in infrastructure, cuts in development and blame the euro for all the misery. I am well aware that there is no right-wing rule in Portugal, in Spain or Greece, and I wonder when I hear the crystal-clear advice of these representatives, why they were not on the track before, before the crisis appeared, with their solutions to how to resolve the crisis. There is a rather small criticism that affects their political friends in these countries, who are trying to do something about an infinite debt crisis, and who are trying to correct the fact that to some extent they have worked too little. You have too much black economy. A pension entitlement and schemes have been granted to themselves that have brought the country down in a drag sucker, which has the greatest difficulty in getting out of it. These are not nations that bathe in national oil revenues, as the representatives Solhjell and Schlagsvold Vedum enjoy themselves proudly here from this pulpit and in this forum, preferably taken from fields that they have voted against were to be built on Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e584	The polls show a clear no-majority in the constituencies. There are also more EU opponents among Right-wing voters than trailers. I think it is a response to the development of Europe in the aftermath of the financial crisis, with increasing unemployment and social unrest. Norway is being viewed and compared to this, where we are sitting on a green branch furthest north of Europe with unemployment of less than 3 pst. and continued growth in the economy and employment. That's how we became an alternative to the European Union in people's eyes, even though we as an EEA member are actually as integrated into EU cooperation as some Member States. Several EU countries are now experiencing a debt crisis so deep and of such dimensions that it is difficult to look at some way – with the strict demands made by the EU and the International Monetary Fund on indebted nations. Neither the EU nor the IMF nor pressured national governments in the countries concerned appear to be able to identify long-term solutions. Besides, I think the medicine that's prescribed is wrong. Conservative governments, supported by a conservative majority in the European Parliament, unfortunately know only one prescription, namely hard-handed budget cuts that hit people the most, which are worse than helping to improve the situation in the most vulnerable countries. Two weeks ago, leaders from central/left parties across Europe met in Oslo to discuss the road map of the left side out of the crisis. One thing is clear after the conference: without creating a basis for new growth, employment and value creation, and without restoring social stability, countries such as Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain will only sink deeper into the crisis. Well, we must be able to demand that they make their living and provide a balance in the budgets in return for loans and credits, but we must not deprive them of the hope of a better future. Not out of charity, but out of self-interest, Norway, with its unique economic position, should join forces in the EU in taxing financial transactions and establishing a European bond regime, known as Eurobonds, to assist vulnerable EU countries that more than ever need new investments and jobs. This is the necessary Marshal aid to our own continent. If we are not able to do this task, it can be quite bad – and when I say ‘we’, it is because the crisis can quickly become our own if the purchasing power of our main export markets is further weakened, and the demand for Norwegian exports is falling. Following last week's Congress of the European Cooperation Organisation in Athens, LO's husband in Brussels, Knut Arne Sanden, notes that there is now increasing professional scepticism in the EU, because European trade union movements experience that the rights of workers have gradually become more difficult to respect. The interpretation by the European Court of Justice of the Posting of Workers Directive and the inability and interest of the Commission and the European Parliament to change practices in this area are a direct attack on European trade union movements. The European Court of Justice actually opens up to social dumping, which is of course of particular importance for countries with a high cost level. In Norway, we have so far been able to adapt and correct EU directives through national legislation. The General Public Service Act and the Solidarity Act are examples of this. Therefore, it is rather sad to record that the NHO is now challenging the Public Service Act under EU law. The Temporary Agency Directive lays down rules on the hiring-in and hire-out of labour and the pay and working conditions of employees in such assignments. The main principle is that temporary agency employees should have the same pay and working conditions as those of the company that hires labour. This means that at a Norwegian shipyard a Romanian worker must have the same pay and working conditions as his Norwegian colleagues – and that is good. However, the issue is whether the Directive simultaneously challenges Norwegian working environment regulations and collective bargaining agreements, in the sense that we need to more fully accept labour hiring and hiring. I am confident that the Norwegian Government will ensure that Norwegian labour environment legislation is not challenged in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e599	I would also like to start by thanking the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an interesting presentation on the EU and the EEA. I've been thinking about dealing with a few of the issues that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was dealing with in his presentation, and I was thinking about starting with what the previous speaker was talking about, the debt crisis in Europe. It is a major challenge that many people have faced with the high unemployment rate, and if one does not get a solution to this in the longer term, there is also a risk that it could create social unrest and destabilise some of these countries in Europe. But I'm not as impressed with – let's say – the solutions. Now it is the EU and these countries themselves that need to find the solutions. We're not going to adopt them here. Norway has experienced similar crises in the past. And what turned out to be the key to getting out of those crises -- for example. the crisis in the 1930s – it was not public intervention, it was not public regulation, it was not public subsidies, as politically argued that it was, since it was a labor party government that came in 1935, but it was actually the innovation and innovation that started in these crises. Thousands of small businesses were started in the middle of these crisis years, and historians today conclude that this was actually what helped to get Norway out of these crises financially, while demand increased internationally. When you have a debt crisis in these countries, there are really two things you have to do: you have to cut costs, you have to look at what's inefficient, and you have to make some tough decisions about it, and then you have to get the economic engine going, so you get productivity up and economic growth up. Failure to do so will result in all such temporary measures – debt restructuring, etc. – just be a postponement of the problem, but you haven't solved the problem. The problem will only be pushed into the future, and then it will continue to grow as well. Without recognising the need to actually use the market, get market forces going, I think it will be difficult for many of these countries to get out of the crisis they are in. So a little bit about this with the reservation right, which has also been up. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has now, for the first time, approached a directive – yesterday – and we think it is positive. It's positive that this right is real. It's something that's not just formal on a paper and in an agreement, but it's something that's real. This is something we should actively use to ensure national interests in EEA cooperation. That is why we are pleased that you are going to take the step of using it, but we are very interested in the matter you choose to use it on. As you mentioned earlier, you did not choose to use it on the Data Storage Directive, which is a very extensive move of borders with regard to citizens' rights and privacy. It is said that there are no national interests that are so important that you want to use the right of reservation, but you use it on a case that deals with postal items from 50 grams down, and then says that this is an important national interest in EEA cooperation. It is a wonderful way to use it, especially when the foreign minister in the reply box could not answer the specific problem of the postal directive. The Postal Directive guarantees five days' distribution, unit tariffs, etc., so that this would not be a problem. However, it is concluded that in a sense it is the sum of all of it, and that there is fear of the rights of workers. Nevertheless, you are not concrete. Then I wonder: will you be as specific in the debates on this issue as you are here? Then my question becomes: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs really believe that you can get through profound changes, or is this just a temporary game to satisfy the country's meeting decisions made in the parties? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs really believe that Norway will have an impact on this? Or is it that you now sit down and negotiate and expect that you really have to give up on this, but then you can say that you have gone this round, which was necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e612	The Minister for Foreign Affairs made a good and thoughtful statement last week, with what is happening in Europe's neighbouring regions, such as the backbone, the fight for freedom and democracy, to which we have to give our support. It shows the situation we are in, and how privileged we are, who can stand here and discuss liberalisation of mail. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a good account of the government's position on the Third Postal Directive. For the government, there are compelling arguments that Norway is opposed to the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement. On Friday, the day after the presentation, we had an inter-pelling debate in Stortinget on the Postal Directive – a pre-post-fection, you might say, for the debate that we have here now. It is not, as someone is trying to make it, for the sake of the Post that the government believes there are serious arguments against incorporating the Third Postal Directive. It is for the sake of good postal services for everyone and at equal prices, without it cost the state or taxpayers more money than it has to. In order to supplement the investigation to which the representative Svein Roald Hansen referred in his statement and what he said: The need for government purchases will increase in the years to come, as a result of the fall in demand for universal service. The same investigation further states that the Third Postal Directive is likely to weaken the revenue base of the Post and further increase the need for government purchases, regardless of whether competition becomes real or not. Only the pressure from competition will weaken the revenue of the Post, which in turn means increased government expenditure in addition to the case of postage demands, in order to maintain the offer we want, with unit portfolios and six days' load throughout the country. Saturday delivery is particularly important in the districts, where the paper comes with the mail. The investigation also states that it is not unlikely that other actors will be involved in the central eastern region — cream crates, as the investigation calls them. It will further weaken the income of the Item, and the need for government purchases needs to increase accordingly. The fact that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, from an ideological market perspective, want full liberalisation is a well-known thing. Bondevik II proposed full liberalisation from 2007, before the entry into force of the third postal directive, against the votes of today's government parties. We reversed that decision when we got in position in 2005. For the Workers' Party, it is not relevant to have to pay more money than we initially have to, for a policy we do not want. The postal market is a falling market. It is quite different from the liberalisation that was in the telecommunications sector a few years ago. It is quite different to liberalise a market in growth, as the telecommunications sector was — and still is — than to liberalise a falling postal market. This cannot be easily compared. This is precisely why there are concerns about pressure on the pay and working conditions of employees, as we have seen in several countries that have implemented the Directive. Pressure on these rights doesn't get any less in a small market, where that can be the only way to make money. In other EU countries, we have seen increased use of temporary employment, increased use of contractors and pressure on wages. The Labour Party does not wish to pursue such a policy or to participate in the organisation of such a policy. The Right Party and the Advance Party have a completely different view of work issues. That they do not share this concern is not surprising. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs and several speakers have pointed out, it is not just to say no to a directive. There are certain procedures in the EEA Agreement for what is now to be done, as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Those procedures must – and must – be followed. I assume that the European Union is also dealing with them in a good and sensible way. Finally, concerns have been expressed about what this might have been saying about the activity of the Item abroad today. Article 102(6) of the EEA Agreement states: ‘The practical consequences of the termination after paragraph 5 shall be discussed within the EEA Committee. Rights and obligations already acquired by persons and market participants under this Agreement shall continue to exist.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e637	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e640	On the left, there seems to be an understanding that the right side of Europe is responsible for today’s problems. That's wrong. What has happened is neither a problem related to the EU as an organisation nor to the right as such. But it's about major national challenges and political mismedication. Spain’s main problem was economic growth that was unsustainable. Spain’s main problem was a housing bubble that you would and had to crush. Greece’s main problem was to keep the entire defence budget out of the balance of the budget and to have an over-exploitation that few other countries have seen over the course of time. In addition, regardless of political parties linked to Greece, attempts have been made to mislead the rest of Europe as to what actual use of money meant. In Portugal, there was a classic example of over-consumption. Then comes the medicine, once again prescribed by the representative Solhjell, who believes that the right-hand side wants to spare itself out of the crisis, while the left-hand side wants to invest out of the crisis. Spending more money in a situation that now, in both Spain, Greece and Portugal, will only prolong the crisis — not improve the crisis. The main problem in all three countries is that the debt burden is too heavy to bear. When you see what the different countries pay on their government bonds, it's a sky-high interest rate, precisely because the market doesn't look at the debt as sustainable. What has to be is two things. It's about making the economy more growthable. This means, quite rightly, that research, innovation, innovation and industrial development still need to be focused on, but on the other hand, budgets must be cut sharply. You have to balance back. In the long term, no country is able to maintain a budgetary imbalance without having a significant impact on the entire economy and on unemployment. Gullvåg says that the right-hand side knows only one prescription — less consumption and cuts in welfare schemes. No, not at all. What Gullvåg is a defender of is what is still seen from the left, a one-sided focus on increased use of money. And that is actually the main reason why Europe is in crisis today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e655	There is enough political controversy about why there is an economic crisis in Europe today, but I had probably hoped for a recognition from the right-hand side that a release of market forces without political control is a strong contributory reason why things have gone as bad as they have been – because that is a fact. In many ways, the EU has been at the forefront of this type of detachment, and they are now in a major economic crisis. I could say a lot about this, but I have taken the floor for another matter. It's closely related, because the labour market and what we produce there is the sustainability of the economy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech that Norway should have a high threshold for objecting to a directive, and that this is the case where Norway differs from Europe. This is what we do in terms of labour market participation, in terms of low unemployment, high employment, high productivity and a labour market that gives a very strong share of money, power and influence in society. It has helped to ensure that Norway is a very successful country in many areas, and that people in this country are much better equipped to cope with the financial crises than in very many other countries. That is why the importance of the agency directive is important, and it is important that we go into it very seriously. I don't think there is anyone who is against ensuring that temporary workers are well protected in the workplace, but the purpose of the directive is probably more to legitimize the recruitment agencies and rental agencies. In Norway, one of the main pillars has been fixed employment. Fixed employment in an enterprise means that one has control over both the working environment, wages and the kind of things, but also that one has a business that is not structured on the basis of a desire to avoid taxes, taxes and obligations. Unfortunately, we see such trends today. This is a more important feature of the labour market. I don't think that's a good development. There are many myths about the manning companies. A myth is that renting is necessary for flexibility – it is not. Businesses can hire people when they need them, and quit when they don't need them. It is a myth that temporary employment leads to permanent employment – nor is it documented, not at all. Manning companies create new jobs, say someone – they do not create jobs. They just create some new jobs that are not fixed. A myth is that temporary employment meets the needs of employees – you are employed as a temporary worker or in a temporary employment agency because you have not received any other job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e666	Several have affected the demanding economic situation and the debt crisis faced by several EU countries. There are many reasons for the situation in the different countries, and there is no doubt that for some people it has enough to be within the euro zone, with a lower interest rate than they would otherwise have, contributed to a loan that they would otherwise not have received to such an extent. But we must not forget that in any case it is the responsibility of the countries to conduct a responsible economic policy, and so some of these countries have not. That's the one. Then they're very grateful. It may be difficult for some of these countries to invest themselves out of the problem. But it's clear that they don't cut and spare themselves out of the problems either, so they have to figure out a combination of it. This is how the representative, Mr Vedum, pointed out, goes far beyond what is initially a joint responsibility in EU cooperation. As he put it, there won't be much nation state again. However, we must not overlook the fact that, independently of integration into EU cooperation, there are some driving forces behind integration, which are there in any case. It is globalisation, internationalisation and the division of labour in the world. We're also affected by these cancers. When the financial crisis struck, Iceland’s currency lost its value. The Norwegian krona sank by between 30 and 40 pst. against the euro and the dollar, so we were also affected by it. The driving forces are there, regardless of whether we intended to ‘remove’ the EU cooperation. Then the representative Morten Höglund pointed out something that Laila Gustavsen said in the debate on the Data Storage Directive, that there should be special national considerations to invoke exceptions. The difference between the Data Storage Directive and the Postal Directive is that the Data Storage Directive balances the relationship between privacy and societal considerations – they are the same in Norway as in Sweden, Germany and Italy. Norwegian geography is not the same as in Denmark, so to speak. It is not the case, therefore, that the national meeting of the Workers' Party has chosen the Postal Directive as a test piece to make reservations, as the representative Eriksen Soreide expressed it. There are probably people who have that attitude – we heard that in the debate on Friday – but that was not the motive for the national meeting. There were concerns about the concerns raised in the debate. The question now arises as to whether or not the national provisions for which the Directive provides can adequately address these concerns. That's what ultimately becomes the assessment when we get through the 102 article and two times six months – that's probably what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e675	This has been a far more sobering debate on the EEA Agreement's reservation rights than the one we had in connection with the Data Storage Directive. The reason is obvious — in the meantime, the Labour Party has taken its national decision. The warnings issued by a number of representatives, in particular from the same party, aimed at us who would have a reservation in the case of the Data Storage Directive, are much more nuanced today. That's good, because that's how it is. Several of us, in the debate on the Data Storage Directive, were concerned to establish that the right of reservation is there to be used when other routes do not lead and vital questions for Norway are put to the fore. What the Foreign Minister replied at that time is in line with what he is saying now. That's why I allowed myself to give that reward, because he's one of the few who's actually kept a consistent line from the previous debate to this point. I may think that some of the representatives who were driving the horror propaganda the longest in the debate on the Data Storage Directive and the implications for the EEA Agreement should have cost themselves a small amount of recognition of it in today's debate. But now leave it. I come back to the matter that I brought up in my main post, and that I think is very serious. Throughout Norwegian oil and gas history, it has been a very important matter for the government to have the opportunity to impose conditions on land activities related to allocations and related to the exercise of the powers we have over the companies. These options are now proposed by the government to weaken, because they have encountered opposition from ESA. And not enough with that: the government proposes it in a proposition that has not, as the Administration Act requires, been at the hearing before it comes to the Stortinget. Such a hearing may be avoided if it is clearly unnecessary, but I think it is obvious that such a case should have been at the hearing, because there are clear interests, not least along the coast, in order to know: Is the government prepared to use that kind of opportunities in the future, or is it prepared to play from within the scope of this type of governance to ensure the ring-fence of the oil and gas business as it moves northwards? I would like to have the Minister of Foreign Affairs say something about that question. I would also very much like to hear the Central Party justify why such an important issue of district policy has been so easily raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e682	Like the speakers who have spoken before me, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation in the United Kingdom last week. He focused on many important areas in Europe in which we are all more or less affected. For me, the unemployment rate among young people is one of the most serious things we will meet when the Europe of the future is to be further developed. We can imagine the situation that young people are in – good education, but no job to meet tomorrow. It is so worrying that it is a topic on which we need to cooperate in solidarity, not only within a country, but also between countries. So far, solidarity has produced results. However, we see several examples of the challenge of solidarity, which has been the cornerstone of EU cooperation. I want to take a trip to our neighbours in the east, to Finland, where the Sanfins – the party that made a fall-back election and became Finland’s third largest party just a month ago – now withdraws from all government negotiations because other parties will save EU countries. The populist and nationalist party has grown rapidly and has made a good choice, among other things. in view of its immigration-critical attitude, as several parties have become large in other European countries in recent years. Their clear refusal to save EU colleagues who have been suffering from economic shocks is worrying. The Sanctuaries see no good reason to spend money trying to save countries that have ended up in a disaster. A polling carried out in advance of the election showed that 59 pst. by those who were asked, Finland would have its European neighbours sail its own sea. This trend persists in more and more countries. Many people believe that we are witnessing Europe's own Tea Party movement, where angry voters have found themselves tired of economic uncertainty and that their own country is constantly helping others. There have been reports in several European countries — Finland, I have mentioned, but I can also mention Ireland, Portugal, France and Germany. I'm worried about this kind of development, where more and more people just get concerned about themselves and forget that you're part of a community where you stand together about what needs to be solved. That quote I feel that Europe is now in. That is why I think it is worrying to see this development, as in particular. The Sanctuaries and their controversies represent Finland. I just want to take it up from the pulpit, because I think there's a reason to stop and think a little bit about what solidarity can do to keep us having a good Europe, where we can all live in harmony.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e695	If the representative of Skovholt Gitmark had heard well after, he would have recorded that I was primarily concerned with the way out of the economic crisis that now affected EU countries. My charge against the conservative forces in Europe, conservative governments in the Council of the European Union, conservative majority in the European Parliament, is that they lack the ability to outline the way out of the crisis, and that they focus solely on deficit requirements in the budgets, debt requirements and after-payment of debt, without looking at social Europe, the balance between measures to restore the budgetary balance and social development in Europe. I mentioned two concrete actions that many EU countries are committed to, pointing out one way out of the crisis, namely the taxation of economic transactions, financial transactions, and the establishment of a Eurobond regime, so that vulnerable countries can once again have the capacity to invest and create hope for a more positive social development in their countries. What really worries me is that, in countries by country, we now experience that a generation of young people is not getting into the labour market, with the consequences it could have for the democratic development of these countries. We now see through the local elections in Spain that this generation of young people is turning against those who govern, against the system that exists, and is seeking refuge in smaller parties on the extremes of politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e709	What is the result of the local elections in Spain is that the Right's sister party Partido Popular has done exceptionally well, and that the Socialist party is now at a historic low end. The voters in Spain have distanced themselves from the policies of the Socialist Party. The voters in Spain have said that they want something else. We've seen that in the rest of Europe as well. The representative of Gullvåg wants more of the same medicine that has brought Europe into the crisis. We have to take a distance from that. It is just an unwitting use of money that has made it a country like Portugal, Spain and Greece that is most deeply in crisis. You've been using over skills. And when the representative Gullvåg then again wants to medicate with more of the same thing, which doesn't work, it's worth taking a step back and warning against it. We must have two thoughts in our head at the same time: on the one hand we must have significant savings. Country has to come back to its budgetary balance sheet. But on the other hand, the long-term way out of the crisis is just to make the economy bigger, to facilitate employment, to facilitate business start-ups, to see that research and development are actually an investment in long-term well-being. In Norway, as in the rest of Europe, the right-hand side does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e718	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 4186]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e734	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from the Minister of Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e743	The Internet and social media have become an important tool for mobilising people in many countries in increasing conflicts. The Internet also plays an increasingly important role in the release of information in closed regimes. The Committee therefore agrees that social media and the Internet should not be censored and blocked. The Committee also agrees that freedom of expression is essential for well-functioning democracies, and that Norwegian international involvement will be an important contribution to combating censorship of Internet-based opinions, and then through social media. A number of regimes in North Africa have experienced what seems to be a new democratic spring. They have, among other things, The Internet and digital media were able to mobilize large crowds, spread information to the world about events in their own countries, and they have even overturned regimes. These are young people who want a new chance. They want economic development, a job and freedom to express themselves as they wish. This is clear in Egypt and Tunisia, but the fight for free democracy is still under way in countries such as Libya, Belarus and Syria. At the latest today, we see that Syrian authorities are trying to confuse their own citizens by means of social media as a counter-tack to the daily mobilisation of the people's uprising. This shows how important social and digital media are, and have become, for democratic movements around the world. Therefore, a free Internet and free social media are very important for freedom of expression worldwide. To the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right: The majority of the Committee considers that the government has, through various projects and international cooperation bodies, anchored its work on freedom of expression on digital media in relevant international forums. In a letter dated 4 March from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the Minister stressed the Norwegian commitment in particular. UN and OSCE. The letter emphasises that Norway actively supports the efforts of media freedom representatives towards freedom of expression on the Internet in the OSCE. In the context of the Astana Summit Declaration in 2010, it appears that any attempt to restrict access to the Internet and social media in a Member State may be charged by the media freedom representatives or by a Member State. Norway has also had a broad commitment to freedom of expression on the Internet through its work in the United Nations. This shows the government, among other things: through Norwegian support to the UN Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Speech. The UN Special Rapporteur is now preparing a report on access to electronic communications and freedom of expression on the Internet. The report shall be available for the current year. It is with background in, for example, these two examples that the majority of the Committee considers that the government has included freedom of expression on the Internet and on social media as a central part of its international human rights work. The Progress Party and the Right also promote a proposal for a separate strategy on how Norway will work to promote freedom on the Internet and in social media in relevant international forums. In 2008, the government launched an freedom of expression initiative to strengthen Norway’s efforts to promote freedom of expression in conflict areas – an initiative that has laid the basis for a comprehensive Norwegian commitment to freedom of expression internationally. I have already mentioned Norway's contribution in various international forums, such as the United Nations and the OSCE. In addition to this, the government has, among other things, A total of 15 million. to journalists working under strong pressure in conflict areas. The government also actively supports a research programme in Egypt, which looks at the role social media have played in the movement of democracy in Egypt. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that, with its launch of the 2008 Freedom of Speech initiative, the government has already put in place a good strategy to promote freedom of expression on the Internet and in social media in relevant international forums. The Committee further points out the seriousness of the Norwegian business situation if Norwegian companies are exposed to distortions of competition at the time of Internet censorship. It is also clear from the Committee that Norwegian companies are to compete internationally on a level playing field. Therefore, companies experiencing Internet censorship, and thus weakening competition conditions, should consult relevant Norwegian authorities and institutions in this respect. In addition to this, the majority of the Committee has no further comments, and the Stortinget argues that the proposal for an Internet and social media strategy is annexed to the Protocol from a human rights perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e773	We live in a break-up time internationally. In the Middle East, we now experience a development that, a few years ago, would have been thought possible, and which in many ways reminds us of the processes we experienced in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union in the 1990s. People rise up against totalitarian regimes, shake off their fear, go out into the streets and demand democracy, reform and freedom. The old structures are shaken, and several places, such as in Egypt, the regime shifts are in full swing. These processes are still vulnerable, and we know from history that such social and political upheavals can also take the wrong path and make the situation worse than it was before. Hopefully that's going in the right direction. In such processes the media have always been central. We can draw a parallel from history: it was the art of printing that made the Reformation possible, with the social and political upheavals that followed in its wake. Today it is the emergence of the Internet and social media that are the social drivers of the social mobilization we see around the world, of opposition policy and of regime change. Through the various types of social media, the opposition in many countries has been able to avoid the control of information on which the rulers have been dependent in order to maintain their regimes. Social media allow criticism of the regime to be voiced, mobilised to act and informed the outside world of what is happening, regardless of the regime. It is an enormously powerful weapon against the totalitarian states, and it hits them at their weak point. When they lose control of criticism, communication and information, the regime itself also falters. Norwegian foreign policy has an ambition to promote peace and human rights. Norway is not a major economic or military force, and we don't have the kind of power to back up our policy. However, the development of the Internet means that Norway can still make significant contributions. Social media exceed national borders and regimes. For opposition movements and dissidents, it may be essential that they have this free flow of information through the social media. In 2006, the US government introduced a strategy for the use of social media to promote the development of democracy. The aim was to prevent totalitarian regimes from stopping the free flow of information and thus also halting reform movements. This American strategy focuses on censorship of opinion, but it is also a strategy to respond to regimes through diplomatic and political instruments. In this way, you get an overall approach to these situations, you get a conscious use of instruments, and you get to take advantage of the space of action that's there. The use of the Internet is today high on the American foreign policy agenda, and perhaps there are some of the fruits of this strategy we see unfolding in the Middle East today. When we see the importance of social media in democracy development and regime change, we believe it is important that Norway also has a clear strategy to exploit the potential that lies here. We are aware that Norway has taken good initiatives, for example: in the context of the 2008 freedom of expression initiative. Support for organisations working for these things is also positive. We still lack a broader strategy for the Internet and social media in Norwegian foreign policy. Today it is approx. 40 states that practice an excessive censorship of the Internet. The OSCE points out that we are just beginning to develop on the Internet. Such a strategy should look at freedom of expression in the perspective of the emerging media and better exploit the space for action contained therein. To stop the opposition, technical, political and diplomatic instruments should be brought together to a greater extent vis-à-vis countries that are trying to restrict or stop the use of social media. In this way, democratic forces are strengthened, but there is also an approach in such situations that is principled and holistic. We have therefore put forward a concrete proposal that the government should develop such a strategy. We do not believe this in itself is controversial – there is broad agreement on the principle and importance of new media. We should therefore like the proposal to be widely welcomed. In this way, the government could also show that you are listening and can take suggestions that do not come from it itself. It is regrettable that the government has not done so in this matter and has not supported the proposal. I would like to take up with this the proposals No. 1-3, from the Propulsion Party and the Right, as described in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e796	The representative of Torkil Åmland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e799	Let me start by giving commendation to the two previous speakers for their good speeches. After the Middle Ages, we've had a continuous technological development. In 1979, the population of Iran, and especially of the largest cities, went out into the streets to protest. One was in the demand that the Shah be overthrown, but one wasn't together about what was to come. In 1989, the Soviet Union and its satellites no longer had the power to keep the population down, and regimes broke down in the following years. This year we've seen something completely different. This year we've seen a change in velocity we haven't seen before. It has been suffocating for a long time throughout the Middle East and North Africa. But when the man from the market in Tunis put a guy on himself, he did not know in advance that it would be the Tunisian revolution. He also didn't know, like most others, that it would spread to a significant number of countries throughout the region. The change we're now seeing is relative to velocity. There are, as in the past, significant changes, but it is primarily through free flow of information that the Internet has such an impact on precisely democratization waves or, for that matter, on protest waves. We don't know today whether this is a democratization wave, precisely because two dictators have disappeared, in Egypt and Tunisia, without knowing what to replace them with. We hope and believe and work to ensure that those who take over will be legally elected, stand on democratic principles and deal with a democratic constitution. But what we now see in Libya, Syria, Yemen, Iran, Bahrain, just to name a few, is that violence has widened, that the authorities are once again using both censorship and other means of shutting down the flow of information, to make it more difficult for the protests, to make it more difficult for the opponents of the regime both to organize themselves and to get on the offensive. Unfortunately, this type of technology is to a large extent the West itself, which has for a long time sold to the regimes. I think it's a significant paradox that American companies are among those who are foremost in selling technology to the oppressors, to China, which keeps its population in an iron grip. Economic development seems to be a good thing for as long as there is no need to progress in relation to the Governing Board. One of the things that holds the iron grip in total is just the control you see over the Internet, over social media, where words and images can be locked out of millions of computers. Yes, it is American technology, which has been developed by the Chinese themselves. It's one of the things that actually needs to be addressed in contexts where we're discussing human rights and democracy, that this kind of technology doesn't have to be delivered. It is again, I believe, a clear violation of human rights to introduce technology that causes the freedom of expression to be suffocated. Let me say that the proposals we are dealing with today are, as I see it, general excitement. The disagreement seems to be whether this has already been implemented or not. Then my approach is again that then it is unproblematic to be involved in adopting the proposals. It seems to be a misunderstood loyalty to the government that all the opposition proposes should not go through in Stortinget. I think it is good that the Stortinget stands together, good that the Stortinget now so clearly shows that social media play a role, good that the Stortinget says that this must and should be part of not only Norwegian foreign policy, but Norwegian policy to promote democracy and human rights. But we must also be able to establish that through a proposal, without the loyalty of the government overcoming it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e822	The people's uprising that we've seen in the Arab world in recent months has been a widespread rebellion of freedom. A striking feature of many of these people's travels is that the Internet and social media have been an important interface for the exchange of information, discussion and popular mobilisation. This is a trend we've seen in other parts of the world as well. Ordinary people can with a mobile phone take pictures and video recordings and with a few keystrokes spread this online to say the whole world. Freedom of expression is given new opportunities by means of this new technology and forms of communication such as Facebook and Twitter. The traditional and out-of-date information control and censorship of authoritarian regimes are similarly undermined, and there is a feverish search for new possibilities to implement what has always been done: to stop dangerous opinions. This creates anxiety in authoritarian regimes. In a number of countries, we see aggressive attempts to crush the new channels for free communication. The Internet is censored, manipulated and monitored. Mobile networks are blocked, and search is conducted on sources of revealing images and video recordings. People are being chased from the streets by weapon power. Others are imprisoned, interrogated and tortured — all in order to prevent people from using their natural human right to express themselves freely and to gather together. It's pathetic, but at the same time very, very brutal. There are almost no limits to how brutal methods are now being used to suppress truth and freedom of expression. The Christian People's Party supports the intention behind the proposal for a representative. We are of the general opinion that proposals which the proposer realises have already been implemented, perhaps should have a different fate than being subjected to voting in the Stortinget. However, we fully agree with the intention and record with interest the follow-up that is already taking place. We are upset when democracy movements, human rights champions, activists and journalists are censored when they are refused to express their political views, their religious beliefs or other opinions. Freedom of expression and freedom of belief are fundamental human rights. We need a broad strategy to defend these freedoms. Digital media such as the Internet is an important communication platform. We must protect freedom of expression. Social media must not be suppressed by censorship and blocking. On the other hand, they must be recognised – because they have had a significant impact on the development of democracy in a number of regimes. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will have a strong Norwegian commitment to defending freedom of expression on the Internet – not least in the new social media. We are pleased with the broad Norwegian commitment shown in recent years in various international forums where freedom of expression is a central theme. The rapporteur mentioned the 2008 freedom of expression initiative, an commitment to freedom of expression in conflict areas. In line with this, Norway contributes to a number of projects supporting international organisations and democratic movements in such areas. A very topical example is the research project in Egypt, which takes into account the role digital media played in the regime shift in the country. In addition, Norway supports the international organisation ARTICLE 19, which fights to strengthen media independence and to eliminate censorship of both digital and more traditional media. Norway has also increased support for journalists working under strong pressure. Like the rapporteur, I would also like to stress the importance of ensuring a level playing field on the Internet. Norwegian enterprises experiencing Internet censorship in other countries need to deal with this with Norwegian authorities, so that it can also be an important and integrated part of the struggle for freedom of expression by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e845	Many wise words have been said about the content of this proposal for a representative. Let me just say with regard to the proposal, that I agree with the representative, Højbräten, that it is a pity if there comes out an opinion from here that there has been a disagreement about the content of the proposal. I experience that proposal No. 1 of the draft representative has been implemented. We have it on the agenda. It has been a topic for us in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, out at embassies and at international conferences for a long time – the 2008 strategy is mentioned. Making our own strategy for this is to break out of what is the broader work of human rights – it's a difference of hue. When it comes to analysing the threats to Norwegian businesses, we believe that it is a responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. So let me say this: we very much support the intentions behind the proposals. There was a newspaper article yesterday about a Syrian police officer who stopped a car at the border between Lebanon and Syria. He searched the car and wondered if the driver had Facebook lying in the car. The driver could have called it off, but it was kind of the journalist’s summary of how bad it was – that the police thought they could find Facebook and confiscate it. It's clear that this is a technological change of revolutionary scope. At the same time, we see, and read about it in headlines today, that even repressive regimes now know to use social media in their campaign. That is why we will continue to have this on the agenda, not only, but among others. together with the United States. Sweden is another country that places this on the agenda – and more. We have now had a number of seminars called the Trygve Lie Symposium in connection with the high-level week at the UN General Assembly. We think this year – at the planning stage – to dedicate this seminar to freedom of expression on the Internet and on social media, to set an international agenda. I would therefore like to say that this is a good initiative. I think it has broad support in Stortinget, and I hope that this debate will be left behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e856	I am not going to extend the debate unnecessarily, but will signal, in the light of the signals that have come to the debate, that the Right and the Progressive Party will make on proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal, in the assurance that this has been well incorporated. We mean what we write in proposal No. 2, and will still have a vote attached to it. As regards proposal No: 3, and that there is a department other than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we do not believe that this will prevent Stortinget from taking a vote related to it. So we still want voting on the proposals No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e867	It's registered. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 3 to 10 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted. [[See page 4186]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e964	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from the Minister of Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e975	I have been the case rapporteur for the three positions, on the annual report from the Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union for 2010, on Norway's participation in the Council of Europe for 2010, and, finally, on the annual report from the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Council for 2010. These are three unanimous settings. There is a common impression in the Committee that Norway has been well represented in those institutions in 2010, that the political agenda has been totally influenced and that it has succeeded in tracing the debate on Europe’s security and defence policy and human rights issues. The challenge today is that the Western European Union, which saw today's light in 1954, has its last meeting in June this year. We have seen that European defence and security policy is increasingly being implemented in the European Parliament. We know that Norway is not there. For a long time, Norwegian work has been largely contributing to the setting-up of a new interparliamentary body that could contribute to the discussion of defence and security issues in Europe, in which Norway saw the integration of those degrees. This has not yet succeeded, and if you will be able to succeed, at least the undersigned does not know. Some answers to this question are not included in the setting either. It is a political challenge for Norway, and it will also be in the future, because there is not so much that indicates that we will have full rights in the European Parliament, at least in the short term, as I have understood from the previous debate. However, this is about the possibility of parliamentary networks. It is about the fact that it is not only in the respective departments that deal with security, defence and foreign policy issues, knowledge and networks must and can be built. We have ample experience in the good results of parliamentary networking and bring considerable knowledge to this forum. This knowledge we have to make sure to carry on. In brackets, I might ask the presidency to consider – as the Western European Union is now shut down – if not the time to develop a host body in the field of European policy, in line with what we have, which must be regarded as successful, for parliamentary participation in order to gain knowledge of the operation of the UN. In the case of case No. 7, on the Council of Europe, there is no doubt that this is a human rights issue and that the Council of Europe has now acquired new heavy Member States in its portfolio of members, which has contributed to the dramatic increase in the number of cases. Unfortunately, the number of untreated and unresolved human rights issues is increasing. Although the job has been to increase the capacity of the European Court of Human Rights, etc., there is no doubt that Russia and other former central and eastern European countries present new challenges. When we look at the European map – the Western Balkans, the Caucasus, etc. – these are the geographical areas that are based in Europe and which may not have been the areas in Europe that have received the most political attention from this room. It is a matter of concern, and I am pleased that the delegation to the Council of Europe has helped put these questions on the agenda. There is also reason to stress the good reform work undertaken by the new Secretary-General, Mr Jagland. This reform process means that although the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly only has advisory functions, the institution contributes to putting important political issues on the European agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e992	I, the undersigned, shall be the rapporteur for the configuration No. 336, 338, and 335. The Committee is unanimous in all these settings, so that the signals from the Committee, or from the Storting, should be unambiguous. I just want to relate a few words to the first setting, to the cooperation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, i.e. the OSCE, and to the importance – as the Committee also stresses – of this organisation as a tool for political dialogue and cooperation to resolve conflicts in these countries. What the Committee has noticed is that the preparations for the organisation's first summit since 1999, to be held in Astana, have been central to the organisation's work in 2010. This meeting agreed on a declaration of confirmation and reinforcement of commitments previously entered into, but an attempt to adopt a common action plan is not entirely in sight. It is important that this action plan is put in place. It has also been noted that this action plan should be continued in 2011. I believe that support for measures to improve the OSCE's crisis management capability to strengthen freedom of expression and protection of national minorities and to improve the follow-up to the results of election observations and observers is a particularly important area to be followed up. Here, the OSCE is of great importance. The Committee has also noted the 17 field offices of the OSCE, namely the Western Balkans, the Caucasus, Eastern Europe and Central Asia. It is gratifying to announce that those offices contribute positively to the protection of human rights and minority rights in these countries. It is an important listening point, and it is an important reporting point. As regards support for continued efforts in Serbia, Kosovo and Bosnia-Herzegovina, the Committee has noted that the mission team of the OSCE remains the largest organisation, but that it has been committed to a reduction of 10 pst. in 2011. This area is still very troubled, and the situation may deteriorate soon. It's important that you've looked there. Belarus is also mentioned in this setting. Post-election harassment and violence against opposition politicians, journalists and other representatives of civil society, not least the imposition of the death penalty and the decision not to extend the mandate of the OSCE Office, represent a step backwards in the process of democratisation and development in that country. The Committee is very concerned about this development. The OSCE certainly has its part to play in getting a proper dialogue in place and getting a change. In the case of the OSCE, they also provide for a comprehensive establishment in South Caucasus and Central Asia. We fully agree with the government that it is regrettable that it has not been possible to restore the OSCE office in Georgia. We look at the recent developments there, how important it would have been to have this office in place now. What we have also noticed is the active work of the OSCE in establishing a multinational framework against illicit trafficking in small arms, and we refer to the 2010 decision that the OSCE participating countries should exchange information on the implementation of the OSCE principles for trade in such weapons. The Committee considers this to be an absolute step in the right direction. So some considerations about the annual report from the IPU. There I would like to underline, and the Committee has also stated in its position, the need for coordination of the activities of the various international delegations of the Grand Duchy. It was Dagfinn Højbrätten who took this up in the previous debate. The Presidency should note that the Committee has pointed out and that there may be a greater need for clearer definitions of the areas of concern to each meeting. It's an important thing to organize and talk about. Finally, I have to say that it is also the responsibility of the representatives appointed by these interparliamentary organisations to be more active here on the Stortinget, and in these environments, to maintain better contact and better information.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1018	I have been the case rapporteur for the case concerning the Joint EFTA and EEA Delegation. In the extension of the debate on European issues earlier today, it should be noted that this delegation is an important instrument for parliamentary contact, not least with the European Parliament, but also with colleagues in the EEA/EFTA cooperation. I would also like to commend what the delegation has done to take care of Norwegian interests, put important issues such as the northern areas on the agenda in its work, and would otherwise point out that there is a unanimous vote here also in relation to the delegation's work. Then I would like briefly to comment on what the representative Ivar Kristiansen has to say, relating to a hosting system in relation to the European Union, and perhaps the European Parliament in particular, and to say that it is supported from this point of view. We have such a system in the United Nations that has worked for a long time. Now I'm going to be very careful to think very loudly, but there's a system in which the magnification representatives are gone for four weeks to follow the UN. Took one of the weeks and gave it to the EU, I think it could be an investment that was well worth it, so that, on a broad scale, the Biggest could get a sense of how the EU works, not least create a network. My last few minutes I will use to comment briefly on what is associated with the OSCE. The rapporteur, Tore Nordtun, has presented the Committee's position in an excellent manner, so only a few considerations. The Balkans is a moving area once again. It is now true that many regional organisations have an eye on the Balkans, not only the OSCE – the EU and the Council of Europe are central. That's why I'm going to leave the Balkans to talk about the two areas where the OSCE is probably a little more alone. One is Belarus. Belarus is not a member of the Council of Europe, nor does the EU have a special role to play. The OSCE office has now also been closed, almost thrown out of Belarus. But it doesn't worry about what's happening in Belarus, nothing less, rather the opposite. Belarus is moving from evil to worse, they are isolating themselves and laying down in the ground with everyone. Having a constructive intervention in the development of Belarus is a challenge, but nevertheless a task that needs to be sought in order to support positive forces in a country that is struggling on many fronts. The next region is Central Asia, where the work of the OSCE is very important and where the broadcasting teams in Central Asia play an important role. I would like to point out two critical countries: Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. Both are countries that are fragile, very poor, close to Afghanistan, with the challenges it poses, especially those related to trafficking and drug traffic, as well as poor government structures, high levels of corruption and pressure from many sides. Using the OSCE to stabilise and support these countries is an important task. Much is done, but more can probably be done, not least having a political focus on these countries. I would also like to underline what is said about Georgia, where the situation is critical. With regard to electoral observations, where the OSCE and the ODIHR are leading in this respect, the forthcoming elections in Russia will probably be a test of the confidence of the OSCE in this area. There is no secret that there is a conflict between Russia and some like-minded countries on the one hand and the United States and some other countries on the other. Providing sufficient frameworks for the OSCE and the ODIHR to conduct a thorough election observation will be a test of the willingness of Russia to accept it this time. It would be very critical if Russia did not accept electoral observers who could work under satisfactory conditions in the future elections in Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1033	It's the total settings we have here, and it's positive. I want to use it as an input to my comments the last time that the representative Höglund said. The very relationship with elections in Russia, which was the concrete example, shows the importance of these organisations, which are often spoken down in the light of the fact that the EU, the financial crisis, Brussels, takes a lot of time and attention. But it is, for us at least, in these bodies that we can with regulation put such matters in hand on the agenda, in addition to Belarus and the conditions in Ukraine and other countries that it is worth going into. So it's useful that we get this discussion in Stortinget. Although there is no disagreement, it is important to register it. It strikes me, just to think, that we are now discussing the work of these organizations. In other organisations, which are very in the wind during the day for natural reasons – Arctic Council, Barents Council – we do not have these types of instruments. There might be something we should reflect on together – how we get debates into the room also about the work of those bodies. I am not going to have many opinions on the parliamentary dimension of the VEU, except that we had an inter-pelling debate on this in February, and that we on the part of the government think it is positive that Norwegian parliamentarians are seeking as many participatory frameworks as possible in Europe. I also think that the representative of Høglund’s proposal is interesting – what he said about the use of time out. The difference might well be that we have a different kind of approach when we're in the United Nations, where we're a full member and we're particularly active. How to develop such a week should not be good to say to me, but now the Storting has its own team in Brussels to assess such questions As far as the OSCE is concerned, it is an organisation of importance. We had a summit in Astana last year, which gave a statement confirming and strengthening the OSCE commitments previously entered into. Nevertheless, we see political tensions, and we learned that it was not possible to agree on an action plan. Nevertheless, we went through the tools we have to prevent and manage conflicts and were reminded of the importance of the OSCE for conflict resolution, for example. during the unrest in Kyrgyzstan. That was positive. The OSCE has also played a role in facilitating confidence-building in the political and military fields, including: through mutual exchange of information on defence planning, battle forces, weapon systems and activities. Now we're following the work on CFE and trying to salvage that agreement, further develop it. There hasn't been much reason for optimism there. We expect the Presidents Obama and Medvedev at the G8 meeting later this week to come up with this, but unfortunately there is no reason to be very optimistic about the possibility of reaching an agreement. Belarus is mentioned. It is important that we keep pressure on Belarus also by requiring them to follow their OSCE obligations. Norway and 13 other OSCE countries decided to activate the so-called Moscow mechanism. The use of this will result in an additional report on specific conditions. The Belarusian authorities have, as expected, rejected such an investigation, so unfortunately it must be carried out beyond the borders of the country. Then it's the election observation that was mentioned. Norway has actively supported this, including: by showing that we too should be observed, and that we should follow up the comments made by election observers after being in Norway. I would also like to point out that the OSCE has a large field presence that we should not forget – 17 field offices in the Western Balkans, in the Caucasus, Eastern Europe and Central Asia. They work to a large extent for the protection of human rights and minority rights. The government regrets, as many people here in the debate, that it has not been possible to restore the OSCE presence in Georgia. In the absence of such a presence on the ground, we see a special need for involvement from the various institutions of the OSCE, including the High Commissioner of the OSCE for National Minorities, who is now Knut Vollebæk. The Council of Europe is also important and the importance of the Council is increasing as the central organisation for democracy and human rights. At the Istanbul ministerial meeting a few weeks ago, we agreed to strengthen the Council of Europe's neighbourhood policy. Then we talk about neighbouring policies to the south, where we see how the Council of Europe can share its experiences with countries that are trying to choose the path of democracy. There was also an interesting debate on integration in the European countries, based on the former Minister of Foreign Affairs Joschka Fischer’s report ‘Living together’, which goes to the heart of most countries’ efforts to achieve integration and good minority treatment. Then, in all these organizations, we experience that the conflict in and about Georgia goes again and partially blocks the work in political contexts. It is a reality in Europe and shows that there are unresolved questions. We, on the Norwegian side, reiterate the importance of Georgia's territorial integrity and respect for it, and although no agreement is reached on issues relating to the break-up republics, it is important that the Council of Europe and others do what they can to ensure the protection of minorities and human rights there. The European Court of Human Rights is a core institution. During my participation in Istanbul two weeks ago, I made it a main point from the Norwegian side that we need to get reformed by the Court, and that the countries are conscious of their responsibilities and do not thwart this court that can be resolved before they get that far. We have wished for the entry into force of the so-called Protocol No. 14 to the European Convention on Human Rights, and as I said, we support measures limiting rejection cases and repetitive cases. With regard to the Human Rights Fund, which we initiated in 2008, it is also important in this context; it has already supported measures to remove obstacles to the implementation of national courts. Through this fund, Norway and four other countries are making a concrete contribution to strengthening human rights and reducing the burden on the Court of Justice. This applies to the EU and the Council of Europe: there has been a lot of work here in recent years. From the Norwegian side, we focus on further developing the Council of Europe's relationship with the EU. There is a cooperation agreement in place from 2007 and it has led to enhanced cooperation, including in the new democracies. Finally, Norway supports the reform programme launched by the new Secretary-General, but we now experience that going down from reforms at the overall level to reforms of the organisation’s programmes and the different use of resources can often be much more demanding because of the opposition to national choices and priorities. However, it is important that the Secretary-General has the support of Member States supporting the reforms, and Norway is one of those countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1073	As I said in this debate last year, I feel privileged to participate in the Great Britain delegation to the Council of Europe. I'm still standing by. At a time of increasing intolerance and discrimination in Europe, it is important to maintain a high level of human rights. Norway has a special obligation in this way as one of the world’s best countries to live in, and as one of the ten countries that contributed to the creation of the Council of Europe 62 years ago. There is a wide range of issues raised in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly – a little too large, many believe, including the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland. So in the short time he has been in this position, he has already come a long way in a comprehensive reform programme. He wants to make the Council of Europe more relevant by concentrating efforts on those policy areas where the Council of Europe can really mean a difference. As an organisation in which all European countries participate, except one, it is, in particular, with regard to the fundamental human rights that the Council of Europe can make that difference. Some examples: Ukraine, which now heads the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee, wants to use its presidency actively to combat violence against children. Today and tomorrow, a major international conference is going on in Kiev to put this theme on the agenda. The conference will be followed up by several activities. Increased political awareness of the theme in all Member States, the dissemination of best practices and the focus on the importance of cross-sectoral, professional and cross-border cooperation are some of the objectives behind the conference. The situation of the space people in Europe is another topic that has been under debate — a repetition, unfortunately. The refugee situation, the institution of asylum, the need for an active integration policy are other themes. Many of these cases are highly relevant, including in Norway. That is why we have spent some time in the Norwegian delegation discussing how we can help increase the relevance of the Council of Europe in our own political debate. We have, both in the previous period and in this, been involved in marking the Council of Europe's campaign against violence against women, and we want to draw some of the most important debates in Strasbourg into this Chamber. One example of this is the interpellation debate on the Roma population in Norway. There was a direct follow-up to the urgent debate in the Council of Europe last autumn. One of the main conclusions of that debate was that ensuring the rights of space people must be achieved at all levels — national, regional and international. We tried to make our small contribution by focusing our attention on the situation of the Roma people in Norway. We're going to continue this practice. Human rights issues are important, including in our domestic debate. Sometimes we tend to think that human rights violations are happening in countries other than our solid, traditional democracies in Western Europe. But it's not always like that. In the summer of 2010, as stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a group of experts was set up under the auspices of the Council of Europe to help target the organisation. The expert group was commissioned to answer a very fundamental and central question: living together — how do diversity and freedom combine in Europe of the 21st century? The report — a little gloomy reading — points to increasing intolerance and xenophobia, discrimination, religious conflict and the development of parallel societies in the wake of rapidly increasing immigration into Europe over the past few decades. However, key actors with capacity and the ability to reverse these negative trends have also been identified. Some of them can be mentioned: the role of the media, employers and trade unions, civil society, churches and religious communities, municipalities, member countries of the Council of Europe – the Council of Europe itself and other international organisations are highlighted in particular. The importance of education and the qualification of immigrants for participation in their new home country and the importance of good role models are also emphasised. The report is important, if active. We in the Norwegian Council of Europe delegation will try to contribute to this. For example, a first ‘case’ may be: be the further debate and consideration of the investigation by the Brochmann Committee. So far we've already seen some leads to derailment of that debate. The Council of Europe's report on living together in diversity and freedom can help to keep that debate on track in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1090	The Council of Europe is the oldest of the major cooperation institutions in Europe and was established as early as 1949. The organisation aims to promote democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in the Member States. Wide cooperation with the development of common objectives and standards in these areas will provide the basis for peace and security in our part of the world. I have had the pleasure of being associated with the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly for nearly six years, and it has been very interesting to participate in the organisation's work. Thorbjørn Jagland took over the important job of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe with a clear objective of both revitalising the organisation and focusing on fewer projects and areas where the organisation has advantages and competences. Evaluation of the organisation’s activities is an important step in easing the work of the Council of Europe and making the organisation more politically relevant. The focus has long been on improving the effectiveness of the European Court of Human Rights. All Member States have now accepted the latest reforms contained in Protocol 14, but even stronger lye is required to deal with the increasing number of cases coming to the Court and the growing queues. Processes are now in progress to seek solutions, which were also discussed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The challenges are mainly related to cases that actually have nothing to do with the Court of Justice, and how to effectively reject these cases early in the process. The necessary reform work undertaken both to modernise the Court and the rest of the organisation has broad support in the Parliamentary Assembly, while, of course, there is some more scepticism in the organisation's bureaucracy. As I said at the outset, the organisation is trying to develop as similar standards as possible in terms of both human rights and democracy. An important part of this work is to assist the new democracies of Eastern Europe with advice, guidance, regulation and evaluation. In this connection, I have had several times the pleasure of participating in both pre-electoral missions and purely electoral observations on behalf of the Council of Europe in Eastern Europe, and last year I had the joy of participating in both parts of Azerbaijan. Although the countries of the east have moved significantly in the right direction, it is still a long way to go both in terms of freedom of the press and freedom of expression and in terms of the elections themselves. So over to something completely different, namely the interparliamentary union, or the IPU, where since the fall of 2009, I have had the pleasure of being the Vice-Chairman of the Great Britain delegation. The main objective of the Parliamentary Assembly is to promote peace and cooperation and to support the development of representative democracy in all parts of the world. I have followed the work of the third committee, which has the promotion of human rights and democracy as a field of work. The work in the IPU is interesting, and not least contact making, but it goes without saying that when representatives from almost 160 Member States agree on something, the political message is often very diluted. In 2010, IPU organised a number of interesting thematic meetings in addition to the two usual main sessions. I had the pleasure of attending both a conference in London on trafficking, and one in New York in connection with the United Nations Conference on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons Agreement. The Agency’s bureaucracy and not least its use of money have grown significantly in recent years, as has been noted by the Norwegian delegation. The quota to be a member of the organisation now eats up the vast majority of the Stortings budget for IPU, so that in the current year we only have the funds to participate in the main sessions. In my opinion, it is completely pointless that most of the funds should be used to carry out a bureaucracy that organises a number of interesting meetings and conferences that we ourselves cannot afford to attend.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1109	IPU has long traditions, they actually go all the way back to 1889. And even if there's a proud legacy in this, it's so that old organizations can also be confused. Large organizations with many member countries and large delegations can easily evolve into large - word assemblies and your two full resolutions. It is therefore important that Norway and other Member States support the renewal of the organisation. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the IPU is not an organisation with a large budget and an executive mandate of the United Nations Development Fund or the World Bank. IPU is primarily a meeting place for parliamentarians from all countries of the world for addressing global challenges and an important for democratic governance. It's on this basis that we should align our commitment for years to come. It is easy to agree when it comes to ‘contributing to the preparation of strategic plans for individual Parliamentary meetings and providing clear boundaries on the areas in which individual Parliaments are to be involved’. But when you evaluate the IPU, it's always nice to think that there's a group that consists of more than 150 members. These parliaments are not as stupid in form or content. IPU is a kind of UN on the parliamentary arena. And how easy is it to reform the UN? It is true that many of the themes mentioned in the Interparliamentary Union are also mentioned in other parliamentary forums. But since many of the themes are involved, in reality, global challenges such as climate change, human trafficking, security, good governance, yes, it may not be very unnatural. The fact that these problems concern parliamentarians in all countries, whether they participate at national, regional or global level, is rather a plus than a minus. I would therefore argue that such questions have a natural place on the IPU's agenda. The IPU is, after all, the most important global parliamentary union. For example, discussing the UN's Millennium Goals in the IPU should therefore be at least as natural as discussing the Millennium Goals in one of the regional Parliamentary Assemblys. In this context, I would like to briefly comment on the cooperation between IPU and the United Nations, which has increased in recent years. This is not at least evident in the General Assembly resolution on cooperation between the UN and the IPU, which was adopted last December. In its resolution, the General Assembly calls for cooperation between the United Nations and the IPU, especially when it comes to peace and security, economic and social development, international law, human rights, democracy and equality. The way IPU tries to fill this task, among other things. by organising or co-organising various parliamentary meetings in connection with important UN-related conferences. The purpose of these meetings is to involve peoples from all over the world in important international issues and mobilise parliamentary support for the UN's objectives – in my view, an important work. Another way the IPU is looking for closer intervention with the UN is by engaging in work on UN reform, especially in how the UN works at country level. One of the IPU's most important areas is democracy building. IPU has a human rights committee that is working specifically to find prisons and missing parliamentarians around the world. Every spring session — country by country — will be attended to by named persons who are imprisoned for their duties. It is good to focus on whether we have duplication of efforts in the various parliamentary forums. Such concerns may be justified, and in the IPU an additional question may arise as to whether the organisation is engaged in activities where a person does not have very good intentions to make a difference. Should the organisation e.g.: have a fairly comprehensive HIV/AIDS programme? The intention here is not to conclude, but it is quite obvious that the IPU needs a tighter priority when it comes to its efforts. This view is otherwise shared by a large number of IPU member countries and, as I said, a large and extensive work has been undertaken in the field. At the same time, it is clear that priority is given to resource use choices, and the different countries have different choices and priorities. Several reform processes have been launched in the context of IPU, and the organisational secretariat started last year, for the period 2012-2017, has some positive features. Let me immediately say that the way it was first formulated had a significant flaw: it was too ambitious and would certainly have included substantial increase in the budget and quota – an impossibility in today's economic reality. The fact that the countries are now involved in a process where the priorities for the next few years are to be met is very positive. The Norwegian delegation intends to make a good contribution to this process, together with our Nordic counterparts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1139	The size is an institution in a significant number of organisations. That's good. That's also shown by the fact that we're now dealing with eight issues together, seven of them dealing with organisations we're in. But it's asking a question of coordination. It asks a question whether the Storting is close enough when we discuss, or whether the Storing is even discussing what's happening, what's coming out of the meetings, and not least what we're propelling, or opponents of. It goes back again to the main essence: are the debates being held, forward-looking, or are they looking back? I feel that the debates here in Stortinget relating to the various protocols are almost – almost exclusively – retrospective. It's unusually negative, and it helps to downgrade the work associated with the different delegations. We should have a discussion that was much more about: what do we want to achieve with our participation in the various delegations, for Norway, but also for the different party groups? I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs very much for having a meeting last year with the various Heads of Delegation just to improve this coordination. It's a first and important step in that direction. It is very important that we discuss together up to what the Norwegian positions and interests are in the different contexts, but that we also have a common understanding of the argumentation in different statements, and then one must be agreed in the vision. I also believe that much of the power of the organizations lies in what kind of matters are being dealt with. In too many cases, there is little evidence that Norway is a driving force in raising important national cases in several of these delegations. The Western Union is disappearing. We rely on Norway to have a voice linked to parliamentary control of defence and security policy in a broad European sense. I think it would be beneficial for the Stortinget to discuss the principles even more clearly. What do we want to do with such parliamentary control? What organs are we best served to be present in, and with whom? I think the debate today has been better than many others. I think it is gratifying that we are now bringing together the debates, and that, once again, we are ending up with a greater degree of coordination. But I still think we are too short-sighted and forward-looking in our debates, but with more honourable exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1150	I take the word here today to give feedback after the VEU delegation was in Paris on 9 and 10 May and in a way helped to bring down the whole VEU. The meeting was clearly marked by the fact that it was the last session. The discussion focused heavily on the closure of the VEU, the results that the organisation could achieve, and not least on how to maintain democratic control over the EU's common security and defence policy. The President shall open the meeting by stressing that the Lisbon Protocol entrusts the European Parliament and the European Parliament with the task of establishing an interparliamentary conference for the control of the EU’s security and defence policy. He also pointed to the meeting held by the European Parliament in Brussels in April this year, and, unfortunately, there was no full mention of a new body. However, the Presidents of Parliament have had some say that an interparliamentary conference should be set up. Search countries for the EU and non-EU European NATO members, including Norway, are also negotiating an observer status. What is not negotiable is a key for the number of representatives from the national parliaments and the European Parliament. The dispute arose over the number of representatives of the European Parliament to be sent. What's going on is that it's hanging, and it's kind of uncertain when a final decision is made. The majority of those who spoke in the debate expressed fear that there would not be a body ready to take over the stick when the VEU is now put down on 30 June. They thought it was unsustainable to wait for the next Presidential Assembly, which is not until April next year, to come to an agreement. Everyone was very negative about the European Parliament getting too much representation in the new conference, and, of course, used the argument that defence and security policy are national issues and therefore should not be defined by the European Parliament. Many countries also stressed the importance of participation in the new conference by Norway and other non-EU European countries. And the Norwegian delegation was highlighted by several representatives, who stressed that Norway had asked important questions, such as: North and Arctic, on the agenda. Our delegation had the opportunity to address the desire for Norway to participate in a possible new body, and we stressed the positive fact that Norway had been given the opportunity to address security issues relevant to Norway and Europe, especially the North and the Arctic. On behalf of the delegation, I would really like to thank you for us, since we are now in our position to be done and finished. We've had great, educational and contact-creating experiences of joining the VEU, and we've used the ability to put Norway on the map. I would like to express my gratitude to the international secretariat, which has helped the delegation in an incredibly good way. If a new body is created, at least I'm very positive that Norway should participate, if we get an invitation. I believe that Norway can participate in European bodies, Norway should participate. And: Both I and others in the delegation are happy to put us at the disposal if there is a new body and it needs members!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1170	I've had the pleasure of representing in the IPU for almost two years, and it gives some reflections about the level of ambition, presence, impact and not least how money use should be. IPU is the oldest International Parliamentary Assembly. It is large – it is members from 155 countries – so it is a very important assembly. It shall promote peace and cooperation as well as support the development of representative democracy around the world, and it is obvious that it is important for Norway to have its vote in this respect. I myself made contributions to the 1st Committee of the Last Assembly that was, in Panama, around the upheavals in the Arab world and about what opportunities IPU has to influence what is actually happening, and the development of the Arab world ahead. At the same time, there are reflections on the level of ambition to be achieved, both personally and individually, on behalf of the organisation. After all, when we sit in the Chamber and hear the debate, we see which countries are most active in hailing democracy and being very eager for the fight against human rights. It's a country like Cuba, Iran, Syria and Venezuela. They have extremely strong opinions on how to develop this. And I have to say that when I sat in the hall and read on the Internet about Syria's dictatorship, where one shot at its own inhabitants, while one from Syria made statements that Israel was the culprits of everything that was wrong, there were some reflections about both the need to be present, and the fact that one might have to be careful not to tie up too many things in relation to the level of ambition of the organization. In fact, for Storting, there is no apparatus to follow up any obligations that should be included in such meetings. So I want to share Waxdal's concerns about the way the money is prioritised, and the way you spend the money. We now only have the opportunity to participate in the main sessions, so we're funding a lot of the IPU's operations. The IPU follows the United Nations system in the way it is financed, but the United States is not a member of the IPU, which means that a much larger share falls among others. Norway. Our membership quota for IPU has gone up from just over 400000 kroner to over 800000 kroner from 2006 to today, and the forecasts are that it will go up if the level of ambition remains. Some reason is that the membership quota is paid in Swiss francs, and there is no cloud for everyone else – that exchange rate seems to go to heaven. What I have specifically requested is that the delegation should have some insight into the budgeting and use of the money. We haven't seen a single budget as long as I've been in the delegation. I find that completely unacceptable. I feel that I am responsible for how this money should be used. I believe it is important that if we first allocate a lot of money and spend a lot of money on the IPU, the delegation should also know how to distribute it. It will also make us much more aware of how the actual membership fee goes beyond possible travel activities, if we are too casual in relation to the participant fee. I would say from the pulpit that I am going to put quite a lot of pressure on the delegation to have full insight into how the money is budgeted and spent, and how it is distributed on participation and on the quota. I think that's quite important for the other delegations as well. I think you should be focused on why you are present in that kind of assembly, and that of course also applies to the use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1185	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1188	The representative Lise Christoffersen made a good contribution on the relevance of the work of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, and I can join in all she said. Since Thorbjørn Jagland was elected Secretary-General, he has had reforms at the top of his list of priorities. He has received broad support from the Parliamentary Assembly for the political and administrative measures he has proposed. The main objectives of the reforms are to strengthen the Council of Europe as a relevant political body and to concentrate on fewer projects and areas where the Council of Europe has a special advantage. The need for reform is great. Not least, it is necessary to make changes in the way the Human Rights Court works. The Court itself is the flagship of the Council of Europe. Here the citizens of the Member States may be tried whether they consider that the courts of the home Member State have taken decisions contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. There are a right people in the 47 Member States who use it. Only last year there were 50,000 new cases. The Court of Justice is in no way able to escape these cases as they come in. It's a challenge that needs to be solved. The debates in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly clearly show that Member States share many challenges. Yes, in many areas it is almost striking how similar it is across Europe and how parallel the national debates are. Two weeks ago, the European Council report ‘Living together’ was presented. It is written by a selection of so-called distinguished persons, led by Germany's former foreign minister, Joschka Fischer. The Parliamentary Assembly has repeatedly expressed concern at the emergence of religious and political extremism, ideologically motivated discrimination and violence. In large parts of Europe — both east and west, north and south — this debate has become more acute. The new report states that European societies must be rigorous in demanding and ensuring the same freedom for all citizens. At the same time, the law must also be equal to everyone. One of the sample members, the British Timothy Garton Ash, recently stated that Europe needs ‘a liberality with muscles originating from a broad, democratic centre’. At the same time, he rejected attempts to squander religious debate. Religion is not a skin color. There are no rational arguments against anyone's skin color, but there are important rational arguments against religious doctrines and belief systems. The report goes straight into the Norwegian political debate. Here, too, we see that there can be greater ground for extreme attitudes, and at the same time we see that some – also central politicians – are trying to equate religious criticism with racism. If such extremes are allowed to dominate the debate, we will not go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1203	The most fundamental issue for all European individual states and for Europe as a whole is related to issues of peace and stability, democracy and human rights. If over time is to be successful with this theme, each country – individually and individually – must pursue a continuous dialogue on these basic societal values. Our history books well document why this is necessary. Historically, human rights, democracy, peace and stability in Europe are the exception and not the main rule. For many of the 47 Member States, the Council of Europe is a good school in the building of democracy. It was therefore natural for the social democratic grouping some time ago to command the sister party in one of the new democratic countries back to Parliament after they sabotaged the democratic election result, a choice that they lost. Option is a win-and-lose option. In any case, one must be loyal to the people's judgment and democracy. The human rights court and convention is what makes the difference with the other European institutions. For this reason, one of the most central points of the Council of Europe work plan is to put in place mechanisms to ensure that the Member States fulfil the obligations we have in relation to the Convention on Human Rights. The Council of Europe has therefore put in place action plans to support human rights and democracy in the new democracies. And it is that weak institutions within the judiciary, with the following discrimination of minorities and other deferred groups, are the review melodies in many of the newest Member States. Thorbjørn Jagland, as Secretary-General, has been very enthusiastic about getting the EU involved in this work. It is therefore of great value when the EU has now decided to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights and finance the work of the Action Plans aimed at the new democracies. The Council of Europe is now in the midst of a required reform process. I use the word "required" because it's not always a plank run to change political structures. Nevertheless, when the reform process is given relatively broad support, it is because the Council of Europe’s important work will become more relevant and targeted afterwards. The success of the OSCE and the EU in its work will definitely be an important contribution to one of the most important objectives of European policy, namely to ensure peace and stability in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1218	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark raised a problem which we also discussed after the debate last year, namely whether these debates are too ‘retrospective’ and too little ‘forward-looking’. It's an important issue. I agree that the meeting with the Heads of Delegation that the Minister of Foreign Affairs took the initiative was useful, and that it should be repeated – perhaps we could do so in the Storting itself. The representative of the Højbrätten addressed this in a letter to the presidency, and this has led to some mention of what lies ahead of the various delegations in the annual reports. But it will vary to what extent these bodies are discussing what to set up as a programme for the coming year. I don't think the least of them do. But it is true that we do not have any discussion about our participation and the issues raised in the various parliamentary committees, in this Chamber, in the form we have in the annual reports. At the same time, however, the issues raised in the various bodies are part of the ongoing political debate. When we discuss EU and EEA matters twice a year, there are issues that we catch up with and bring with us into the EFTA Parliamentary Committee, which deals with matters we have just discussed earlier today. The Nordic Council is perhaps the prime example of how national policies are integrated into Nordic cooperation. And the same thing: when the Council of Europe discusses human rights issues, we sometimes have discussions about this related to other issues in the Storting. So in a way, it's not right that we never discuss those issues, but it's done under other headings. To the extent that we are able to take care of Norwegian interests, in particular where there are no different party political disagreements – which of course are also included in the debates in the international forums – it is ultimately a personal responsibility for us in these delegations to have an overview of what are Norwegian positions, and what are issues that we should be careful to raise in the various forums. As far as the Western Union is concerned – as I understand it now – has disappeared, including on the parliamentary side – I took part in the COFAC meeting in Budapest, a forum where the leaders of the defence committees in the parliaments of the EU countries gather. There was this on the agenda, and Eldegard also pointed out, it is for some forum – either a conference or a forum – and there is no doubt that NATO members who are not members of the EU will also be represented there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1229	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3-10. [[See pages 4186 and 4187]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1246	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from the Minister for the Environment and Development within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1255	This spring we have discussed several representative proposals on more transparency in aid and work against corruption. I think that's good. It is important that the Storting closely monitor how the money we grant is used, and that they go to what they are actually going to do. Before I go to the matter itself, I think it is right to mention the job done by the Norwegian aid organisations. They are incredibly important and central partners of the Norwegian authorities. We know that they are doing a huge amount of work in the poorest parts of the world – a work that we in the Biggest need to know to appreciate and be grateful for doing. We also need to be aware that the organisations work hard to detect and prevent corruption. It is an incredibly demanding job that they should be commended for coming far. So to the matter itself: today we are discussing a proposal to require the large Norwegian aid organisations to publish an annual report on corruption. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State has explained a great deal of the work going on today. He probably gets closer to it himself, so I'll just mention a few things: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs carries out continuous and systematic work to prevent, detect, report, manage and inform about corruption and maladministration — a work such as: was strongly strengthened by the establishment of the Central Control Unit in 2007. The Ministry also gives an overview of all cases of financial misstatements, and a report on them will be published during the year, which Stortinget is probably looking forward to reading. Furthermore, clear requirements both from the Ministry and Norad are imposed on beneficiaries of grants for measures to prevent and inform about maladministration. In addition, there is also an active dialogue with the organisations about this, and I would like to underline what the Council of State writes in the letter: ‘The Ministry’s impression is that organisations are positive for more transparency in this field and that several of them consider how they can make the most of this information.’ That's good. With regard to the proposal to impose reporting requirements on organisations, which is promoted in the suspension by the Right and the Advance Party, the Council of State states in the letter to the Committee that the basis for such reporting must be clarified. It is an overall committee which is of the opinion that the basis of law must be clearly assessed. Where the majority of the Committee does not support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right as it stands today, it shall act in particular. if just so: the basis of law. No one in the Committee disagrees with the intention of this proposal itself. On the contrary, the Committee actually says in its opinion that it expects the intention of the proposal to be respected. Norway is one of the world’s leading countries in the fight against corruption in aid. And we are precisely because it is important to defend what taxpayers’ money is spent on – but perhaps even more so, that Norwegian aid is used in the best possible way, and that it has the best quality possible. Because that is what this is really all about, that the means of assistance should come to those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1284	There is an important issue here that the proposers have raised and debated. It should be completely unnecessary to explain why corruption works to the destructive levels of economic development, not just in developing countries. Corruption leads to resource abuse and waste, making it difficult to establish new businesses, resulting in individual countries being robbed of money and other resources that could otherwise contribute to better living conditions for most people. This is precisely why it is so important to detect corruption, monitor it and fight it. Corruption exists in all countries, including Norway. However, in the western world, in OECD countries, corruption appears to be less frequent than in developing countries, much less so. And here we are at the heart of the matter. When corruption is widespread, it is almost impossible to start economic development. And if it gets started, then it's just a tiny little shiver at the very top of the apparatus of power that enjoys it. In Africa, corruption is everywhere. I myself have experienced corruption on a close-knit basis in Africa. There is reason to put the strongest possible spotlight on corruption in the developing countries of Norway. Norway spends 27 billion dollars. kr annually on u-help, and the results are not consistent with the effort. It is so bad that even Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in a speech in the UN last year demanded that taxpayers now have to see the results of the aid. Unfortunately, much of the assistance runs into the sand, the money ends up with corrupt leaders instead of speeding up the development of wealth and well-being. The Group of the Progressive Party has met with many of the voluntary organisations involved in the Norwegian aid and development work. They also experience corruption. Sometimes they have to adapt, at least in part, and it may be interesting if these organizations share their experiences with us. For me, the fact that the government parties actively oppose creating more transparency about corruption is completely incomprehensible. But I think this is primarily the bottom line of an arrogance that lies in the fact that the government parties with three votes more than the opposition can allow themselves to ignore all initiatives from others. Here they make a tab. The proposal in the committee on a report on corruption by organisations using Norwegian tax money in developing countries is not to be seen as a mistrust proposal to the government. I can assure you that if the government parties here vote in favour of the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Right, the government is equally safe. They'll have to decide for themselves. But voting against a proposal to monitor corruption in developing countries seems completely meaningless to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1302	The size agrees, but we're different. Too many things happen. Let me go into the essence here. Corruption is evil, corruption prevents growth, and corruption keeps people in poverty. Openness, on the other hand, leads to debate, it leads to misrepresentation, it leads to better than they would otherwise be, and it legitimizes what we do. When we put forward a proposal that is as round as this proposal is, that we want the large aid organisations to provide corruption reports in line with the Church's Emergency Aid, which has also been announced by the Red Cross and the Refugee Aid, we would have believed and expected that there were proposals that would have been voted through in the Stortinget. When assisting the large aid organisations makes a ringing call, all of them are in favour of the Right’s proposal. Nevertheless, there is a minority that now seems to be voting for the proposal. Norway gives about 27 billion dollars. kr in development aid. We see that 3.5 of the billions are managed by non-governmental organisations and foundations. That's the 2009 numbers. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision comes with the following: ‘The Court of Auditors has repeatedly criticised the Norwegian aid administration for a lack of focus on anti-corruption, in particular on prevention. The discussion of aid corruption is often abstract and general.» The whole intention of the proposal is to take this further, just when one knows that openness actually leads to being more careful with regard to corruption when adopting projects. Transparency means that it is more difficult for those who intend to commit corruption, to end up putting money in their own pocket. I think this again is an outcome of misunderstood loyalty – misunderstood loyalty to a majority government – that no proposal made by the opposition should be given a majority. I want to take the strongest distance from it. I think it's a disease sign that you've seen too many times over the six years, and it's perhaps one of the worst democratic outbursts that it's just allowed to break. There is no problem in agreeing with all the case rapporteurs, there is no problem in agreeing with what has come from information from the Council of State to the Committee, but it is very problematic to agree that they say no, just wait and see, this is going to be incorporated, or it is already incorporated. So be aware – even the majority of the population – that these are proposals that are not just seen, but that we stand together about, and that are actually being implemented. And it can be implemented quickly. The aid organisations themselves say that this is something they can do in a very short time. It delights me at least that large, heavy, important organizations like the Red Cross and the Refugee Aid already, regardless of the outcome of today's voting, will present this type of reports. Let me conclude by saying that the Church's emergency aid deserves a great reward for having chosen to go to the front. I understand that for some organisations it is almost frightening to provide reports that would reveal corruption in their own organisation. But it's really an honorary testimony to the Church's emergency aid that they have the courage to do so, and it makes the Church's emergency aid stand even better in the discussion related to effect and measurable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1324	The opposition has to be a little bit of a bit of a bit for real things to criticize the government and the majority of the population for when they choose to pretend that there is a significant disagreement at this point. On the contrary, I intend to implement the Right-wing proposal. I think the Right proposal is good, and the government is fully prepared to implement this. We've had a meeting with all the big volunteer organizations. They responded, which included Skovholt Gitmark, to such a proposal and were prepared to do so. But we're dependent on doing an exercise first, and that's looking at the legal basis for this. And what we've come into it is that it's not a legal basis to impose such disclosure on the existing agreements that have already been concluded, but it's a full opportunity to do so for all new agreements. So what I am prepared to do in relation to all existing agreements is clearly to say to the voluntary organizations that we expect – we cannot legally force you – that you are making this up in line with the view of the Storting. These are organisations that live by trust. They live by trust from donors out there, because even if they get a lot of money from the state, they all get money from donors. They live by the confidence of the Storting and the people, because they get money from us. Trustable organisations must do what the Storting has asked them to do, even if they are not legally obliged to do so. With regard to all new agreements concluded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norad from now on, we are fully committed to doing what the Right Party and the Advance Party here want us to do – to incorporate a requirement in these agreements to publish an annual report on maladministration and on the organisation's work on anti-corruption. So we should really celebrate the day as a day where we agree, and where the government does what was an idea from the Right, but as the whole Storting agrees that we should be done, rather than pretending that we are very, very disagreed. Let me just say a few things in addition, and that's that I'm concerned that we're not now imposing a tough, bureaucratic workload on the organizations. The starting point is that this is something we're asking all organizations to do. We have large organisations like the Church's Emergency Aid and the Red Cross, but there are also small organisations that have aid projects. There must be a reasonable relationship between anti-corruption work and the money spent, so that no more money is spent on anti-corruption than on the very purpose, whether it be health or education. When we talk about a report on this, it can, for example, be an on-line orientation so that the public is fully informed of the organisation’s actions. But yes, we want to introduce such a practice in line with what the Right has proposed. Then it is also important to say that when organisations publish material about this, it is of course important that we do not expose alerts through the material and not unnecessarily provide the basis for speculations that may so distrust of individuals, or that may be false or on a failing basis. We're going to have full transparency in this area. Of course, we also need to respect general standards. Finally, I would like to say to the Progress Party that no, it is not that countries with great corruption cannot evolve. Even China itself does not claim that China has little corruption. The Chinese top management declares anti-corruption as one of its main concerns. There has never been any place in world history such a fundamentally fast economic growth as in China in the last three decades failed in corruption. This does not mean that it could not have been even higher without corruption – corruption is harmful, as both Myhre and Skovholt Gitmark were involved. But it's not that corruption in a society makes it impossible to have economic growth. Even in the United States in those stages where the United States had the largest economic growth, it is likely to be a lot more corruption, even mafia activity, than it is today. So it's not that it prevents growth, or that it makes growth impossible, but it's a negative factor that makes it possible to get more growth without it. Then I will repeat what I have said so many times to the Advancement Party: when the Advancement Party itself grants 19 billion. kr for assistance, it would be nice occasionally to hear a positive word about the assistance. We were once again told that everything is bad in this area, and that the money goes to corrupt dictators. There is no evidence that Norwegian aid money goes to corrupt dictators. And now, in recent times, we have even been told that a dwindling majority of the people, even a clear majority of the electorate of the Progress Party, seem to be a good thing. So maybe it was time to be the party for most people in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1344	This is a day we should celebrate, said the Council of State, and don't pretend we disagree on anything we agree on. Then it seems all the more funny that the Right Party and the Advance Party stand alone to promote this proposal and get the entire rest of the Stortinget, including the Council of State party, against them. This is a simple proposal, it is concrete, and that is often what we have missed in the corruption debate. Often, the proposals are influenced by the fact that we want to do something about the problem, but lack the concrete means to achieve the objectives. In the European Commission of the United Kingdom on 19 May, the Council of States raised a question of anti-corruption work in relation to the forestry effort: "And as I have said a thousand times, if anyone has any views and ideas on how we can further reduce the risk of corruption, it shall not be up to us to put them into life." It is a statement that I think sounds good and, once again, the more incomprehensible it is why these parties then vote against our proposal, which they now agree with, in the Stortinget. The question is, why hasn't the Council of State clarified the legal basis before, so that it was possible to be rowed enough to vote for one of the opposition's proposals in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1356	It took some time to clarify the legal basis, for which I now tried to do something precisely – that is, what you can legally impose, and what you can't legally impose. But the reality of this is that we are legally imposing for all the new cases and for all the practical realities it is going to have for all the old agreements, because I dare to be quite sure that no serious assistance organization after that will dare to say that no, we are the one organisation that is waiting for us to be legally ordered to do this. These are organisations that live by people's trust, the trust of donors, the trust of the state and taxpayers. So I'm sure everyone's going to do it. Otherwise, there is a very, very long tradition under changing governments that the Storting does not oblige a government to do something that the government has said it should do. And the bulk of the population follows this tradition, just as it was done under the Willoch Governments and the Bondevik Governments and all the governments on the Right were in it, where the government was not required to do what the government says it should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1363	The cord shift is over. The President would point out that such a practice has been somewhat varied over the years under changing governments and opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1368	There are some debates that are very exciting, and then it's nice to get in from other committees, but it's not always as easy to combine with committee meetings. So my post was a little later than expected. The problem of corruption is a scourge for many countries — not least in poor parts of the world. This is not just a matter of aid, it concerns both central government, business, the media and civil society. The problems of corruption permeate many areas. When other resource-rich countries are locked in permanent poverty, it is often linked to the poor governance of these countries and the poor development of democracy. There are a number of conditions that allow corruption to spread like a social tumor. Corruption flourishes more easily when communities do not have a free press, and when there is no transparency about the management of natural resources and government finances. Corruption is rife when there is a lack of a living civil society that is truly independent and can be a critical voice to the rulers. Corruption is easier when societies lack an effective national audit and courts are not competent and independent of the regime. There are not enough subtle control measures. It is important to strengthen more societal forces that can contribute to the balance of power and to an unfair and independent control of the exercise of power by governments and the management of money and other values in business and society, too. The fight against corruption is an important part of the fight against poverty. And that fight we have to put on a broad scale, because it is not just a matter of assistance through non-governmental organisations. Therefore, by the Christian People's Party, we have addressed not only the reporting of cases of corruption detected in the projects of non-governmental organisations, but also a similar reporting of cases detected in projects of private business in developing countries. We are pleased that a unanimous committee is now asking the government to assess this. Just because we are working for effective assistance, we have worked for a long time by the Christian People's Party for a stronger fight against corruption. Former Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson made this one of his heart issues – both in direct contact with developing countries and in international forums such as the UN and the World Bank. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs now has a wide range of anti-corruption measures. The Ministry now has an overview of all cases where there is a warning of financial maladministration. That's good. We look forward to publishing the first report on the final cases in 2011. We also believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should clarify the basis of its jurisdiction in order to require organisations to publish annual reports on maladministration relating to publicly received funds from the Ministry and Norad. Several measures are in progress. We therefore expect the intention of the draft representative to be respected. Both commercial investment, trade relations and assistance are abused by corrupt people. That's why we have to fight corruption in all of these arenas. So through this assistance, we have better governance programmes, to strengthen the national audit, to develop civil society and the judiciary. The pure anti-corruption measures are just a piece of the necessary, wide bet. The State Council of Solheim stated a few years ago that Norway has been naive, and that our assistance has helped to make corruption possible. It's easier to say this than to prevent corruption. At the same time, State Council Solheim has recognised that the ongoing investment in climate and forest projects can also lead to abuse and corruption. Whether it's naive to make large value transfers when there's no guarantee against mischief is a game of words. There is no guarantee against corruption attempts, nor here in Norway, nor, of course, in projects in the world’s poorest countries. The point is that we must consistently have a high awareness of the danger of such mishaps, and we must have an effective strategy to combat corruption on a broad front.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1401	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1404	I am addressing the proposal on which the Right is associated with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1409	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1412	I asked for the floor on the grounds that the Council of State, Solheim, believed that there was no "fuck," as he said, of proof that Norwegian aid has benefited corrupt dictators in developing countries. I think there are very few who agree with the Solheim Council – examples that Nicaragua, Zimbabwe, Uganda and Ethiopia should be sufficient. In addition, much of the Norwegian development budget is used as so-called budget support. In other words, it is left to the national authorities — no matter how corrupt and dictatorial they may be — to their discretion. You can also be further surprised. I also very much appreciate the sensitivity of the Council of States to the proposal of the minority in the Committee, the Advance Party and the Right, but it will be a problem to achieve credibility at the moment when it is known that a proposal that reads: ‘The government is asking that all major Norwegian aid organisations publish an annual report on corruption’ has been voted down by the Stortinget. Thus, on 24 May 2011, this proposal will be defeated by the Stortinget if the government parties do not take the floor at the last minute and vote in favour of the Progress Party and the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1419	I do not think that is the time and reason for the broad debate on aid and corruption. I just notice that the Progress Party is constantly spending all its time looking into doubt and seeing all the difficulties and claiming with a wide pen that there is corruption in it, rather than justifying to its own voters something that you choose to spend 19 billion. kr per. It really has to be tossing blues in the eyes of the voters to spend $19,000 million. kr on something that you can never get up on the Storting chair and tell about the positive effect of. This is my main challenge to the Progress Party. There are, of course, cases of corruption in Norwegian aid. That is why we have introduced so much stricter rules than we had, but broadly speaking, that Norwegian assistance goes to corrupt dictators, is what I take a long way away from. Then I believe that we are in a rather unhappy situation when it comes to voting on a proposal that has the support of 169 large-scale representatives. The president, with the support of the archives and others, can probably carry out a longer history of how this has been done in the past, something that normally does not belong to me as a member of the government. It is normal practice for the opposition to draw up a proposal once they have fulfilled the whole proposal. Here it is not that the proposal is partially implemented, but the whole proposal – exactly what the opposition is asking for – will be done by the government. Finally, I just want to add that we want to use this opportunity to inform you that during the summer, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will present a report on the mishaps that have been dealt with since I set up my own central control unit in 2007. This report will address the whole range of malaise, including what has been reported to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by non-governmental organisations. The report will be published at government.no, and it will be updated every quarter after this first publication.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1430	The President will only note that the Storting expresses itself with binding effect for a government by decision. Settings can be interpreted, and this has been done with great boldness over the years, but decisions are binding. The decision will be taken on this matter in the future. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4187]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1450	Food is a policy, and food prices have always had a major impact on world policy. If you look at a little bit in the history books, there have been many great historical upheavals with a background in food prices. So I want to start with a historical review, a review. First to the fall of the Roman Empire. It was a huge famine before the Roman Empire fell. 90 pst. of the people of Western Europe died of food shortages and hunger. Some of the cases of the Roman Empire are explained with background in this. If we go to South America and the Mayan civilization, one of the most advanced societies known then, is also one of the explanations why they disappeared, hunger, drought and crop failure. If we go to Europe and a little bit closer in time, to 1789 and the French revolution, in the 1780s, there was a huge volcanic eruption in Iceland that caused uneasiness and crop failure in European agriculture, and thus political unrest and struggle for bread. One of the explanations that has been used in the French revolution is precisely crop failure. Let's go to Ireland and go to Barack Obama, who emigrated to the United States in the mid 1800s. Then there was potato disease, drought, and crop failure in Irish agriculture with subsequent hunger, and thus great emigration. If you look at many of the great historical events, they're related to food, food prices, and hunger. More recently, we can see Ethiopia in 1972 and 1973. Then the regime fell after hunger and disaster. In Tunisia and Egypt, we have seen this year that food prices also now have a very high and relevant significance. Egypt is the world's largest importer of wheat. Wheat prices have risen by 70 pst. during the last year. Of course, the revolutions that we have seen in Egypt and Tunisia have many and complex reasons, which are for all the other major changes. But one of the reasons is that when food prices increase, and food quality gets worse, there is anxiety and discontent, which in this context has contributed to a revolution. Food prices play an enormous role in international policy and in political development. We see more and more instability, and we see that food prices are becoming increasingly affected by drought and floods with hunger and migration as a result. World food prices have fallen steadily and have been expected to rise rapidly in recent years. As food prices increase, the number of people who are starving in the world is increasing. According to UNICEF, the number of people starved in the world increased from 850 million. to 950 million. in the course of one year, in 2008. Today it is starved approx. 1 billion. people in the world. According to the UN, 16,000 children die from hunger or hunger-related causes every day. This is an enormous humanitarian problem, which unfortunately we hear too little about. In the United Kingdom, following the adoption by the United Nations of the resolution facilitating the Libyan intervention, we have had a debate on humanitarian intervention to prevent human rights violations. That debate is important and necessary. My wish is that there should be as much debate about what needs to be done to stop all the suffering that comes from lack of food, because it is no less dramatic or less terrible to lose one's loved ones because of lack of food than to lose them because of war. In 2008, food prices reached a preliminary peak leading to riots and unrest in more than 30 countries. The protests took place all over the world. In April 2008, people in Haiti demonstrated an increase in food prices of between 50 and 100 pst. within one year. In Mexico, 75 000 people marched in protest in February 2007 because of increased tortilla prices. In North Korea, rare street protests took place in March 2008 due to a reduction in mattresses of 60 pst. In the Philippines, Thailand, Russia, Peru and Indonesia, on 1 May 2008 turbulence marked thousands of protests at increased food prices. Because of the rise in food prices, more than 100 million people were pushed into deep poverty. Many had to cut out one of today's meals – from three to two, from two to one, and – worst of all – from one to none. Food prices today are higher than they were in the food crisis in 2008. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, FAO, reports that the price of food is 36 pst. higher in 2011 than in 2010. The FAO also reports that international cereal prices have risen by 71 pst. since April 2010. These are alarming numbers. The price rise we are witnessing today has complex reasons: increased oil prices are one – food and oil prices follow each other very closely. Other reasons are the climate problems in food production due to floods and droughts, fires in Russia last year, competition between food and biofuels, speculation and the need for more food because of more people and wealth growth. For example: China has gone from being a net exporter to being a net importer of food, and when people go from eating rice to eating meat or drinking beer, food consumption goes up considerably. I don't want to go into all the reasons now, but I want to say a little bit about the problems associated with speculation. After the Dot com bubble burst in 2001 and the housing market in the United States dried up, brokers around the world found new hunting grounds. One of these was the food market. The UN Special Rapporteur for the Right to Food believes that speculation is a cause of the sharp increase in food prices. This has benefited international speculators and hit the poorest in the poorest countries. Unfortunately, the parallels to the speculation in the US housing market are striking. The United States and the EU have taken steps to regulate speculation in raw materials, but this market still appears to be highly underregulated. It primarily has consequences for one billion people who are starving in the world. The UN Special Rapporteur comes in a report from September last year with more advice on how to avoid food prices being further driven up by speculators who have no other option than their own profits. He proposes increasing regulation of derivatives trading, limiting who can trade food, to qualified investors and traders and, last but not least, the establishment of national and regional stocks of cereals. As I mentioned earlier, the crisis is hitting the poorest. We in Norway use about 11 pst. of our household income on food, while many households in developing countries use between 70 and 80 pst. of their income on food. It goes without saying that the poor then notice the price rise much more than what we do. But that's also another factor. It's that we buy finished goods, and very much of the price of our goods comes from processing, while the poor buys the commodity and processes it itself. So an increase in the commodity price gives much more direct results on the poor's diet than it gives on the rich's diet, because we're using processed foods. The centre party believes that there are four main pillars that are important for increased food safety: trade policy, that an international trade policy ensures that every country has a real right and obligation to produce its own food agricultural aid, that aid is used to develop local and regional food production and processing, so that value creation is provided locally – it will provide security of food supply and protection against fluctuations in the international commodity market, stronger regulation of international trade in food, so that price-driven speculation does not build up regional and national stocks of cereals, as this will act as a buffer in the commodity market and thus create more stable prices; In 2000, all the world's leaders gathered in eight thousand years. For a thousand-year target No. One stated that the goal was to halve the share of hunger in the world — a large and moral right goal to set. Unfortunately, progress is in the wrong direction. Therefore, I have two main questions to the Council of State: How does the Council of State assess the international food situation? And what does he think Norway can contribute to the UN's Millennium Goal No. 1 can be reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1506	I guess I could say that it was a post to my taste, with an exciting historical overview of the political significance of hunger and food shortages in many situations. Let me add: In the ancient Chinese tradition, the emperor had so-called the mandate of heaven. That is, if things went well in the country, you would expect that God and those cancers were behind. But the sure sign that the emperor no longer had the mandate of heaven was that there were major natural disasters or famines in the country. Then it was in a way legitimate to rebel, for then it had proved in practice that the emperor did not have the mandate of the gods that they thought he had. So that hunger can lead to political instability is raised above any doubt. That it leads to unfathomable human suffering, is equally obvious, and it's completely irresponsible and unacceptable that in a world with all the technical possibilities, with unfathomable abundance and wealth, it still lives one billion people with different degrees of chronic hunger. It's totally unacceptable. Let me go into the numbers a little bit. It is an area where it is difficult to be accurate, but the figures we managed to reach in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are from the Food Price Index of the UN Food Organisation, which shows that global food prices are now overall higher than in the 2008 food price crisis. Figures from April 2011 show a decrease in the price index of 2.9 pst., but it is the first time in eight months that it goes downwards. It may be a sign that the top has been reached, but it can of course be a random turn as well. The UN does not believe that this is an acute food crisis. So it's not a dramatic deterioration in the underlying trends, but that's what we can call a chronic food crisis where nearly one billion people suffer from hunger and where one child dies of hunger every six seconds -- it's probably just another way to say the same thing that the interpellant said. Now the picture is a little bit more nuanced, because there is especially sugar and vegetable oil that pulls up the food price. The most strategic products for the world’s nutritional situation, rice and wheat, have not been hit as hard as in 2008. The price of rice is 50 pst. below the peak levels in 2008 and 3 pst. lower than the price at the same time last year. The wheat price is 21 pst. lower. There have been good crops in many countries in 2010, especially in Africa, and there are low and stable cereal prices in West Africa and southern Africa, but there have been increasing prices in East Africa due to drought. However, the situation may, obviously, deteriorate very rapidly. There are serious regional differences and differences between countries, but the overall situation can also be exacerbated. The UN indicator and projection indicate that it is 3.5 pst. higher cereal production in 2011 than in 2010, but it is highly uncertain whether it will be sufficient to fill the stocks. As Schlagsvold Vedum also says: Politics is important. However, the policy adopted by some countries, with large export restrictions, helped to contribute to the crisis in the years after 2008. The speculation that we see at future food prices creates greater and more unpredictable price changes. It is in itself a joyous development that so many people, as a result of good politics in China and many other places, have become much richer and therefore demand much more meat. This is a major improvement, but also a problem in this context. Let's not forget that when the People's Republic of China was formed in 1949, it was estimated that the average diet in the country was 99 pst. vegetable. So meat was about non-existent. I remember being in a Chinese province where we were served fish as the last right. I said, "Why?" Yes, because it showed that you were so saturated that you could throw the fish. That was the greatest sign of wealth. Meat couldn't even the richest at all imagine having, so it could throw fish showed how incredibly rich you were. So the fact that hundreds of millions of Chinese eat meat, of course, contributes to this picture. Then it's a frightening phenomenon, and it's that while in Asia there's essentially an increasingly efficient production on some declining area as a result of urbanization and other things, in Africa over ten years there has been a declining production on an increasing area. Land use has increased, but production has been reduced. This is, of course, a totally unacceptable situation. In the big news that Stortinget has addressed today in our – Towards greener development – the government presents a number of measures in terms of what it wants to do in this area, and let me summarise some of them. We cannot only influence the really big trends. The most crucial questions, as I see it, are getting more efficient production and getting a larger area used. There are still large areas, for example: in the former Soviet Union — in many of the republics there — and in Africa, which can be used for agricultural production, but it is important that it is used effectively. So, of course, it's beneficial that we stick to the lower parts of the organic chain and eat as much grain and vegetables as possible. But it is limited, after all, what Norway can do to influence these global phenomena. What we can do, to mention some things, is: we're going to increase support for food security and agricultural development in developing countries, that's part of the big message. In particular, we are investing in climate-friendly agriculture in Africa. I myself have been and seen – both in Zambia and Malawi – the so-called preservation agriculture, which is using modern agricultural technologies, such as agriculture. fertilizers, but also apply traditional techniques, such as laying a lot of axe, etc. rats on the ground. There are measures that have been shown to dramatically increase production. Second, we go in a ten-year period of 50 million. dollar — an initiative to develop climate-resilient food plants. Climate change means that agriculture needs to be reformed in many places, and under the so-called Global Crop Diversity Trust – those who also operate this seed stock on Svalbard – new varieties will be made available to farmers, and this is done in cooperation with the advisory group on international agricultural research, to which we are also a major contributor. And then, thirdly, we go into so-called green growth corridors in many developing countries. It's been working with the private sector. Tanzania’s president, Kikwete, wrote a separate article about this in the British press, together with Yara’s chief, Haslestad. It shows the importance of Tanzania when a president writes – together with a director in a foreign country – an article on this growth corridor, which aims to get fertilizers and inputs into African agriculture in Tanzania and to get the product out for sale, creating the market that will allow farmers to invest in agriculture and produce more over time. The Norwegian climate and forest effort is also an important contribution to food safety. Many people – a billion – live in or near forest. It is important for their livelihoods, and the ecosystems of forests are also important for agricultural production. So Norway is in favour of the necessary reforms of the UN Food Organisation and the World Food Programme, in particular the first of these needs major reforms, but we are also important contributors to them, so that they can do their job of coordinating international work in this area. Then, in the main message, we focus more on the prevention of natural disasters. Nature itself is the best first-line defence for natural disasters, and natural disasters often involve – lastingly – putting agriculture back into an area. Ultimately, hunger in the world is not about technology and land alone – it's about it too – but it's also about power. The vast majority of those who cannot eat are either women or children, and there are women who account for most of the production in small-scale agriculture that carry much of the poor part of the world. There is no country in the world where there is food shortage as such, but there are some who get access to food and not others. Very often, marginalised groups, as a leader in a country does not see what needs, are lacking food. Then, in the worry about increased food prices, we also have to remember that in principle increased food prices are a good thing – I guess I shouldn't spend time convincing the Center Party about that. High food prices are, of course, the prerequisite for long-term, sustainable investment in more efficient agriculture. Although high food prices, especially for the poor in cities and the poor in rural areas without access to land, are a major problem, we need, over time, high but stable food prices. It gives rise to the investments that make us get up production. But the swinging, speculative price level that we now have is, as the interpellant says, a very big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1544	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to make some comments. What gives rise to a fundamental concern is the fluctuation that we have seen in commodity prices over the last few years and the instability that it creates. The centre party is extremely concerned about the fluctuations in commodity prices because it affects those who have the least, most severely. And we've seen that very clearly in 2008 and now in 2011. It creates riots, and it's just made it less food for the poor. No one can, no matter what interest you should have, rejoice over it. So everyone has to do what you can to get more stable prices and secure national and regional markets, which makes you more independent of international fluctuations in the commodity market. To depend on it creates an unstable situation. That's why we're engaged in the right and duty to produce our own food, and that we should also be able to process our own food. Then there's a point until I want to get inside. If you look at population development, we're now at the base of 7 billion people. By 2050, according to the UN, we will be well over 9 billion people. And then we see that where today there's shortage and decline in food production, where population growth is going to be the largest, that is, on the African continent. The combination of today's challenges and population growth and climate change that make growing conditions on the African continent more difficult is very problematic. That is why I would just like to reiterate the challenge to the Council of State around it with agricultural assistance and assistance in relation to climate-friendly agriculture, which was one of the main requirements of Cancún. Because when you look at the projections at world temperature, and see which areas are affected, it is not Norway or Western Europe that will be hit in its food production, it is the countries that are now importing food from the north that will face even greater challenges in their food production in the future. What thoughts does the Council of State make around it? Finally, a problem when we first have the opportunity to do that. We are now using a lot of EEA funds to export the Norwegian tripartite model, because we believe it is a good organisation of Norwegian working life. Norwegian agriculture is one of the best organized in the world. And some of the main success of Norwegian agriculture has been that it has been safe to dispose of its goods, and that ownership of the entire value chain has been achieved through cooperative organisation. One of the major challenges in many developing countries is that one does not have a safe deposit for its products, and that very much of the products thus rot or deteriorate during storage. Does the Council of State see that the way in which the movement of agricultural products is organised in the Norwegian cooperative model can also be an export article, just as funds have been used to export the Norwegian tripartite model — as the cooperative model ensures local and regional ownership and better processing of raw materials?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1555	Let me first say that we fully agree that the kind of huge fluctuations in food prices that you have seen are harmful. It doesn't contribute to the stable growth of production that we need, and it has a lot of the effects on poor people that Tryful Battle Violence Vedum brings out. But I'm just warning you that stable very low food prices are a good thing, because you sometimes get the impression in the debate that that's the goal. It is clear that in the short term, poor people in urban and rural areas may have an interest in it, but it will not stimulate the necessary investments in agriculture that we also need. We want to look at the cooperative model, but at the same time we need to remember that some of the assumptions that it has been so successful in Norway are not present in many developing countries. In a good number of developing countries, cooperation has ended up being one of the things we talked about a lot in the previous debate, bodies for inefficient production, and with great corruption, because it does not have the foundation of well-organised people who can contribute to the functioning of cooperative institutions. But here it's not possible to have one answer for the whole world, you have to have an assessment of the individual case. So I think it's very useful to look at what actually works. In connection with the food summit in Rome, I asked a lot of experts: what is the success story? In Africa, Malawi is an obvious success story. I visited Malawi in 2006. More than half the population in Malawi received international food aid, and there were so-called feeding centers all over the country, which were quite heartbreaking places. Agricultural production has now increased sharply, and Malawi has even exported food. But if you look at it globally, the answer was from everyone I asked about what is the international success story, one country: Vietnam. That's the place to go. Vietnam has gone from being a major agricultural importer in the 1980s and early 1990s to being the world's second largest rice exporter. So you could ask, what's the reason why they've done that? The sum of it is four to five measures that I will not claim are completely universal, but quite close to universal. They have guaranteed ownership of land. It is not life-long as in Norway, but it is in a hundred-year perspective that farmers can invest. They have secured roads so that it is possible to get the agricultural products out. They have provided good advice to agriculture in these areas and have ensured fertilizers and inputs. They have in short, as I have tried to say in some international debates, bet on the centre party farmer: making small farmers big. I think there are exceptions to this, too, that the global picture is that industrial agriculture has not been a major success. Often there will be very little area intensity in agriculture there. Small-scale agriculture is not something you can go on with. Small scale must be large scaled. So what it's all about is making the little farmers bigger and giving them the opportunity to produce, and that's what Vietnam has done with great success.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1568	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an incredibly important topic. Food security and the UN's Millennium Goal Number One on eradicating extreme poverty and starvation are clearly worthy of the attention of the Stortinge. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that the number of people starving in the world is well over 900 million. In 2009, the figure was just over 1 billion, but despite a decline, the number of people who are starving is persistently high. 98 pst. the undernourished world lives in developing countries. In sub-Saharan Africa, the number is as high as 30 pst. by the population. The UN Health Organization estimates that 178 million kids have been hit worldwide. Racing numbers might have no purpose in itself, but I think it's important to get a little perspective on what we're talking about. High food prices hit the poorest people in the world. The 2008 food price war of course struck very hard, but the problem of people not having access to food, or affording to buy food, is more than that. It's about structures, and it's about distribution. It is about distribution between north and south, but also about inland distribution. The poverty problem makes people unable to get food. They don't have purchasing power for it, and it's ironic to think that there's really enough food produced in the world, but people can't afford to buy it or access it. We in our part of the world live in abundance, while others actually starve. The resources are unfairly distributed. The world’s population is expected to rise to more than 9 billion people in 2050, as well as increasing pressure on natural resources. In other words, we are facing both a poverty problem and an environmental problem, as I see it. 75 pst. by the poor of the world living in rural areas. They depend on agriculture to survive. Climate change may lead to changes in rainfall and temperature, which in turn may threaten food safety. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation stressed that frequent changes and intense weather conditions have a direct impact on food and on food supply, with the consequences it has. It's not easy to reach the UN's thousand-year target number one. halving the number of people living on less than $1 a day, until 2015, is a demanding task for the international community. It is not easy to ensure that all people have access to food. It requires a number of comprehensive measures, as well as structural changes. It requires, of course, funding for assistance, helping to achieve a fairer trading system in which the least developed countries have their interests safeguarded, efforts are being made to prevent speculation in food prices, to contribute to increased food production, and to step up efforts to prevent negative changes due to climate change internationally. Of course, this is going to be a very macro, but that's what this is all about. And then Norway has to do its part of the effort. The Minister for Development was talking about several things. I believe it is important that we in Norway use our resources effectively, and that we use our influence in international bodies in a good way. It is quite clear that Norway needs to have an even greater pressure on food security and the development of agriculture in developing countries, while continuing to work on climate and forest. We need to use our positions in the United Nations system, for example. in the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation, in such a way that the UN funds are more targeted. We need to continue with better coordination of the UN organisations, and we need to maintain support for the UN food programme, in order to mention something. In addition, we should have a strong women's focus. When women represent the production of between 60 and 80 pst. of all food consumed locally in sub-Saharan Africa, we must ensure that these women's opportunities are strengthened. We need to work to ensure that they have the opportunity and rights to, for example: to own and inherit land and to obtain a greater share of its return. It could lead to significant local food production, which in turn would help reduce global hunger. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation estimates that if women and men had the same opportunities and rights, the crops could increase by up to 30 pst. The rights of women are therefore also an important dimension that we must share in this debate. Finally, I would like to thank the interpellant once again for addressing this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1589	I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting this matter on the agenda. I believe the Central Party and the Advance Party agree that food is important. So much longer, the food policy positions – and the consensus about them – probably don't extend. In addition, I am not completely familiar with the theories that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, initially contributed to the development of food prices in the world. It's right that, for example, cereal prices have risen, but that is because they had fallen sharply in advance. And the price of e.g. Today, North American wheat is approx. half of what it was at the beginning of 2008. In 2009, we had a sharp decline in wheat prices. The rise that has occurred in 2010 and 2011 has been no more than bringing wheat prices to what is – I kept saying – the normal level. I may be more familiar with the contributions of the Council of State in terms of food production and profitability. It goes without saying that when food prices change in a free market, rising food prices will stimulate production and increase production to meet increased demand. The councils were within the old Soviet states. In 2008, I traveled by car through large parts of Ukraine, and quite rightly – as the Council of State says – there are huge areas that were previously used for food production, which are now fallow, and are actually being forested. It might be a good news for the government council, Solheim, but for the world's people who are looking for cheap food, it's not. I also noticed Battle Violence Vedum's desire to use the u-help to a greater extent to stimulate food production. There too I have good news for Battle of Vedum: earlier this year I was in Nepal. There are Norwegian u-aids in use via the UNDP for various projects to start and increase food production. Everything is done according to purely market economy principles, and it goes very well – with one huge problem: the population in this country – about 30 million people – has such poor purchasing power that it is almost impossible to sell the increased food resources that the country is now able to produce. But the world is able to produce more than enough food to feed the population. In the 1980s, a group of French agronomists looked at Poland – that was while it was still the communist system – with its huge agricultural area. They saw a trend in which Polish agriculture was intensified to the same production capacity per unit area as Northern France. Poland would then be able to supply the whole of Europe with all agricultural food. Then it goes without saying that there is no production capacity for food the world lacks. What the world lacks is an economic progress that enables the world's population to buy the food produced. I also want to stay a little bit at the price development for cereals. It is true that during the last year and a half, grain prices have increased somewhat – as I was in the past year and a half. But the world price for wheat is approx. NOK 2 per year. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, When we buy a bread, it's not just the grain we pay for. We pay for painting it, transportation, the costs of the shops to get this out, marketing, etc. If we think that the price of cereals in the world had increased by 100 pst., twice as high, that would lead to a price of a bread of about 100 pst. 1 kroner at the store. So this is not the main problem here. If the world is better able to get the economy going, the hunger problems will also be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1602	Let me pay tribute to the interpellant to take a look at this spring's home-grown farm and out into the big world, where the sufferings are huge, precisely because you don't have food for the billions of people who are in extreme poverty. Finally, the interpellant returns to the home – I will come back to that a little – but I fully agree with him that food is politics. It's always been. The Roman emperors – Battle violence Vedum gave a good insight into history as well – knew that the inhabitants got bread and circuses, they were satisfied. So that's important. Food prices, we've seen in the future, are part of the turmoil we've seen in some countries, but not just that: there are other issues, too. lack of democracy. Often it is political in the bottom. In addition, there have been many special climatic disturbances around the world over a number of years. In Norway, we have such a situation that we can produce relatively much food for our own consumption under poor climatic conditions, when we see it globally, but under very good democratic and political conditions. It shows that this is what's important. In terms of prices on the world market, it is that if there is too little of a commodity, they become high. It should preferably be grown more. Then I'm not quite sure if the solution is what the interpellant says, that it has to be regulated more – because I perceive it to be some of the answer. I have to say that I have a sense of the state council's statement that we cannot alone influence this, and that it is clearly limited what Norway can do, a country with five million people. There are incredible areas in the world that can be used. We see reports from very fertile countries, among others. in Africa, where the absence of democracy and the political situation prevent these resources from being used. Countries that have exported in the past are not able to feed their own population. That's when I think that if you're going to use the situation out in the world in reasoning to produce more food in, for example. Norway, the calculation has to be, not as the Council of State says, but as I hope he might think, that some of the funds that had to be used in Norwegian agricultural production can be used, for example. on the aid budget to provide even more production elsewhere in the world. This is about power, as the Council of State also expresses in its statement – not just market power, but political power. It is political power that governs this in very many ways. I really agree with the Council of State – often I disagree, but I think he had a good post. On the request to export the cooperative model, I perceive that he is something reserved for it. They're going to have to settle in between. But I think first and foremost that our job is to export democracy – export another way of governing society. Let me finally say this about the prices, which are very important – and which I am happy to hear from a Swedish State Council – namely that increased prices increase the ability to invest and increase well-being. We can add that to the Norwegian discussion on agricultural policy, if we are now going to lower to it. That's exactly what you're saying. If you get more investment, you'll be able to produce more. In other words, there is simply a link between increased prices, increased profitability and increased investment capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1621	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising a very important issue. It is important to be able to discuss such difficult issues. Norway has committed itself to contributing to the achievement of the UN’s Millennium Goals. The overall objective of the whole thousand-year project can be said to be reflected in all the other seven objectives. Both education, child mortality, pregnancy-related mortality, HIV/AIDS, environmental degradation, trade, debt and assistance are inextricably linked to the theme of poverty. The Christian People's Party believes that the UN's Millennium Goals are good and constructive clues to development policy, and obliges us to pursue a targeted and comprehensive policy. The thousand-year target for the interpellant is overall the other seven thousand-year targets. Increased food safety is an important measure to reduce the number of people who die of hunger each year. The UN estimates that the number of people suffering from hunger is over 1 billion. Only the increased food prices can lead an additional 100 million people into starvation. Fortunately, it seems that commodity prices may have reached a peak. But only the cereal prices have increased by 71 pst. since April 2010. There was a lot of talk about food prices. I just have to say after the articles of the Progress Party: that food prices have reached a normal level, I think is a slightly interesting angle, because food prices increased dramatically towards 2008, before they got a break again, and then to increase dramatically again until now. Then the Progress Party advanced the comparison of that 100 pst. I must say that I started thinking about Marie Antoinette, who said that if there is no bread, they can eat cake. For the debate on food security, which I perceive the interpellant has gone up, the issue is more about how the increased food prices and commodity prices will turn out to be the poorest in the world. It is true, as the previous speaker pointed out, that this could lead to more production. But it is also known that increased food prices and commodity prices will be dramatic for the poorest. As the interpellant also emphasized, the poorest people will buy raw materials and process them themselves, bake bread themselves, while we will go to the store. So if bread gets 1 kr more expensive in Norway, it will have dramatic consequences for the poorest. Norway can contribute to the achievement of this precisely thousand-year target through increased appropriations for the UN food programme and other similar institutions. This Christian People's Party has gone into its alternative budgets. Every year we have increased agricultural aid in our budget, and we have pushed the government. It's not as often as you can say, but it's what we've been through and that's what the government has done, because it's an important kind of assistance. Food safety is about people having access to both adequate, safe and nutritious food. Today, much of food production is controlled by large multinational companies. It concerns the production of the food itself, but also of an important input factor such as fertilisers. The goal must be to make people less dependent on this. Both cooperatives and microfinance are examples of actions that both help to help people out of poverty and strengthen individual confidence. Such measures also strengthen civil society. From our own history, we know what an important role non-governmental organisations have played in our own political and economic development. That is why the Christian People's Party has always been involved in volunteering, both in Norway and internationally. Experience from aid work has shown that this also works in developing countries. Therefore, a strengthened civil society is an important contribution to the achievement of the UN's Millennium Goals. Here Norway can contribute with experience – we are world-class in terms of voluntary action. This can be done by providing support to different projects, such as: agricultural cooperatives, where several small producers combine to sell the food they have produced, in order to achieve higher prices. Such cooperatives are highlighted as examples in the status report for the Millennium Goals. Another example is microfinance, where people by joining together can contribute to loans to start their own business. This grants support to the State already today, but this aid, which is granted through e.g.: Norfund, can be increased. It is mentioned in today's edition of Today's Business that cooperation between private Norwegian investors and the state company Norfund has produced good results. We have a responsibility to play the right team in international negotiations to ensure food security and that all people can be entitled to food. This is an important theme that the Christian People's Party is pleased to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1649	Thank you for the debate. I have to comment a little on the debate. I am amazed to hear from my good colleague in the Foreign Affairs Committee, Peter N. Myhre, who says that everything is very well. He doesn't see any trouble. I have chosen to spend a lot of time reading reports and the like about the world's food situation, and there are very few others who look at everything that hurts well. FAO has said that world food production needs to be increased by an estimated 70 pst. by 2050, due to an increase in population growth, as stated earlier, but also due to an increase in wealth growth. To increase the world's food production by 70 pst. is a huge boost, especially when we know that climate change is turning out in a very negative way in those areas of the world that today have too little food. I have read that with just moderate climate change will e.g.. Indian cereal production could be reduced by 18 pst, because it is in marginal regions. If you go to southern Africa and Central Africa, you'll see that large parts of the areas where there is today a way to grow food will become unsavory. That is why, in the Centre Party, we are concerned about climate change adaptation of agriculture and knowledge-based looking at how to cope with climate change, while at the same time having agriculture in the areas that are hardest hit. So Svein Fleet had a comment on market regulation. Unfortunately, history has shown that Western policies have been unsuccessful in liberalising trade in food — for example: when many food products were dumped in Haiti and eliminated the entire local commodity market, which made them totally dependent on imports. That is why I believe it is right and duty for a country to produce its own food that a country must have the opportunity to protect its own food production, so that they do not become as vulnerable as they do, for example. have remained in Haiti, which was almost self-sufficient but has now become totally dependent on imports. And we saw what happened in 2008, when world commodity prices went up. There was riot, and there was a change of regime. So this with the cooperative model: I know that someone likes to smile a little bit of it, or ridicule it. But the point here is not Norway; the point is that we think it is a good model. And the whole point of the model is to ensure ownership locally and regionally, so that you get a local processing, and to ensure a safe disposal of the raw materials. For some of the challenge now for the local farmer is that he does not know if he gets to sell his goods, and that very much of the goods then goes to play and does not come out in the markets. This is why we believe in a local cooperative organisation, where we have safer provisions, and where we also get knowledge about processing and get local value creation and knowledge building, so that we can get the most active agricultural production possible, so that as many people as possible can eat saturated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1663	In the case of agricultural cooperatives, or cooperatives, I think it is only necessary to make a concrete study of the conditions for this in each country. And with regard to the desire for more agricultural aid, it is one of the proposals that we are making in the Storing Communication Towards a greener development. So that's what we want to satisfy. So I don't think there's any doubt that the world has enough food in one sense, and too little in another. The world has enough food, in the sense that with an Indian food consumption per capita we have more than enough food, but with a Norwegian meat consumption per capita we have too little food, if we assume that all nine billion would eat the same as us. It would be a formidable challenge to create enough food for the whole world to eat so much meat. So it depends on the perspective. In any case, I think we need to increase production, and we need to distribute better. And it's very much about power, which both the Christian People's Party and the interpellant were also in, and to some extent also the Advance Party and the Right. It's incredibly much about power. Bertolt Brecht once said that hunger does not occur, it is organized by the grain merchants. There's a socialist way to ate it, but there's no doubt that there's power over the food market that's crucial. The fleet was concerned with the question of democracy. It was very long assumed that democracy was a sort of guarantee against hunger, among other things. from the experience of China with the ‘great leap’, but it has been shown that it is not that simple. As the Fleet, I am a very keen supporter of democracy, but it has turned out that many democratic countries are able to cope with quite great hunger problems without them being solved. India is an example of this; there is much more hunger in India than in China, despite India being much more democratic than China. It has also been shown that developing countries – such as China as an example, and in Africa Ethiopia, an authoritarian society in many ways, but a development-oriented society – have been among the most successful in reducing the hunger problem. It is clear that it is in the most brutal dictatorships, where no information is released, one can easily imagine the major famines. Unfortunately, democracy has also shown the ability to adapt to hunger, as long as it concerns marginalised groups – not in the capital, indigenous peoples, groups that do not easily give their power to know. Finally, I would say that yes, we want to support through the UN organisations, such as. The World Food Programme. But here's an important point, which the Battle of Vedum was about, that we don't have to change the balance of power in places by getting a lot of food from the international community. It can change people's tastes, it can destroy local markets. It is essential that organisations such as the World Food Programme buy locally and thus contribute to the creation of sustainable markets that can function, and do not brush on Western cereals — often given in a minor way not only to help in an emergency but to promote agricultural interests in their own country, the United States, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1678	So the debate is on case No. 12 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1684	We're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1692	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stortings meeting on 19 May 2011 on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1702	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Torkil Åland on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right. Proposal No. 1 has been converted into a transmission proposal and will be amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the government include freedom of expression on the Internet and on social media as a central part of the work on international human rights.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Two and three. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a strategy on how Norway will work to promote freedom on the Internet and on social media in relevant international forums.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to analyse how censorship on the Internet and on social media affects the interests of Norway and Norwegian business abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1878	During the debate, Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that all major Norwegian aid organisations publish an annual report on corruption.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1905	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-24.ana.ud457e1945	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
