ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e26	The representative, Arve Kambe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e29	On behalf of the representatives of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Torbjørn Røe Isaacsen and myself, I am delighted to propose an amendment to the Children's Act for parents' obligations to pay subsidies for legitimate children who move out of the home.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e34	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e37	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Arve Kambe, Svein Flätten, Ingerd Schou and myself, make proposals on property taxes. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e42	Yeah, the president also thought the Right was against it. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e47	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal to launch an overall review of the various representatives we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e52	The representative, Mr Giltun, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e55	On behalf of the representatives of Robert Eriksson, Laila Marie Reiertsen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I would like to make proposals for changes to the People's Security Act. [[an equivalent financing scheme for assistance dogs and service dogs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e61	All proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e73	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils meet for oral Question Time: State Council Life Signe Navarsete State Council Sigbjørn Johnsen State Council Audun Lysbakken The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e90	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Norway is an expensive country to live in. Recently, figures from the Food Chains Committee showed that Norwegian food prices are much higher than in other countries, we could look at the Dagsrevyen Sunday. This is due, inter alia, to: the agricultural policy of the government, the protection of customs duties and the increase in VAT rates. Power prices have been extremely high in winter. A lot of people got a bump when the bill came. On TV 2, we could see that BKK is now starting to close the flow to people in the region, which is also happening in other power companies. This is happening more and more often than before. Gas prices have passed most of the places 14 kroner per litre, and some places passed 15 kroner per litre. Did it have to be that expensive? There's someone sitting there scouring the cream and kicking himself when people have to go out with their hard-earned crowns – the state. When the market price rises, this increase in prices is reinforced, inter alia, by: the tax called VAT is increasing. The state skins consumers. 60 pst. the price of petrol is taxes to the State. The higher the price of electricity, the more money the state collects in terms of VAT on electricity – in addition to the electricity charge. So the total public input is 70 pst. of what you pay at power prices. The higher the housing prices, the more the country takes into account the document fee. One might wonder if the increase in fees does not also eat up the increase in wages. Perhaps it is now time to put consumers at the centre, by reducing some charges? The Minister of Finance is free to choose from the proposals of the Progress Party in the last few years, including flexible low fuel and electricity charges, lower document fees – as proposed by the Progress Party. If the Minister of Finance has any proposals for reduced charges that the Progress Party has not seen, we are sensitive to new proposals that benefit consumers. The Progress Party has the solution. But what will the Minister of Finance do to facilitate the situation of consumers in an increasingly expensive country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e109	The most important thing we can do to ensure that Norway continues to be a good country to live in, including for the consumers with whom the representative Svendsen is engaged, is to pursue a responsible economic policy. It's to make sure that one keeps order in the Norwegian economy, it's to make sure that the rule of action is followed, it's to make sure that we can set ourselves up so that our competitive companies don't lose competitiveness, and it's to make sure that the next generation is able to pay for our common well-being by saving for the future. Then it is interesting that one of the most important steps we have to take in order to conduct a responsible policy is to follow the action rule – a rule that the Progress Party will scrap. It will mean that there will be less confidence in the Norwegian economy, that will mean that interest will go up. It will be blind, and it will be much stronger than part of the fees to which the representative Svendsen refers and which are high in Norway. It also has to do with the fact that the level of fees we have in Norway provides the community with large revenues that are used for a safe and well-being country. So there are more things between heaven and earth than high taxes — there is a strong welfare state, there is a safe and good economic policy that ensures that Norwegian citizens have a relatively low interest rate, among other things. So there's more between heaven and earth than just fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e118	I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that there is more between heaven and earth than that both he and I see. But the point is that it's the same old lesson we get. Once the Progress Party has submitted proposals to the State budget in the past, we have heard that we will destroy the economy with it. But by the end of the year, it has been shown that the Workers' Party and the other red-green parties have spent the same amount of money through revised national budgets and appropriations in addition to the year that the Progress Party has done. We're in the middle of the annual payroll now. That's something we hope to improve the purchasing power of most people, and we're glad when it does. But now it looks like the red-greens aren't very happy about it, because they're increasing the fees, they're under-regulating pensioners' pensions, they're introducing new planning and building laws that make consumers in this country get worse and worse out, and the pay increase is being eaten up by this. Wasn't it a thought to start facilitating the opposite way, creating a code that leads to lower house prices, a charging system that doesn't lead to increased costs for most people, and giving pensioners the same wage development as most people do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e129	Yes, in fact, we are in the middle of the so-called interim settlement, and once again, the main contribution that politicians can make to a responsible and good income settlement is to pursue a predictable economic policy. Then it is also worth noting that the attitude of the Progress Party to trade unions, to collective bargaining and to wage negotiations would probably lead to higher pay demands, because a desire to send a wedge into the organized working life, which has contributed in a good way to Norway being where we are. So there are some effects of the policies of the Advance Party that, when you put it into a larger whole, may not be as tempting as when you hear the words of the Advance Party about lower charges in some areas – which is to some extent to live up to that party's foundation. In its time, it was founded as a party to a strong reduction of taxes and public taxes and against public intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e136	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first from Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e139	It is probably true that there is a lot between heaven and earth, and at least it is clear that the Minister of Finance has now forgotten what he said in 2008 about the rule of action and the use of money on investment. However, in the case of charges that affect the drivers, it can unfortunately be stated that the state imposes charges that give the impression that it should be paid for something, which they do not, of course, are not. Let me give you some examples. The registration fee may amount to several dozen thousand kroner, but the job itself costs between 300 and 400 kroner to be completed. Where does the rest of the money go? The annual tax comes as a bill in the post office and is just that – a bill. It's a bill for nothing, just for the state to get hold of the car drivers' money. The fuel and diesel taxes have been renamed to user charges to give the impression that the money goes to road maintenance. But the fees are far from being earmarked. Then we have the one-time fee. What's that name? And you have to pay for it every time you buy a new car. It must be said that the State provides misleading information about the invoices they send to the drivers, and the charges they charge for other services. In future, will the Council of State contribute to a stronger consumer focus on charges, so that people are more informed about what they are actually paying for? Or is it for purpose and for political reasons... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e160	Then State Council Johnsen will have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e163	... you misplace the tax jungle that affects Norwegian consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e168	Thank you, President. As far as car charges are concerned, the government has announced that we will carry them out a broad review. It will be about all car charges, i.e. both the fuel dependants and others. We aim to present this assessment in the context of the 2012 budget, and then we will also discuss whether part of the fees are appropriate, in accordance with their purpose. But then it's worth noting that these fees are also part of the total income of the community. It is correct, as the representative Hoksrud says, that there are no earmarked fees. It goes to all the good purposes that make this country the best country in the world to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e178	Inherit Kambe - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e181	When I listen to the Minister of Finance, it's almost as if it's with a fatherly pride he protects about all the state's tax revenue. It reminds me that when former fiscal spokesman Erik Dalheim of the Workers' Party resigned as a fiscal spokesman for the Workers' Party for many years, he said: ‘A place out there is a hopeful and exciting growing representative – completely unaware that he or she will become a fiscal spokesman for the Workers’ Party.’ This may illustrate some of the challenges facing the Workers’ Party — the difficulty of obtaining tax revenue for the State, rather than social development, in order to reduce the need for taxes and taxes, and also to allow new ones to be introduced. When will the Workers' Party come to recognise that policy is not always about giving more money, and therefore not always about increasing taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e195	When the government joined Stoltenberg in 2005, it made a promise, and it was that the tax level should remain unchanged at the 2004 level. That promise was made by the government of Stoltenberg. I'm basically proud that one has managed to do that, at a time when there are still demands for increased counts in a wide range of areas. That's the one. The second is that the former Grandfather Dalheim – mentioned here – was an excellent rapporteur for the fees in the Finance Committee. I believe that being able to hedge off the Community's revenue in a good way is actually one of the most important jobs that the Minister of Finance and not only tax-policy spokespersons in the Financial Committee should be engaged in, but the entire Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e202	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e205	When I heard the main question, it was just before you could imagine that we had to turn off the light all of us, with the huge tax burden that we have in this country. But I feel like some of the things the Progress Party came along with. A group that, in addition to increased taxes, has received a new tax is part of our pensioners, who received a new pension tax from this year. At least there it's come in the messages here to this house, I'll also believe to the Minister of Finance, that the results may not have been exactly as expected. In addition to increased charges and increased electricity bills, it can be understood that some people feel that this is mostly done. My question is: does the Minister of Finance think that pensioners' taxes have worked according to the assumptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e214	I want to use the opportunity now to also answer something that I forgot to answer in the question from the representative of Kenneth Svendsen, and that is the regulation of pensions. I just want to remind you that a broad majority in the United Kingdom has been behind the Pension Reform, behind the new way of regulating pensions from 2011. As regards the conversion of pensioners' taxes, this was absolutely necessary because of the pension reform that came on 1 January of this year. The general rule is that those who have less than 300,000 kroner in pensions get relief. But then we saw that in some special cases you didn't get the intended relief. That is why there is also a transitional arrangement in pensioners' taxes in order to be able to take care of it. So it will probably be like this – and I have got some phones and some letters – that there are still special cases. But we now get to evaluate a little bit later and see if there are unintended effects beyond what this transitional arrangement was supposed to cover.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e223	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e226	The left and the government parties largely agree on the size of the tax and tax burden, but we disagree on the device. On 6 June 1996, Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen received a report from the Green Tax Commission, which proposed to shift the tax burden from tax on labour to tax on low-environmental consumption. The polluter-pays principle was established. The government has moved for six years to 1.5 billion. kr in green tax change. Left moved to nearly 6 billion. kr only in its alternative budget in 2011, and that at a time when we, for example. in Technical Weeksheets, it can be read that CO2 emissions are increasing. Does the Council of State see the potential for a major shift from red to green tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e238	Yes, it'll probably be a potential for twisting the tax in a more green direction, and I'm going to assume that it's going to be a very central question in the future. Then there is reason to remember that the Labour Party government introduced the CO2 tax early in the 1990s, which has proved to be successful in the sense that you both tax CO2 emissions and have reduced emissions. Another example of the distortion of the tax in the green direction is the conversion that has taken place, which is still happening with regard to the one-off charge on cars, which means that environmentally friendly cars get much less one-off charge, and the CO2 emissions from new cars have been reduced. So it shows that in several areas it's possible to turn the tax in the green direction, and I'm pretty sure this is going to be an important topic for this government too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e254	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e257	My question also goes to the Minister of Finance. I registered that the Minister of Finance in his first reply stressed that one of the most important things we do is to facilitate businesses and jobs. In January, Minister of Industry Trond Giske went high on the track. According to Today’s Economy, he wanted to remove the property tax because the companies ‘are in a tough competitive situation with other countries’. Let me add that it's not just the companies that are in competition. Also, countries compete to attract private capital that can help to expand and invest in businesses and secure jobs. The government's response to this challenge has so far been to double the tax on working capital. Working capital is the capital invested by the owners in the enterprises and intended to contribute to the creation of value and jobs. There is a tax that only applies to Norwegian owners, and that must be paid completely regardless of whether the company is running with profits or with a deficit. This has happened despite the fact that the government also knows that private ownership may mean the most in District Norway, in the West and in North Norway. I registered that LO's leader, Roar Flåthen, said to the VG in February: ‘It is not likely that some owners of small and medium-sized enterprises will have to pay more dividends than usual in order to pay the property tax.’ In short, it means that owners have to hold the company for capital, even if the company is running short, in order to pay taxes on wealth. When will the Minister of Finance follow up the performance of his own Minister of Industry and of the head of the LO?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e276	In the referenced interview, LO's manager said something in the continuation that I think is important to bring with him for the sake of the whole. Now I haven't quoted directly in my head, but I know about what stood there. It was that he expressed that he could participate in an investigation into so-called working capital, provided that one could keep up the state's proceeds, and provided that the rich could still pay taxes in that country. That's the whole of Lo Leader Roar Fletchen's statements in that area. We have assessed this in the context of the assessment of the tax reform. There we came to the conclusion that we would not grant exemptions from so-called working capital, because it is difficult to distinguish between working capital and not working capital. The reality of it would have been that you would have had to remove the entire wealth tax – and that is to the extent that the primary objective of the Right. There is a rather sharp distinction in Norwegian policy between those who want to eliminate the wealth tax and thus also the good distributive effects of the wealth tax and the provision of the wealth tax. So for the sake of the whole: if you look at the results of the Norwegian economy, it is actually that Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We are among those with the highest professional participation, and if you look at the development of production in Norway after the financial crisis, it turns out that Norway has recovered faster than countries with which it is natural to compare. So I don't think it's so picky, to use that expression, to run manufacturing in Norway, to create new jobs, and not least to make sure that businesses in this country are doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e285	The finance minister has obviously both chewed, thought and concluded, and the answer is that this is not the case. It was possible in Sweden to remove the property tax on working capital. My experience with the Ministry of Finance is that it is possible if you want to. If the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance want to do so, it is possible. So the Minister of Finance says it's not that hacking fervor. Well, say it to sausage maker Albert Idsøe, who in Stavanger Aftenblad stood up and told about his business, which is running short, but where he still has to pay a lot of property taxes, and not just property taxes – he also has to pay taxes on the dividends he collects. What he pays taxes on is the building mass, it's the stick meat that was in the warehouse waiting to be sold. That's what he has to pay taxes on wealth. Does the Minister of Finance think that this is not a problem for production companies, like Albert Idsøe?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e294	In 2003, we had a civil government with a Finance Minister from the Right. In 2003, a former Minister of Finance from the Right presented an inquiry into what was to be the basis for the tax reform that came from 2004 onwards. There, the so-called 'Skauge' committee proposed that the taxes on wealth should be reduced, but that the tax on property should be increased accordingly. The Bondevik government, with the Right in the Ministry of Finance, would have had the opportunity to reduce both the wealth tax and to remove the property tax — if it had been political will to do so. What has happened after this government took over is that the proportion of people paying taxes on wealth in Norway has fallen from 34pst. until 17 pst. – So we have taken a long step forward in making the wealth tax fairer. This has meant that small and medium-sized enterprises have actually also benefited from the change and conversion of the property tax made by this government. So political will, yes, but that will was not sufficient in the government that ruled until 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e301	There will be four follow-up questions – first from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e304	In his last reply to the representative, Mr Sanner, the Minister of Finance spoke against better knowledge. He knows that it was really the right idea was an agreement that the wealth tax should be reduced, when the dividend tax was introduced, and it was not followed up by the Workers' Party. So here you should at least write the story right. Private, diverse ownership is important. It is central to future value creation and jobs in Norway. With regard to the current employment situation, we also know that Norway is extremely dependent on state ownership and foreign ownership. That is what dominates Norwegian business today. The representative Sanner used Idsøe as an example. You can also mention Elkem, who was sold abroad a while ago. A Norwegian owner would have to take out 275 million. kr more than a foreign investor to defend the property tax. The Minister of Finance was concerned about this in 1992. Does he feel that such taxation is more important today than it was in 1992?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e311	The answer to that question lies in the evaluation message that has now been submitted to the Storting. It was presented last Friday. There we have reviewed the experience of the 2006 tax reform. There we have gone through the question of whether we should exempt working capital from property taxes. The answer to that is that we will not propose such a sharing of the property tax, nor remove the property tax. On the other hand, this government wants to continue what can be called the reform of the wealth tax, to see if it is possible to make further redistribution, after the lines that have been done in the past, on a broader basis and for example. larger base deductions, which make small and medium-sized assets either exempt property taxes or receive greatly reduced taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e316	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e319	Right-wing burning to get rid of the property tax is something historyless. On the right was the possibility to get rid of the property tax when the tax reform was negotiated in 2004, if the party had chosen to settle with the Progress Party. But the right chose a deal with the Workers' Party and still taxes on wealth. But leave it. The removal of taxes on wealth will increase the willingness to invest. It will be an investment in future value creation and in new jobs. It will safeguard the equity of family-run enterprises and ensure Norwegian ownership. It will also ensure that more investors and people with capital remain in Norway and that they will choose to invest their money in Norway. In other words, property tax is a penalty for investment and saving, a call for consumption and a call for capitalists to move abroad. The state's taking in 14 billion. kr in taxes on wealth. This contributes to a corresponding increase in the surplus of the State budget. The money is placed in the oil fund. The oil fund uses the money to buy shares in our competitors. Does the Minister of Finance think that AS Norway gets better returns on this money in the oil fund than if the money was managed and invested by Norwegian business owners and investors?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e328	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for his support for his story. It's part of the story, but the political game doesn't always work to get the marriages you want in politics. Some people make agreements with others other than them, but this is the policy. My main point is that the Right had an opportunity when they put in government to do far more with the property tax than they actually managed during the four-year period. With regard to the approximately 13 billion that the property tax means, removing the property tax means finding other forms of holding up the income of the country. Finding tax proposals that absorb such large amounts is difficult. It would be very hard to get away from, for example. increasing the employer’s contribution or increasing the social security charge, which would have a significant impact on the provision of employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e337	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e340	It's always exciting to hear when government parties are going to talk about property taxes. For one day – in the context of the campaign – it is the tax that really puts the distribution society and inequalities on the agenda, and one fights for the tax on wealth. The second day, as the Minister of Finance is doing here today, one boasts of how many fewer people suddenly pay the same taxes on wealth that you are very much for, when the mood dictates it. My question is: does the Minister for Finance think, objectively from his point of view, that the property tax is positive or negative for Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e346	I believe that the wealth tax has an important distributive effect. It's not weakened from yesterday to today. The Minister of Finance's mood in relation to the taxes on wealth is much the same all the time. It's that we need property taxes to have a fairer distribution in the tax system. The evaluation shows that the tax on wealth has made the tax system more progressive. However, the fact that we have made redistributions in wealth taxes by expanding the base, increasing the bottom line is also a recognition that for some enterprises with smaller and medium-sized assets, this can be a challenge. Therefore, one has made the conversion that one has done with the property tax. In addition to what was involved in the 2006 tax reform, such as protective deductions and the share dividend tax, I believe that all in all it is a change that is good for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e353	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e356	I will continue on the track to the Seven: the left has been on a number of company visits, and one of the visits was at the Aass Brewery in Drammen. Aass Brewery is a typical Norwegian company; it is family time, it is run by the fourth generation and employs 150 people. They run fairly; almost all the profits are brought back to the company, but as the manager, Terje Aass, said, "We never got thanks or a pat on the shoulder because we contribute to value creation and employing a significant number of people. Instead, we're being countered. The changes in taxes on wealth and inheritance have made it more difficult and expensive for the next generation to take over. This is not money that this generation has on book, but for which they have to bottle up the company. Is that what the Minister for Finance wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e363	I see that in some companies that might be what you could call liquidity challenges in paying the property tax. It is a disadvantage that one has to weigh up against other effects that property taxes have, among other things. ensuring a fairer distribution between taxpayers. So I agree that it's a difficult balance sheet, but we've chosen to keep the property tax primarily for important redistribution reasons, so that a more than previously paid tax by ability. But I would also like to say that I think one of the most important things about Norwegian business is that we are able to conduct an economic policy that keeps interest rates low and that ensures that we get a responsible income statement in the big accounts. I think that's what's most important for Norwegian value creation and production in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e370	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e373	The question goes to the Minister for the Child. I also take the opportunity to welcome him back after the paper commission. We appreciate seeing him back in his work. I want to go from the wealth tax to the administration of other great values that exist in the Norwegian community. For the past few weeks, the address paper has had a series called ‘The Forgotten Children’. There they present the story of 40 babies in foster home queues, which they have followed for almost two years. These stories tell us about a child's protection that gives a lot of kids good help. And then they also tell us that on the way to getting that help, many kids experience instability and moving on the move on the move. I could have told the story to Kari in ten years, who has tried to move from one measure to another. I could have told the story to Silje in seven years, who has moved ten times in his short life. Psychologist Kristin Lemmervik states to the Address Paper in this context: ‘Many movements may result in the child’s being rejected and worthless. The child does not trust in others. He wonders what is wrong with himself. He fears how long it will last." These are the most vulnerable kids we have. And the question to the Council of State is, what will the Council of State do to ensure that the young people for whom the authorities are actually taking responsibility will have the security and stability that was the whole point of taking care of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e385	Thank you for your question and thank you for your welcome. I have also read the articles of the Address Paper with great interest. They're part of an image of an increased awareness of child protection, which I think is positive, part of an image of an increased political focus on child protection, and part of an image that gives more shades of child protection, because we now see that there are many good news from Norwegian child protection. There is optimism in child protection even in relation to the increased resources now being given to child protection. We have conducted a user study to show that children in child protection are largely satisfied with the way they are treated in child protection. And we've just had a foster home study that's very uplifting, because it shows that most foster parents are not only satisfied and proud of the job they're doing, but could imagine doing it again. We're not going to let the good news in child protection become a sleep cushion, because we also have many serious problems that remain to be solved. One of them is that we still have cows in child protection. Although the queues for foster homes are reduced, they are still too long. Another is precisely the problem raised by the representative. I have also met many children who say they have moved too often. There might be different reasons for that. There are children in institutions who experience that the institution is being closed or is losing a tender and must move for that reason. There are children who have been moved between foster homes, and there are children who experience that there are constant struggles between child protection and biological parents about who should be responsible. For this very reason, I have said that when we are now well-started with the first stage of the reinforcement of child protection, which is the resource situation, we shall start the debate on principles. And one of the principles we need to discuss is the biological principle of child protection and whether we open up too many fights about the child's care situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e396	I thank you for your answer. I share the Council's description that there are both positive features and challenges in child protection. But I do not feel that the Council of State gives any very good answer to how he will solve the problem of many movements. It is also true that many of these movements are actually due to a lack of follow-up from child protection and a lack of child protection capacity. This applies not least to municipal child protection that does not have the power to follow up foster parents, which causes foster homes to collapse. And it's not least that we have foster home queues, which make the kids come into foster homes too late. Then ear-marked grants are good, and the government deserves praise for strengthening the county council. But the Council of State has not announced any further action, any promise, to lift the sector to meet the need that is actually there. We have not received a stepping-up plan for full child-resistance coverage. So the question is, what will the Council of State do to raise the child protection sector to the level it deserves, so that we give young people stability?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e403	I will do that both by improving the resource situation for child protection and by addressing the systemic challenges we face in child protection. The government is now making the biggest promise for Norwegian child protection in 20 years, and we're doing it in two stages. The first one is about the most acute, which is strengthening the first line of child protection and getting rid of the queues in the counties. We do that through the allocation of 400 new positions to municipal child protection, which are ongoing in these days, and which will result in significant capacity improvements. And we're doing it by putting in place multiple denominators in the counties. So we budget, as I said, and as the representative knows, for just one year at a time. But there will be resource challenges also after that, as the government and I intend to address. Let's get to the system questions. It's about assessing whether there are things we can do in the purchasing system to create more stability. Magne Raundalen is now leading a sample to go through the biological principle, which will just look at the questions the representative has addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e412	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e415	A very simple question to the Council of State: can the Council of State guarantee that the funds for municipal child protection will be stepped up even after 2011? Or do we still have to wait and see how things went in the government's annual internal budget drawdowns even in the years that come, despite the great unsolved tasks, despite the great documented needs, despite the deadlines, despite the queues, despite all the children who need help but who do not get it, at least not at the right time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e421	The government has been very clear to the municipalities, among others. in the circular that first gave guidance on how to distribute the earmarked funds, that we have a long-standing perspective on the commitment we've now begun. It's not like this money comes one year and disappears the next. These posts are there to provide a permanent strengthening of municipal child protection. So is it that even though what we are doing now is the greatest promise for child protection since the early 1990s, which will mean a significantly better coverage in very many municipalities, there will still be resource challenges after 2011. We just grant money in the state budget, I can't afford money here and now, but I acknowledge and acknowledge that it will be such a resource need, and it's a goal for the government to do something about it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e428	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e431	Unintentional child protection movements are a major problem, as the first questioner asked. Much of the problem is due to poor coordination and poor follow-up and monitoring of children’s needs. In his answer, the Council of State says that there is optimism in child protection, but then I would like to inform you that, despite the optimism, the County of Troms is now very concerned because very many private non-profit institutions are being laid down because state spaces that are available are going to be used at any price. I will almost go as far as to say that the ideology of the government is at the expense of these children. The county fears that the children will now be offered a reduced offer because they are now being laid down. My question to the Council of State will then be: does the Council of State share the concern of the County Council in Troms that cuts in private places will affect the children who really need this help?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e438	There are a number of private institutions offering an important and necessary offer to Norwegian children’s protection. That's what the government is going to add up to, that they're going to keep going. One of the things I have previously notified Stortinget about is that we also go through the purchasing system we have to assess how we can protect ideal actors, among others. against the pressure from the commercial operators. I want to challenge the Progress Party on it, because the Progress Party is only concerned with the state capacity and sees it as a problem. I believe it is a matter of course that we should make full use of the state capacity for which we are paying in any case. Something else would be very bad resource usage. What really threatens the ideal actors is an increase in the commercialisation of child protection, that more and more commercial actors are coming in with a completely different resource situation from the ideals. Here the Progress Party sails under false flag because they have always wanted the commercial welcome, and so, in fact, they are the ones who stand for a policy that will squander the ideals over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e443	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e446	When you travel around and meet municipal child protection, and in and of course talk to those who work in the state, you sometimes get the feeling that there's something -- what should I call it -- a little unsolved in the transition between the municipal and the state. That's a very critical point. Because we're talking about those who are going into state child protection, are the heaviest, those who have the greatest challenges. Then there's one thing that's hit me in the last few days, and that's that we're now seeing research that shows that the kids themselves are less likely to be heard than before -- maybe a little surprising. The Children’s Protection Act says that children over the age of seven are entitled to be heard in the proceedings. Then I think it's a little disturbing to see that the system, be it municipal or state, gets a little bit enough with itself, and that today's children, as the research shows, are actually getting less heard. Could the Council of State reflect on that? And what will the Council of State do to pay for such a thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e453	I agree with the representative, Thommess, that is a concern I share. We are now doing a number of things to improve children's participation in child protection. This is also something that the Children's Convention very clearly imposes on us. We have carried out the first user survey in the field of child protection, with very interesting feedback. It's in itself a cross of thought that it's the first time it's done. It shouldn't be the last time it's done. I've been very concerned that the supervision of child protection institutions should always hear the children. One of the important objectives of the upgrading we are now undertaking in municipal child protection is that there should be capacity to take this seriously. The resource situation is no excuse for not doing this. But an improved resource situation will hopefully also produce better results. One thing that is important to emphasize is that this is not just a moral question about hearing children. Child protection is getting better if we hear children, we get more effective solutions that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e458	I want to follow up right where the Olemic Thommessen left off and the Council of State ended in its answer. For the Left, it is important to strengthen the first line service in the field of child protection. It is the first line service in the field of child protection that has the major challenges. They're the ones who see the kids in their eyes, and they're the ones who make the tough decisions in their everyday lives. We probably wanted to move resources, money, people -- everything -- down to the first line service. Because if you don't have stability in the first-line service, you don't get to do the things that the Council of State is now doing as well. If you're going to have good supervision, if you're going to give good guidance to people, if you're going to work with kids for the day, you're going to have to work with the same kids for a long time to have that stability. My question is, is the Council of State willing to take the big grips as well? The big grips are about building up the first-line service to be much better than it is today, by moving people, resources and decisions down the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e467	The short answer to that is yes. I'm glad that the bourgeois parties are going into such an open discussion, because there was a government left in it, which presented the reform that gave us today's organisation of child protection, and that has for several years ensured that the large amount of money in child protection has gone to state child protection. We've had a development where we've risked getting a large state upper body on thin municipal bones. I also hope that the representative Skei Grande will recognise the important shift that lies in the 2011 state budget, where the big money for the first time after the reform goes to the first line. It's a development I'm going to continue, and it's a development that's necessary, because it's the municipal child protection that's the first line that meets the children. We also need to review the system of child protection in order to avoid unnecessary conflicts and to discuss the distribution of responsibilities between the state and the municipality. I'll do that in a big message coming next year. Then I would like to invite Stortinget to decide on the future organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e476	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e479	Six years have passed since the Red-Green Government took over and the Senter Party took over the Ministry of Local Affairs. Every week we get new revelations about the care of the elderly in Kommune-Noreg that do not indicate in any way that she has improved somewhat in recent years – rather the opposite. Last night we got on the TV 2 news story about Borgny in 84 years as a fall and printed on the security alarm, but that didn't get the help she should get. Recent observations have been made: the nurses slaughter the care offered in Norwegian care for the elderly, one of three home care recipients needs institutional space, municipalities break the law in the treatment of hospital applications. Feedback from local spokesmen, advisers and others suggests a tight local economy and poor supply for many old people who follow it. Yesterday, the Stortinget decided on something that the Progress Party has been fighting for a long time, i.e. increasing state investment for the construction of health homes and nursing homes. That's good, it's a step in the right direction, but that's not enough. Unfortunately, our proposal on state support for the operation of sick homes was voted down. State support for the operation of sick homes is something that could have helped in the situation. We know this is something that works in other areas: getting sick, getting an automatic sick pay from the state, becoming an unemployed person, getting an automatic unemployment benefit from the state. My question to the municipal minister is: how bad must it be in the care of the elderly in Kommune-Noreg before the municipal minister also assesses the introduction of state funding when it concerns the operation of the care of the elderly in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e491	I thank you for the question, even though the question in its nature should have our rights to the Minister of Health and Care, who has the professional responsibility for both health care centres and the care sector. However, I choose to answer the question, because it also has a device against local economy, against free revenues against ear-marked revenues, which is my responsibility. Therefore, I also choose to answer more on the general basis. It has been a significant growth in municipal services under the red-green government. It has our growth in employment, it has our growth in investment, it has our growth in municipal budgets. It is activity and activity growth, which is important to meet the challenges of care and care, school and kindergarten, child protection and all the other important societal tasks that municipalities are set to take care of. Earmarking has many sides. I'm not against it when it comes to stepping up new areas, when it comes to bet areas, where you have to go in and make a special bet. But when it comes to areas where municipalities have been responsible over time, earmarking will favor and reward those municipalities that have not done their job. The municipalities that have a good supply for the elderly – and there are actually many of them as well – I visit many municipalities where older people make good use of the offer they have – may now be spending money on school because they have spent the money on the care of the elderly. They will then come into dispute with the Progress Party's proposal. Audience is not solutionable. What is the solution is the policy that the government is pursuing, simply to increase the permissions both to cover demography and to give the municipalities some free resources to bet areas that they see locally need to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e502	What is the starting point of the Progress Party and its clear perception is that, when it comes to care for the elderly, it is a fundamental welfare service that is so important that it should not be possible for a cage in a rich or poor municipality to receive help. It has to be a government funding. It must be that the need triggers funding: if you have a need, you get government funding in the same way that you get if you get sick, or if you get unemployed. This must be automatic in. The Minister of Local Affairs has been very good at blaming the municipalities in the past – now it is also the responsibility of the Minister of Health that the municipalities do not get enough money. Local authorities have received some more money, but more inhabitants and more tasks have been given to them. The question to the municipal minister must then be: if not, as she calls it, needs-driven financing, does it work here, why does it work in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e511	Under this government, we have a historically low earmarking of funds for the local government sector. The nursery sector was introduced into the municipal framework this year. I think we're at 5 pst. on earmarks — very, very low — giving local authorities room for action to prioritise what is most needed in each municipality. It provides the most effective services, it provides the best priority efficiency, and it provides the best services to the population in this country that a local user uses the local wit and local ability to prioritise, but that one then has a government that would like to spend resources so that the municipalities have something to give priority to. It actually does this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e516	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Jon Hunter Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e519	Governments often talk about welfare municipalities, and she has underlined the need for the State to ensure a space for action and a sound economy. The Fafo report now presented shows that around 25 000 old sick nursing people receive an offer at a low level of care, at the border of what is professionally sound: there are too few sick homes, there are too few qualified health professionals, there is no money for operation. Is it, then, the State or the municipalities that have failed, so that old caregiving gets hurt?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e524	Instead of looking for scapegoats when we see that there are unresolved tasks that need to be tackled, we have to stick with the municipal sector and work together between the state and the municipality, so that we solve the challenges, so that our older people who have lived hopefully good lives, and contribute to society in a very good way, can get a safe and dignified care for the elderly. They must be given the freedom of choice to live home as long as they have the power to do so – to choose it and to be safe to get the home services they need. And there must be a sick home place on the day it is necessary, and one chooses it. It's the government's goal, it's what we're working for, and it's going to keep working with the municipalities for. We have received 20,000 more annual works in the care services. We need even more capable heads and warm hands into the sector. We need more resources, and we work daily to ensure that the municipalities get the funds they need, but trust that a municipal and local authorities will also be able to bet on and solve the problems that make our older people a worthwhile old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e531	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e534	Yesterday, we discussed a case on grant schemes for nursing homes and nursing homes. In addition to the increase in grants, the main change now was that the ministry and the government have removed the ideological skyscrapers and opened up cooperation with both housing law and private – a requirement Right and opposition have had a long time. Now this is fulfilled. So from 2008 to 2010, there were 1000 fewer hospitals than the government itself had estimated. And many projects were stopped just for the ideological reason that you couldn't cooperate with private people. But if you do not get the expected increase in hospitals, will the government also open up to the scheme proposed by the Right in the 2011 government budget, namely interest-free loans to build hospitals, in line with what has been proposed for school buildings? It will give municipalities the freedom to assess, and it will give them the opportunity to build more places.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e541	I am very pleased with the broad support of the government's proposal to increase the government's contribution to health care facilities and nursing homes with full-time care. It is important for municipalities to be able to receive a larger contribution and a more secure financing for their investments. As I also said yesterday, the government is going to follow these developments very closely. The care sector is an important sector of government. The fact that our older people are going to have a safe and worthy old age is one of our most important areas, together with our kids having good days in kindergarten and school. That's why we're going to follow along and see if the municipalities are now able to get up the rate of expansion. If you don't, well, let's discuss it. So far it indicates that we get a stronger expansion and a larger expansion rate now, but it gets us in that case to come back again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e546	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e549	The representative, Mr Hagesetter, has already referred to the Fafo report on parental care under pressure, which includes: states that the nurses believe that 22 pst. by the elderly who receive home care, in their own home, should actually have a sick home. Health surveillance recently revealed that two out of three supervision did not comply with the service provision required by the law. This was in services for the sickest elderly with large and complex needs. According to figures collected by the counties in 2007, there is a real need for nursing homes and nursing homes of 20 000, rather than 12 000, as the government aims to achieve. Does the Minister of State think that the need for institutional space will be met in 2015, so that everyone who needs it will have a place to stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e557	I ask for an understanding that the supervision that was done in the municipalities and the Health Authority's report is not known in detail by me. It is, whether you like it or not, the Minister of Health and Care. So I can't go into details when it comes to the supervision that has been. But what I can say, and as I said in my previous answer, it's one of the government's most important areas of commitment: that our elderly people should be safe from their old age, that they should be able to have freedom of choice in relation to whether they want to stay home and get home help and home care, or whether they want a sick home place. But then the last thing that has been said was that there are enough places for health care or nursing homes with a full day’s care available. I know that the Minister of Health and Health is working on every single day, this often discusses the government, and it is clear that there is an important part of the budgetary discussions ahead. We will follow closely both the need and what has been notified by the county councillors and municipalities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e562	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e565	My question goes to the Minister of State. On Friday 25 March, the government adopted new government guidelines for the beach zone. In recent years, the right to dispose of large areas and large values has moved from local municipalities to government offices and to government. In many places, this has led to a solid crisis of confidence between Kommune-Norway and the government. We saw it again last Friday when the government once again tightened up for the possibility of building houses, cabins, nausts, boating grounds and travel facilities in the beach zone. In particular, the uprising, of course, has been great in the West, in Trøndelag, on the south coast, along the Oslofjord and Telemark. In fact, the government believes that the pressure on land in these areas is so great that local authorities cannot themselves be held responsible for saying yes or no to building measures in the coastal zone. At first, the government proposed a robust intervention in the possibility, something on which the Right protested. Then the government has moderated for some municipalities, but it is still considerably worse for landowners and municipalities throughout the country. Municipalities such as Haugesund, Karmøy, Tysvær, Rennesøy, municipalities in Ryfylke, Bergensregionen, Trondheimsregionen, Kristiansandregionen and many other municipalities now feel quite strongly. It has in any case become more difficult to build something in the beach zone under this government. We have state guidelines for municipal plans, we have state plans for municipal plans, we have national expectations for municipal plans, we have state objections to municipal plans, and we have state guides to municipal plans! Local politicians all over Norway are quite tired of being overrun by the government and the Stortinge in local self-government, even in the case of the beach zone. The Government is discriminating against municipalities. Some may decide more, while others may decide less. Right wants all municipalities to decide more. The question to Navarsete is why the Senterpartiet – of all – believes that it is Erik Solheim and Lars Sponheim who are to determine the coastal zone policy over the municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e582	As Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, I am very busy with municipal self-government. I'm also a leader in the Center Party. In fact, the mentioned date was a good day both for the central party leader and for the regional minister. It was a day when a moderated significantly what had been presented to the beach sonata. Large parts of the country, large parts of our coast, got freer and more local authority over the beach sonals. Some of the largest and most densely built areas were given stricter descriptions. I mean, that's right. I think it's right to see that our country is different. It's okay to see that we can't have one-size-fits-all in this country. The Oslo soil is not comparable to the Helgeland coast. Then it is not possible to have the same policy and the same policy. It takes this government's consequence off. The large people's areas should have access to the beach sona, have an open-air area, have the opportunity to enjoy what we have in my area, in Sogn and Fjordane, have very abundantly, but as one here at the Oslo Earth and in the South is actually getting little of because most of it is deconstructed. We also see that in the vicinity of other major cities. Thus, there was a differentiation, so there was also an experiment in the Sunnhordland municipalities – a trust statement to the Sunnhordland Council – that they, even though parts of it are press areas, should be able to manage their beach areas locally. I also think it is important to keep in mind that we listen to local voices – in this case we listen to Sunnhordland. They got the answer they wanted from the government. It also did a lot of other municipalities. I mean, the line we've put on is a balance of the need to keep the stranded sonar available to people, and that business should be able to evolve where there's actually plenty of space.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e593	I understand that the Central Party's politicians in District Norway and the Central Party's voters are dissatisfied with the pervasiveness of private property rights in the Center Party and local self-government. It gets worse after this article. She was talking about a statement of trust to the Sunnhordland municipalities, which clearly deserves it. These are my neighbouring municipalities in the north, which I support. But it also means that it is a distrust statement to all other regions that their politicians cannot control the beach zone. For a long time, the centre party has facilitated the review of local community decisions by the county. What's happening now is that a lot of statesmen come up with objections based on office meetings. They object to the plots the case handler has never even been on. Objections are the worst tool that the State can use at municipal level, and the Right will therefore eliminate the right of objection of the statesman based on judgement. Does the Council of State think it might be a good idea at least to set as a minimum that the representatives of the county must have been on the site themselves before it is refused?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e604	The center party is certainly not the most eager to create new possibilities for objections to the state – I think I can say that safely. I will present a big message later this year about the relationship between the state and the municipality, where exactly what has happened, also at a time when the Right put in government, a tightening of the local action space, is being discussed. It is not that there was suddenly a shift in 2005 when it relates to the room of action that municipalities have to exercise local discretion. A large diffi report shows that it has happened over quite a number of years and with alternating governments. That is exactly why it is important that we take a foot in the ground and discuss how local democracy should develop further. The county is in some areas its best friend. When it comes to objections, I think it's not that hot a friendship. I thought that what the representative Mr. Kambe is addressing is a point I at least think we should discuss carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e613	There will be follow-up questions – first Anders B. Werp.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e616	The question here concerns state level guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea. There are 13 pages full of listing of reasons for state override of municipal decisions. There is one sentence in these guidelines that refers to the local self-government. Then we hear the Council of State commend this document, that it is a long step in the right direction even when municipal autonomy is to be respected. The centre party has programmed the construction of the community from below and is committed to the constitutionalisation of local self-government. A few days ago, we heard the Minister for the Environment confirm that there are several thousand objections from state authorities to municipal plans. The rapporteurs agree, from all sides, that there is an ever-increasing increase in over-management by state authorities. Does the Minister of State think that this harmonizes with the principle that society should be built from below?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e627	It is a perfectly correct description that the state's grip on the municipal sector has been strained, even in the years Right put in government. Right-wing stands out today as the party that is to release the municipalities. It's, with respect to reporting, not what you can write in history books when you look back and analyze what Right has done in government position. I'm not going to rip that up, but one has to bring it with me. Of course, this has happened when I have been working on it for some time and have to give a big message about the relationship between the state and the municipality, because it is not just a plan and guidelines for the beach zone, or the edge of the sea, which we sometimes say in the West – there are not so many beaches in all places, there are many crunches and hammers – there are also a lot of other areas. We need to see the totality of how local democracy is to be exercised by the local sector. This is a piece of it. And how municipalities can plan is an important piece. We're going to search that in the big news, but there's also a lot of other areas that we're going to have to discuss in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e634	Åge Starheim – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e637	Some time ago, Stortinget discussed a representative proposal from some Right-Representatives where there were seven proposals from the Progress Party and the Right that were downrooted by the majority on Stortinget. These proposals would really give the possibility of what the Center Party and the Liv Signe Navarsete have been talking a lot about, that is, local democracy's governance of its own municipality. I'm hearing the council say they're going to look at this relationship. I'm glad. I would like to ask the Council of State: will it go back and look at these seven proposals – and maybe use them as a template, to really set local politicians to control their own municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e645	I have to respectfully say that I can't remember all the seven suggestions here and now. But the suggestions made in this room are not just deleted. They will be set up and included in their evaluation in the future. It's important what the Storting thinks about different things, and it's also important what the minority thinks. I am busy that we should be looking for broad multiples in more matters than today. It provides stability and sustainable conditions, not least for one sector as important as the local government sector. I can't promise that I'll take up the seven suggestions, because unfortunately I can't memorize exactly them. I just want to say on a general basis that I'm busy that we should also listen to the plurality of the opposition when the government's policy is chiseled out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e654	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e666	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour who is responsible. Question 5, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be addressed by the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli. Questions 6, 7 and 8 from the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold, Oskar J. Grimstad and Arve Kambe respectively to the Minister for the Environment and Development are moved and answered before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire. Question 9, from the representative Mr Øyvind Håbreek to the Minister for Culture, has been transferred to the Minister for Knowledge who is responsible. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, this question is moved and answered in response to question 1, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 12, from the representative Jenny Klinge to the Minister for Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Industry who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e683	So let's start with question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e690	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘The decision on where E6 will be at Akersvika near Hamar has been going on for a very long time. Any move will cost approx. 170 million. kr extra, and many residents will have their quality of life reduced. Is it not best now to decide to expand the original trajectory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e704	Let me first give the questioner right because this matter has taken a long time. I have a considerable understanding of the frustration that many in the Hamar region feel about the slowness of the procedure here. But the reason is that it is a very important matter, a matter in which a fairly clear local perception stands against international principles that Norway has committed itself to. There's no easy balance between these. As you know, the Ministry of the Environment has raised objections to both of the existing municipal planning options. The objections to option A, following today’s E6 trasé, are justified in terms of nature values and ecological balance in Åkersvika nature reserve. Objections to Option B, which go beyond parts of the nature reserve, are justified for the purposes of soil protection. So the two options are going to look pretty similar. I have received many enquiries, both from individuals and institutions in Hedmark, about this matter. So there's one thing there's a lot of commitment to. I think it is very important that everyone involved is told their own. I think making a right decision here is more important than exactly what day the decision is made. The Ministry of the Environment is now in a process with other departments, above all, of course, the Ministry of Transport and others at the heart of the matter, in order to find the right solution. But ultimately, the decisive balance here is between a wetland area with Ramsar status, which will be adversely affected by one option, and local considerations, which are particularly related to soil protection, and which point in the opposite direction. There is no easy balance between international commitments and local perceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e715	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not exactly a response to how progress continues. The next Thursday is exactly two years since this case came to the department – it was 14 April two years ago. It went about that. a year before you were on an inspection in the area. And time goes by. You've come up with the following price tag: if you move the road, it's going to be $170 million. kr. more. You want to take 93 measures, a larger area than the other one. Some houses need to be demolished. Many get closer to their home and property and thus their quality of life deteriorated, of course. You have to move a river approx. 500 meters. And you have to move adjacent roads and some junctions. There will probably be longer construction time and longer construction time. So there's a lot of things that make this case seem to take even longer. On my question, I had hoped that the Council of State would say that now we are so and so far in the process, and before that and that date there will be a final decision on how we do it. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e724	I've learned through a long life in politics that if you give an exact date, there'll be a colossal dishes with the opposition if there's going to be as much as three hours beyond that date. That's why I don't want to give you a date. But there's an answer to this relatively quickly. I also think that Bredvold must agree that it is more important to make the right decision. The questioner sets out all the good reasons why it is to choose the option for which there is the greatest localization, but he does not emphasise the other consideration Norway has, that we have an international obligation. We have the Ramsar Convention, on wetlands that need protection, and the institutions that are in Ramsar point in the opposite direction. Now I'm not going to be too polemic, but if the Progress Party had shown similar commitment to soil protection in other issues in Norway as they do in this, it would have been a great step forward both for Norway and for humanity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e733	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now it's not just soil protection I'm thinking about. I'm thinking of $170 million. kr, as I mentioned, I think of those who get a degraded quality of life because their house is torn, and those who get closer – so there are many. It doesn't just apply to this thing with 93 dimensions. There are also other measures that make the quality of life, as said, worse for those living nearby. Now it is also said that there may be remedial measures that can maintain the level we have, if we keep the road where it is today. Has the Council seen anything about it, keeping the line where it is today, expanding it to be good enough, but that we have remedial measures in addition, so that we maintain and meet the requirements we have against us?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e742	A good thing about the matter having taken a long time is that I think every stone has turned around. One should never say in such a case. It may be something that has not been evaluated, but I think all the aspects of this, both costs and the different environmental aspects, are well weighed up against each other. I give Bredvold credit to present the arguments for one option, which is, in other words, a broad uprising in the Hamar area, in a good way. I am not really questioning any of the arguments, but they must therefore be weighed against the arguments that are linked to the significant disadvantage of internationally recognised wetlands, which point in the opposite direction. It may not matter when Norway accedes to international conventions. We can't just break them at our own discretion. So you have to weigh these two factors up to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e753	‘One of the main reasons for the high school dropout is the lack of apprenticeship after leaving school. Despite the fact that there are, in some cases, many employees in job categories with a professional background in the departments and agencies, fewer apprentices are admitted to the country than in the private sector. What will the State Council do to ensure that the Ministry of the Environment with its underlying agencies contributes more to increasing the number of apprentices than is the case today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e760	The work on multiple learning places and increased implementation in secondary education is an important topic. Completed secondary education is the most appropriate platform to be equipped for participation in the labour market. Good trade union workers are the prerequisite for a sustainable and well-functioning society and business. An important job for the government is therefore to provide both high-quality training and that many people choose vocational training. We have a great need for skilled labour in the future, both in the private and public sectors. As the questioner says, of course, it is important that central government takes its share of responsibility for multiple learning places, fully in line with the private sector. In 2010, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Renewal and Administration carried out a survey of the potential of more apprentices in all central government establishments. The survey shows with some reservations that there is a potential for more apprentices. About half of the state establishments reported an increase potential. In order to take responsibility for the activities of the central government, the government decided for 2011 to include a pooling of its letters of allocation with the aim of increasing the number of apprentices. The number of apprentices by subject shall be set out in the annual reports. In the light of the surveys carried out and the follow-up of joint management activities in the current year, developments will be followed up in the governance dialogue between each department and the underlying establishments. We aim to increase the number of apprenticeship places in central government. At the August 2010 survey, environmental management had two teaching places in the ICT service sector in the Staten Kartverk. It was considered possible to increase with two additional places of learning up to the autumn of 2012. Most of the subjects in which vocational training is provided are in industry, crafts and service subjects. The environmental management does not have many tasks or employees working in practice in these areas. The effectiveness of ICT services in enterprises and the changes in the interface between processing and purely office tasks create challenges for finding more suitable teaching places. The joint presentation by the Ministry of Knowledge on an increase in the number of apprentices in the country is otherwise included in the Ministry of the Environment's 2011 letter of award to all underlying agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e773	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I find it positive that one has gone in and made concrete assessments when it comes to the possibilities of getting more apprentices. But now it is also true that both the counties and the municipalities are large employers. Is there a signal or an active strategy for these bodies or management levels to assume their obligations as apprentices?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e780	As the questioner is certainly aware, this is not my professional responsibility. However, I take it for granted that corresponding signals are also sent to the local government sector that it is desirable. Now, by doing things right yourself, the state can be an example for others. But I assume you also make such a recommendation to the municipal sector. Otherwise, taking in apprentices, as the questioner also says, is a very important and positive thing. Many students have problems with the purely theoretical subjects and want practical vocational training. Then you have to make the best possible arrangements. In addition, many of Norway’s professions have the highest recruitment needs in the years to come, so this is good for both students and for Norway as a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e791	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘The whole of the West stood up in revolt against new proposed state guidelines in the coastal zone. On 25 March 2011, the government introduced new rules that have been positive for Sunnhordland, but for neighbouring municipalities of Haugesund, Tysvær and Karmøy in Rogaland there have been minimal adjustments. In particular, the location of Tysvær appears strange and is in my opinion in the wrong category. How does the Council of State justify this discrimination, and is he willing to make adjustments for Haugesund, Karmøy and especially Tysvær?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e800	I followed with a certain wonder the line change between the questioner and the municipal minister earlier today, and as I could record it, there were two fundamental issues that the questioner had not gotten along at that time. One was that the red-green government has now done what the Bondevik government has done, and so the Right never managed to get involved, namely to make a real differentiation of the country and thus make it easier to expand into Norwegian branches, while maintaining a strict regime in the Oslofjorden. It is not the strict regime in Oslofjord that is the new one here; the new one is the geographical differentiation. I think that the Right should give the Red-Green Government credit because we have done what the Right couldn't do. The second, which is also a little strange that the questioner has not got along with it, is that the new guidelines that the Prime Minister, the Minister and I have presented, have generally been very well received along the coast – as I have been able to record it. We have had positive reactions in leadership positions in many important district newspapers, and there has been little noise associated with them. So the general reception has been good. I think that's precisely because you've seen that this has been a reasonable grip. But the questioner can of course be right that there are limitations in how to do it. When we chose to exempt the six Sunnhordland municipalities Austevoll, Bømlo, Fitjar, Stord, Sveio and Tysnes, it is because they are part of a pilot project with differentiated beach zone management. They have received approval of a cross-municipal planning cooperation project. This work runs until 2014 and will then be assessed. So it's a positive gesture to these municipalities, because they've actually taken good action and are part of this project. The location of municipalities has otherwise been carefully assessed, and we are not making any changes now, but of course we will have to evaluate and assess the need for revision of the guidelines at a later stage. So the questioner specifically asks about Tysvær. I'm glad he's separating Tysvær from Haugesund and Karmøy, but Tysvær has also been very thoroughly evaluated. The conclusion reached is that Tysvær is a municipality with a relatively small beach area available, but with an attractive landscape, and it is a municipality that needs to be seen in connection with the rest of the Haugesund region, which is an area with significant land pressure. Unfortunately, it also borders municipalities like Sveio and Wind farmland, which you will certainly feel natural to compare with, and which are located in the lowest category in terms of pressure. But these kinds of boundaries, where no one will feel perfectly satisfied, I think it is a necessity to divide Norway into three groups. Had we stayed as under the Bondevik government with only one group, it would have been easy, but when we're going to have this differentiation, in which I thought the Right was interested, we're going to have this kind of demarcation problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e811	Statsrådet Solheim is not quite satisfied that the Right, as he says, did not ‘get over’ to get state guidelines for the beach zone when we were in government. Well, we're not going to do that the next time we get into government. In fact, the Storting rejected a Right proposal last week that we should not have government planning guidelines, either in the beach zone or elsewhere, because we take local self-government in a much more serious way than the Center Party should have done, and SV has never done. With regard to what Navarsete State Council said for a short time ago is a statement of trust to the Sunnhordland region, which got this as a trial project, we actually want all over 430 municipalities in Norway to have a trust statement, so that they can decide for themselves, without any objections being raised by the county council. Then I had a question to the Council of State Navarsete about office objections without an inspection. What does the State Council of Solheim think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e821	Let me first say that the difference between the Bondevik government and the Red-Green government is not that there were no guidelines for the beach zone under the Bondevik government, but we were the ones who introduced it. There are two significant differences between the Bondevik government and us. One is that we are trying to enforce the guidelines that also existed under the Bondevik administration. The second is that we have differentiated the coastal zone policy, so that now there are three groups: the peripheral municipalities of one group, the group of municipalities with – let's say – a medium but significant pressure on the development areas, such as the Haugesund area, for example, in the second group and the Oslo soil of the third group. That's when I want to come back to the fact that we've done what the Right is talking about, and should get paid for it, instead of screwing it up. I don't want to interfere in the details of what the statesmen do, but will always encourage that inspection is a good thing to do when making decisions. The more you know about something – whether it's the county or the central authorities – the better it is. So it's a strong wish for an inspection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e826	It is rather strange to hear a state council claim that dividing the country into three categories strengthens municipal autonomy, when the Right option is that municipalities can decide this for themselves. This means that you can have the categories that local businesses, local residents, voters, advisers and technical establishments themselves find useful. You have to have been a party leader for a little too long in SV in order to say that it is local self-government. The guidelines are as follows: ‘Old plans allowing for development contrary to the guidelines should be reviewed or repealed.’ It's about the municipalities we're talking about. In the case of people who, a few years ago, were admitted to the cabin, the plot for cabin expansion or a travel facility for other things, does this now mean that the Ministry of the Environment is going to raise several objections because of these plans, or can landowners who have already received approved plans actually sleep well at night, in the belief that they are actually allowed to build what they have been allowed to build?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e840	First of all, I hate to have to be arrogant, but I have to do the adult education to say that it is not the Ministry of the Environment that makes the objections; it is the statesmen who raise the objections. Then we treat them, and in almost all cases there will be a local consensus between the county and the municipalities, in a few cases it will come to us. But what the questioner is now saying is a firm confirmation of what I've been saying in the Stortinge all along, that the Right has failed its history. For what he says is that the Right now stands for something quite different than they stood for under the Bondevik administration. That is what I have been saying over and over again from Stortinget's pulpit, that the Right Norway knew under Børge Brende – and for that matter also under the Minister of Environmental Protection from the Christian People's Party – was a Right that took the environment seriously in a good deal of things, and that also carried out a good deal of things. The new Right we now know is a Right that does not implement that policy, but that stands for a completely different and new policy. Then it should be said to the voters in an honest way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e849	We go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e856	I will ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘Senior analyst at OECD Michael Davidson points to four school factors that provide good results: discipline, teacher behaviour, parental exposure and a good student-teacher relationship. At the same time, we know that unrest, strife and disrespect for the teacher steal about a year of teaching from Norwegian students. In view of this, will the government prioritise the development of a school-based post-secondary education offer in classroom management and contribute to the provision of this to all schools and teachers in the country during 2012?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e865	I had such an incredible desire to ask for a reply to the previous question, but then the release of the presidency did not make it possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e870	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e873	We therefore answer another very important question, and it is about what Svein Harberg has raised. We are very aware – and it is well documented as well – that there is a link between the academic achievements of the students and the learning environment they have. We also know that there are great differences between schools, and that many teachers do a very good job and are good class leaders. I expect that Svein Harberg and I will agree. Analyses from NOVA suggest that strengthening the learning environment can both improve the performance of pupils in general and help reduce the differences in performance between pupils. Many teachers in Norway have very good relations with their students. A very high proportion of youth students in Norway experience fair, interested and listening teachers. The 2009 PISA survey shows that three out of four students at the 10th stage are well compatible with most teachers. About half of the students agree that the teachers are interested in how they feel and that they really listen to what they say. These figures confirm that we have a good starting point, but of course still challenges in Norwegian school. The 2010 student survey shows that students are largely comfortable with the teacher. The students at the 7th stage are consistently the most positive, and the students at the 10th stage are the most negative in terms of well-being with teachers. This gives rise to a particular youth effort. Trouble and anxiety inhibit learning and are a problem in Norwegian classrooms. 40 pst. by the students, there are troubles and concerns in the hours. The proportion of students who say that the teacher has to wait a long time before the students settle down, and that it takes time before they get help, has fallen from 42 pst. in 2000 to 34 pst. in 2009. This means that a better job is now done with this problem around the schools. A good class leader handles troubles and turmoil, including: through a good structure of teaching and clear expectations for students. The teacher's work as a leader is the single factor that is most relevant to the learning environment and the learning outcomes. This is why the role of the teacher in the message that we are now putting the last hand in the field of youth is crucial. Class management is also something that is specifically mentioned there. I think the most important thing about class management is to have a good teacher training at the bottom, it's about having guidance for new teachers when they get to a school, and it's about having a collegial relationship, so you have an exchange of experience and a management at school that all the time pushers on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e892	Thanks to the Council of State for a thorough and good response, which very much underlines the need to put this on the agenda. I think we're all going to assume that in the fight for better teachers and better learning, we haven't focused the most on class management. We've focused a lot on school management and on good teachers, but when the teachers of over half of the students in Norwegian school themselves say they don't master the needs of the students in the class situation, there's a situation we have to take seriously. The advice of the senior analyst in the OECD is that this should be prioritised. I hear now that the Council of State has very good grounds to follow it up, but I would like an answer to the following questions: Will one now make sure that exactly this measure, which can probably give quick results, will be prioritised when school is going to be invested in the next budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e901	I can't fully see into the glass ball as to what the government budget for 2012 looks like, but let me say this: we now have a comprehensive five-year programme in the Education Directorate, which is about better learning environment. A very important part of it is class management. Because it's absolutely right, as the representative Harberg says, that this is something that the teachers themselves raise. There's a big difference between having a natural authority that makes you get a class to calm down in three minutes, compared to being one that has to fight with the class all the way. It is amazing how to share experiences and learn about this. So I agree with what is the questioner's starting point, that it should be school-based. And then I'm going to make sure that this becomes a theme all the way – the entire course – from teacher training, to guidance, to the development that's going to take place in each school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e908	I can promise that I too will follow and press. And then I wasn't so surprised that I didn't get any budget leaks here today. That's the way the system is. But I have to be allowed to challenge the Council of State on a little bit more, because that's how the Council of State has focused a lot on class size or group size. There's probably a challenge in what's now said by Michael Davidson, because he actually prioritizes this. He says, ‘Strengthening the quality of teachers and school leaders is a better investment than investing in fewer students in classrooms.’ It is based on the fact that they cannot see concrete results from having fewer students in the classes, but that they see results in terms of class management and the good teacher. It might be a challenge for the Council of State to turn around a little bit on the priorities here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e920	It's true that one good teacher is better than two bad teachers, but I'm sure we can both get quality and have ambitions to recruit more people to work at school. Even the best teachers report to me that they do a better job if they have a little fewer students to focus on than is the case, especially when it comes to youth, today — with 30 students in many classes. What's on the government platform, and I'm working on finding a good solution, is not a new class division figure, but a resource related to the school that ensures a maximum number of students per teacher. This means that you have opportunities to juggle a little bit more with the size of the groups, depending on how the school and the student composition are.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e927	The size now goes to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e934	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Håbrek to the Minister for Culture, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e937	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The report of the Committee on Culture sets out several good proposals for strengthening cultural schools, so that we can get better and more comparable offers across the country. Will the Government follow up the recommendations of the Committee on Culture and Culture with concrete measures, or is it the municipalities alone that are to ensure that the government's promises to strengthen the cultural schools are fulfilled?»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e946	Many children and young people are waiting to become students at the cultural school. The big paradox is that the more places we get and the better the offer, the longer the queues become. Demand is increasing as the reputation of how good cultural education can be. But it is that the scope, content and price are now a local issue. Culture School is a good tool in school and municipal development. Many Norwegian municipalities have come a long way in their work, and today the cultural school stands out more places as local resource centres for children, young people and the elderly, for school and cultural life, for integration and health. The state resources for the cultural school system were included in the framework grant to municipalities, by the Bondevik II government, in 2004. The cultural school is currently a municipal scheme, funded by municipal grants and parental payments. The Ministry of Knowledge budget grants grants for development activities in cultural schools. This means that grants for the development of music and cultural schools aim to contribute to the development of the provision of music and cultural education in municipalities by stimulating the activity and development of good models of content, organisation and cooperation locally. The beneficiary is Norwegian Cultural School Council. The target group is cultural schools carrying out development projects in the municipalities. For 2011, the allocation is just below the 10 million mark. kr. The grant to organisations – Cape. 225 – aims to stimulate public and non-governmental organisations to implement actions that contribute in different ways to quality development and to improving the learning environment in training, in line with strategies and actions. Norwegian School of Culture Council is one of the organisations that receive grants under this chapter, and here they receive further approx. 6.5 million. kr. The Government, through the Cultural Promise II, would contribute to further strengthening the municipal cultural schools. The allocation of 40 million. kr in development funds in both 2010 and 2011 is just an expression of this. The response was very large last year. We received more than 400 applications. 200 projects ended up receiving support in 2010. The scope and size of the projects varied, but mainly the municipalities were behind the applications. Some major projects are of national interest and are therefore priorities. Some will develop a cultural pool and aim at developing cultural schools to become local resource and competence centres for the population of the municipality. Some rates specific to SFO and school, and allow pupils at different stages to be involved in many different activities. I hope that through these projects we can have good experience that can develop the cultural school further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e967	I thank you for the answer, but I'm probably a little surprised by the content. It is the case that the Council of Culture Schools has sent a letter to the Department and to the relevant committees, which have presented a proposal to meet the government's own promises and which is considered equivalent to 120 million. kr already next year, with further escalation. So concrete is actually the government's own policy, which means that you follow up. When I hear the response of the Council of State, I almost have to bring forward the Cultural Promise II, where it is said very clearly: ‘A cultural school promise shall be made so that all children wishing to receive a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price.’ Is it still at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e981	It's part of the platform we're running on, and of course it's at work. It can't be a surprise for such an experienced representative as Hope that I don't bring budget leaks or other things here and now. The report provided by the sample to us has been consulted. The report proposes a number of instruments in relation to the cultural school, such as the former government. I think it was only SV who was opposed to incorporating the earmarked funds into the cultural school, when it was done in 2004, which I do not expect there to be any broad majority to reintroduce today. But the report also contains many other ambitious plans for raising the cultural school. I am particularly concerned that children who do not have an offer today, or who do not even have parents who put them in line for the cultural school, will have access to this. So I think the work done against the SFO and the school leisure system is particularly interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e988	I did not expect any budget leakage here we stand at the beginning of April. I am fully aware of that. But I had expected a response from the Minister of Knowledge, where she refers to the government's own cultural promise and shows a way forward to actually fulfilling it in the big-time and up to 2014, as the Cultural Promise II has said. That's what the government's own policy is, that it's going to implement such a promise, and then the Council of Culture Schools has helped the government on its way by promoting a proposal on how to do it. Then there's certainly more ways to the goal. But when the Council of State answers without even referring to such a promise, which in fact says that ‘all children who want it get a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price’, then I am surprised. So I choose to clarify my question once again, and ask, is it true that the promise is actually going to be carried out in the magnification period?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e995	When we have it clearly defined in our own government platform how we should follow up this point in relation to the cultural schools, the representative Hope can take it quite calmly. We're working on this. But this sample, which is the starting point of the question, has produced a cultural school report with very big ambitions, far beyond what is on the government platform. This is now at the hearing, and we get the hearing opinions in these days. Once we've gone through them, we're going to come back to how we're going to follow it up. But a central proposal from them is just to reinstate the designation of the Bondevik II government, and I have my doubts as to whether there is a majority to reinstate it. In addition, it is actually the case that municipalities continue to give priority to cultural schools when we see them as a whole, but there are very large differences between municipalities in the provision of cultural education, and it is a topic that is very often addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1002	Then we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1009	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1012	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘At school start in 2010, the government launched the New GIV, a partnership between the school authorities and Nav, for more people to complete secondary education. Schools on the construction site have been very successful and got young people, immigrants and long-term unemployed aged 19 to 40 out of the job queue and into secure jobs after exams and diplomas, but in January 2011 it ended. The Minister for Labour now waives all responsibility. How will the Council of State explain that New GIV ended up in a bomb stop for School on construction site, and that Nav is jumping off the action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1021	First, a little bit of clarification. It is not the case, as the representative Aspaker points out in his question, that there is a direct link between the government's new GIV initiative and the school on site action. The new GIV was launched in the autumn of 2010 and is composed of two projects targeting young people at risk of falling out of — or not applying for — higher education. One project, the ‘Transitional project’, aims to strengthen efforts towards young people from 10th grade and two years in time. The second project, the follow-up project, targets young people aged 15-21 who are not trained or working. The project shall provide this group of young people with an offer of a training course, labour market action or a combination thereof. The project Schools on Construction Site, now called Practice-based Training, has existed long before the government’s New GIV bet. The reason why Nav Oslo does not wish to continue the project in 2011 is due to the fact that only nine out of 21 persons completed the education cycle in 2009 and 2010. Nevertheless, Nav’s costs were substantial – more precisely at the top of 3 million. kr in addition to individual benefits. The rate of non-response is high and the total cost is therefore very high compared to other training schemes. Based on this, Nav Oslo has made an overall assessment of the priority implementations of good use of space, a larger number of participants in activity and less in-flight non-response. Targeted actions are important, preferably in cooperation with the construction industry. At the same time, Nav must constantly evaluate individual actions to see how we can achieve the best possible results. This is important for the overall design of the response mechanisms, a design that takes care of all Nav users.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1032	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I'm a little surprised that you're now making it a main point that New GIV shouldn't necessarily be combined with, or absorbed, School in construction site. I thought in a way that the New GIV was about a broad set of actions, where it is incredibly important that the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Labour really talk closely together, that we are open to new initiatives, and that we simply try to learn from what has been done by previous efforts in the field to complete more. So I want to challenge the government council on the following: what makes it clear that things have gone wrong at the end of school on construction site? The truth is that the measures have been implemented for a 12-year period, and the feedback has been that this has been a very successful project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1039	I repeat that I believe that this is actually due to a misunderstanding. The point is that New GIV is very important – I am the first to stress this – and I fully agree with the cooperation that the representative outlines between working life, education and practice areas, which is also based on New GIV. But then we have this concrete project, which is within a kind of labour market measure that we have had for a long time, which thus turns out not to be a good project. The hub must constantly use its resources in a good way. If not, I'm going to get criticism from another team. Assessments have been made regarding the large drop-out and the large costs per job, and it has been found that this is no longer something to be put into, compared to other projects. The reasons why a person has now had greater non-response than before may be many, but one of the reasons is that one has to do with a very difficult, marginal, group of young people, which is not enough – both the project organisers and Nav – have been able to motivate them to carry out the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1046	This is certainly a difficult group. This is a group you've caught up with, maybe not at the moment they fell out of high school, but after they had gone there for a few years. The age of these varies a little bit. But the reason that many of these people fall out of high school is because they get an offer for a third year of addition instead of an apprenticeship, because there's not been enough apprenticeship to pick up. So if you don't want to continue school on construction site, will the Council of State take the initiative to increase the state's position and contribute to the creation of apprenticeships, perhaps looking at other measures that motivate both the construction industry and others to provide more apprenticeships? It may well be the most important measure that can be taken to complete more people in traditional occupations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1053	Yes, now I think we're beginning to discuss something that has a future ahead of us, because to discuss a project where you have a major non-response, I don't think it's a point in itself. But to discuss how we can make sure that we can reach this youth group best, I fully agree is important. New GIV is one of those things, and also the cooperation between Nav, school, education and workplaces is that. The Minister of Knowledge and the Government are now working hard to get more apprenticeships in place. One of the reasons why you also actually thought that this project that we're talking about here, maybe it was a project you shouldn't pursue, was that it could be in competition with apprenticeships. When you saw such a big failure, you thought it was not a right way to go. But I fully support the ambitions of the representative. I believe that saying that it is this project that should have been carried on in this respect would be a poor use of the public and taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1064	‘Recently, there has been a focus on shortcomings in new roads. The newly built E18 is like the mountain and valley tracks after a winter. New European roads are being built without a mid pulley. On the E6 road is built with a mid-drawing and tunnel without. The same tunnel is undersized in terms of traffic and traffic growth and must be supplemented in a few years' time by a new tunnel. New road projects – quality, traffic dimensioning and traffic safety measures – clearly need to be addressed more thoroughly and information improved. How will the Council of State ensure this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1071	Let me first refer to the answer I gave to the representative Sortevik's question No. 903 in February 2011. It is stated that I have commissioned the State Road Service to take a closer look at today's demand for the minimum traffic volume of 8 000 vehicles in the daytime for the dimensioning year for the establishment of mid-traffics on new roads. I have also asked the Road Directorate to consider opening up for greater flexibility for setting up a parking lot on existing roads, so that there is a greater emphasis on today's emergency situation than today. Telehiv and tunnel standard was the theme of the oral Question Time on 30 March 2011. I refer to what was said in that context. New route televia should not occur. It's unacceptable. The question of one or two running in the Øyer-Tretten tunnel was carefully considered in the Committee on Transport and Communications' consideration of the matter in spring 2009, inter alia. through several questions. In the setting, there was no party that had suggestions that it should be built two races, and the Stortinget joined the solution that is now under construction. On page 79 of the current year's bus bill, i.e. Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011, in addition, it is done more closely for the practicalisation of the requirements of the tunnel safety regulation. Otherwise, let me remind you that all new road projects with a cost estimate of over 200 million. kr will be submitted to the Stortningen for decision through the annual government budget. In addition, all toll projects are submitted to Stortinget. Both the budget proposals and the toll proposals provide a more detailed description of the projects, including: be made good in terms of traffic volumes and choice of road standard. In practice, this means that all major road projects are submitted to the Treatment Survey before plant start. For the largest projects, external quality assurance (IS2) is also carried out before the projects are submitted to Stortinget. Until today, all projects with a cost estimate, i.e. a governance framework, have over 500 million. kr are through KS2. This limit is now increased to 750 million. kr. In my view, a thorough treatment of new road projects with good information for Stortinget is being carried out. Therefore, I cannot see the need to implement measures that may increase the planning time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1086	Thanks for the answer. The first part is good. If we can get a less rigid practice of traffic-related legislation so that we get safe roads, that's good. The second part – if we get good information on the issues that come to Stortinget – I am more doubtful about it. We have two European road projections in relation to toll use: Prop. 57 S for 2010–2011, E39, and Prop. 53 S for 2010–2011, E6. Nothing has been said about road safety measures that have been assessed and are to be implemented. In fact, no mention has been made of the type of road being built – that is, Prop. 53 S – the traffic for which the road is built and the road safety measures to be implemented. It is only after questions are discussed in the committee that we are given full information on what is done and, in particular, what is not done. Does the Council of State think this is satisfactory information?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1093	Let me say first when it comes to greater flexibility: there I expect answers from the Road Directorate during the spring – just so it's said that there's nothing packed away for too long. So to the other part, which relates to E39 and E6: I have noticed these questions, and I am very pleased that we can have this exchange during the proceedings in Stortinget – that one can ask questions, and that we can give adequate answers. The thing that has been about doing for me in both of these cases, and that is stated in the propositions, has been to ensure greater road safety, and make it as quick as possible. In one case the old road is used as a walking and cycling road, in the other we know it's a very dangerous road, E6, as it is today... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1100	Thanks again for the follow-up response. One thing is that the Stortinget and the Committee are given the opportunity to embark on a project when there is toll financing and the project comes to Stortinget, but it is also a question of how the department's transparency, governance and control are compared to the Road Directorate. How far does the Directorate of Roads have in terms of building new road projects? Is there a clear standard requirement on new roads, or was such standard requirements actually removed from the road code in 2007, as I understood that the road network wanted? Will the absence of quality requirements for new roads bring us faster and safer to the goal of good and safe roads across the country? Is it good use of money that we do not have requirements for standards on new roads being built? High requirements are imposed on road users and on vehicles. It must be reasonable for similar strict and clear requirements to be imposed in the construction of a new road.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1109	Let me first say – and actually with a smile – that I believe that the Directorate of Road, perhaps especially in the case of the E6 west of Alta, will be able to prove that contact with the Department has been very close to holding on one side the progress that was expected, and on the other hand to have what is to ensure that a good case is put before the Storting. Winter has been hard on the Norwegian road. In the light of the events in winter, it will be natural to go through the new normals, i.e. the tightening up that took place from 1 January 2011 to assess whether there is a need for further improvements. Then, of course, in the light of the questions about these two roads, E39 and E6, the two things, I want to be very careful about how things are talked about in matters that come to the Storting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1120	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport a question which probably also interests the President: ‘When can the start of remaining deployment of E18 in Inner Eastfold begin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1127	As indicated in the 2011 State budget, State resources have been set up for the possible start of construction in 2011 at the Melleby–Momarken Parsel on E18 in Østfold. It is also indicated by the State budget that the Ministry will present its own proposal on the development and financing of E18 on this route as soon as there are sufficient clarifications. The Ministry of Transport is currently preparing such a proposal. I would like to underline that this is a high priority and that a proposition will be made as soon as practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1134	Thanks for the answer. There is nothing that will please me more than if the start-up and further expansion of the E18 can happen, and I think that will also please the Council of State. According to the Smälen, which is the locality of this area in Eastfold, the State Road Service says they can publish the tenders on this section as the State Council mentions, Middleby–Momark, as soon as possible, but it is absolutely dependent on the fact that it comes as a matter for the Stortinget, and that decisions are taken before 1 June, so that we do not have a postponement of start-up to next year. This is, of course, the main road to and from Europe. It is a tribal road, and the Council of State said that even though it was now a plant stop in the development – i.e. in relation to the opening on 23 November – it could start already this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1143	As I underlined, the work is highly prioritised. I have noticed that the Swedish Road Administration's various project leaders are good drivers at local level to get the projects moving. That's good. This is a matter of warning to come to Stortinget in May. The work is demanding in many ways – I will come back to it hopefully for the next minute. I have so far not informed the Storting that there is a need to change the schedule, but let me stress that a proposition on the E18 route between Melleby and Momark will have to discuss more than the development and financing of this particular parcel. Here are also other questions that need to be considered. Hence, this work takes some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1150	What worries me is the Council of State's response to possible start-up in 2011, and that there are now other issues. Very familiar were the planning documents to be ready, and the Council said on 23 November that there would be a break in the construction, but that it would start in 2011. It is clear that both businesses and passengers now experience that there is once again uncertainty about the start of construction of the remaining route. And I have to say that I wish the Council of State was more willing to also open up extensions over longer distances, so that we don't just treat and finance 7-8 km every time we get a main road and a tribal road to and from Europe finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1155	I visited Minnesund-Dal yesterday. This is now one of several examples of extending longer distances. There's talk of 19 km, with an extension of two years. I want more of these projects. When it comes to Melleby–Momark, I am busy getting started as quickly as possible. There is no reason to doubt it, nor is there cause for concern. I just have to say that the impact of a modified toll collection scheme on the whole of E18 in Eastfold is one question – it is then both a matter of discussing the traffic base and the toll revenue – but it will also be important in this proposition to make a reference to the choice of standard at whole E18 in Eastfold precisely because, as the representative says, this is a road in and out of the rest of Europe. It is important to me that central aspects of the case are treated as well as possible in a proposition that I have notified to the Stortinget in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1167	This question, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1170	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘I refer to the fact that Health South-East has now entered into an agreement with the Feiring Clinic on Ablation Treatment. The feiring clinic is officially approved and hospital choice is free in Norway. Does this mean that patients from other health regions can also apply for this offer and that it is made available on free hospital choice.no?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1179	All patients referred to specialist healthcare are entitled to choose a hospital. It follows from the Patient Rights Act. This right applies to all public hospitals as well as private hospitals that have entered into an agreement with a regional healthcare company that grants the patient such a right of choice. As the representative refers to, Health South-East has entered into an agreement with the Fairing Clinic on Ablation Treatment. The agreement is limited to 200 such treatments in 2011, according to Health South-East assessment of their responsibilities to provide sufficient capacity. It is important to stress that patients’ right to free hospital choice is limited by the volume of the contract. However, if the private provider has only one regional health service provider, as is the case for the Feiringklinik, patients have the right to choose there as part of the free hospital choice. This means that patients who need ablation treatment can choose the Feiring Clinic, regardless of the region in which they live. However, I take the view that the other regional health establishments make a similar assessment of the need for ablation treatment and provide sufficient capacity. It is the Health Directorate that operates the Information Service Free Hospital Choice. The offer of ablation treatment has not yet been published on these websites. The Health Directorate will present the waiting time for this offer on the website as soon as possible. As is known, the capacity for ablation treatment is too low in Norway. Therefore, in June 2010, the Ministry asked for capacity to be built up. It takes time to build up this offer. Investment must be made in expensive medical devices, while taking time to train heart specialists in the ablation method. The Health Directorate has clearly stated that patients in need of ablation treatment should not wait more than six months. Therefore, in October 2010, we instructed regional health companies to ensure that patients who are entitled to such treatment are offered this under their own control or through agreements with private institutions that have such an offer, whether in Norway or abroad. I am concerned that these patients receive a treatment offer in line with national recommendations. In this year's mission document, we have asked for a separate report on this work by the first tertiary in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1194	I am pleased that the Council of State now confirms that patients have the right to choose the Feiring Clinic as part of the free hospital choice, although she says that it must be done through agreements with healthcare companies under their own regime or through agreements with private institutions. The Council of State also agrees that there is a need for a lot more capacity and the Fairing Clinic has more capacity. They only operate every two weeks. So they can double their capacity, which will help significantly reduce waiting lists for cardiac fibrillation patients. What will the Council of State, in concrete terms, do in relation to regional health enterprises to ensure that this capacity is exploited? They do not take any health professionals from the public sector in Norway, because they use non-resident specialists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1201	I have been concerned that this group of patients should be treated. That is why I asked healthcare companies last June to assess their capacity. It was calculated that we needed approx. 1 400 treatments in Norway per year. In October, I instructed regional health companies to build up this capacity, or, if they could not provide patients with treatment within six months, which was the assessed maximum period – it may be that some people have to have treatment earlier than that – they would have to buy this capacity either at private clinics in Norway or abroad. As far as I'm aware, it's just the celebration clinic that has built up this offer outside the public hospitals. I have to say that I now assume that regional health companies are following this up. However, this is a matter that is important to me. That's why, of course, I'm going to follow it closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1208	I'm glad that the Council of State says she's “foreseeable”, but we've heard that a lot in the last few years when I've taken up the situation for this patient group. But the agreement with the Feiring Clinic can therefore be doubled if it is willing to do so, so that the Feiring Clinic is not considered a competitor of the public offer. I now expect contact from the other regional health companies to also be made, so that the capacity at the Feiringklinik is used. There are several thousand who are in line, who are ill-appointed, who could come back to work if they receive treatment in time. Then the Minister of Health has introduced a so-called 'treatment guarantee'. My question is whether this six-month treatment guarantee also applies to cardiac fibrillation patients on the waiting list or whether it applies only to new patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1217	We have asked that this waiting list be reviewed. Of course, it takes some time, but at the same time we've been very clear that six months is the maximum time someone should wait. I think I can say with a lot of weight that I'm as busy as the representative, Sjøli, that we're going to succeed in this offer, because I'm also aware that this is about many people of their best age who can come back to a normal life, if they get this treatment. That's why it's important. So now all regional health companies are building up their capacity. The celebration clinic is a very good supplement, which Health South-East now uses because they have had too low capacity – and it takes time to build up – and which, of course, the others have to consider if they cannot meet their own needs in their own region.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1224	Questions 6 to 9 have been answered in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1231	‘In 2009, farmers had, on average, NOK 136 000 in entrepreneurial income from agriculture, NOK 11 000 less than one year earlier. 28 pst. of farmers were without positive agricultural incomes, while 8 pst. had agricultural incomes of NOK 400000 or more. What will the Council of State do to improve the functioning of Norwegian farmers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1238	As far as I can see, the basis for the question by the representative, Mr Träldal, is from the statistics of enterprise income of the Central Statistical Office. I have recently answered a similar written question on the basis of the same statistics. It was put to you by Per Roar Bredvold, who was also from the Progress Party. I refer to my written reply to this. The agricultural holdings included in the SSB statistics cover all those with entrepreneurial income from agriculture. These vary greatly in size and production. It includes everything from hobby production to enterprises with a million turnover. This is the main reason for the variation in entrepreneurial income from agriculture for different types of uses. As I also say in my written reply to the representative, Bredvold, tax data is not very well suited to measuring the profitability of business. For example, individual agricultural enterprises may: share the income between spouses. This level may also be influenced by other tax adjustments. The average agricultural income fell by NOK 11 000 from 2008 to 2009, due in particular to: difficult harvest conditions for grain production resulting in low crops. In my written reply to the representative, Mr Bredvold, I also explain that the agricultural budget item on income development in agriculture is better suited to assessing the results of policy than tax data. I could have presented a lot of figures that show that the incomes of agriculture have been lifted during this government. For the sake of comparison, I shall only show that remuneration for labour and equity in the total accounts of agriculture, including: The crop figures are normalised, went up by 25 400 kroner, or l3,4 pst. from 2008 to 2009. One of the main projects of this government has been to ensure national food production, and the cultural landscape, through robust and sustainable Norwegian agriculture. A satisfactory level of income and a security of income development are important prerequisites for achieving this. Here the government can show good results so far, and it is my ambition that we should achieve more. It is a little surprising to experience that the representatives of the Progress Party seem to be so concerned about the incomes of agriculture. As late as in the 2011 budget, the Progress Party proposed to cut the agricultural agreement by 7.7 billion. kr. It involves a cut in remuneration for work and equity for agriculture of about 140000 kroner per year in a single year. In the government platform, the government says that we should further develop income and welfare policies in agriculture. We have delivered significant results in this area every year, but I would like to achieve even better results. Farmers are self-employed persons who adapt within the political framework they are given. Here, this government will continue the work we have started to achieve better objectives in the field of agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1253	I record that the Council of State believes that the incomes of Norwegian agriculture are not so bad. I expect that we will see when the agricultural negotiations come. I also record that one of the reasons for the variation in the entrepreneurial income is that a large part of the use is hobby use. I understand that so far when you see from the SSB's numbers that you only have 13-14 pst. which is defined as full-time use. So, as the Council of State says, you run agriculture on a hobby basis. Then my question becomes: Since you run it on a hobby basis, is that why you put down three uses a day seven days a week?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1260	It is important to be aware that statistics and statistical bases are the basis for further analysis in the future. It's the Budgetary Department for Agriculture's analyses we use to define revenue. It is also agreed by the organisations. As far as industrial trends are concerned, I think we should take into account that technological development, communication and all the different social and organisational changes affect the labour intensity of agriculture, and thus also the average income, average remuneration for work and capital. It is such that we need to increase agricultural incomes, and those increases must be made both through market withdrawals and through budgetary resources. In this context, the Progress Party is the party that does not wish to use budgetary resources to any particular extent for the industry, and it will contribute to a reduction in income for the participants in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1267	It's not right to say that the Progress Party will cut. We'll do it another way. With all due respect: As long as Breck has run, namely for two periods, there has never been any further use. So that's proof that the policy of Breck has fallen to both farmers, the Norwegian people and the rest of Europe. I have a question for Breck. In yesterday's Nations, we can read that the border trade has now reached 20 billion. kr. Then my question is, when you have a border trade that's up to 20 billion. kr, and people run across the border because we have the world's most expensive milk and the world's most expensive cheese – everything in agricultural products – how will the Council of State now, towards agricultural settlement, take into account that he has such a solid commercial leak? What will Brerk do to stop the commercial leakage?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1274	First of all, I would like to stress that it is not right that the representative, Mr. Träldal, says that the Progress Party does not propose a cut. Every year, and I have been at the Stortinget since 2005, the Progress Party has proposed significant cuts in the agricultural agreement through its annual budget allocations. It's not that they just want to do things the other way. As far as border trade is concerned, it depends on many different considerations. The development of border trade includes: also because we have a higher cost level in Norway. We need to give consideration to those who produce on a different level. This leads to increased prices. At the same time, the level of charges in Norway is also higher on the basis of policy choices. It gives higher nominal prices. And at the same time, the price level of food in Norway is at some of the lowest relative level, compared to the income of most people in this country. We're going to use about 10-11 pst. of our income for food. 20–30 years ago, the share of income used for food was three–four times higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1285	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘The Authority considers that if the loss figures for 2011 do not decrease, 400 sheep farmers will graze for the 2012 grazing season. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to take grazing rights from farmers who have their income either in full or in part from this industry because of excessive losses due to current predatory policies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1294	Many animals die on pasture, for various reasons, and it is important to look at measures to reduce the suffering of animals in this context. In some areas, losses are so great that the Food Authority considers this to be irresponsible in relation to animal welfare. The reasons for the losses are many, but it is true that the representative Bredvold stresses that predators account for a large part of them. But it must also be stressed that sickness, injuries and other causes contribute to making the losses as high as they are. It is positive that the Food Authority should pay attention to animal welfare for grazing animals. I trust that the Food Safety Authority will exercise the necessary supervision and assess the appropriate measures in each case. As I see it, the Food Authority is primarily concerned that those with high losses have to try to figure out what can be done to get the loss figures down, in close dialogue with stakeholders. I would like to stress that the Food Authority has not made a decision on grazing. I still think it was unwise for the Food Safety Authority to rush with the strongest instrument we have, namely grazing, before a thorough assessment has been made in the individual specific cases. On 28 July 2006, the Minister for Agriculture and Food and the Minister for the Environment sent a letter to the public authorities responsible for the management of predators. This letter specifies how the tasks of the authorities are to be handled in order to investigate the causes of loss and to propose appropriate measures to improve the situation of grazing animals in relation to predatory hazards. It says: ‘In areas with a high risk of predatory attacks, food surveillance and local authorities must work towards effective prevention measures. The owner of the animals, the county, the municipality and the Food Safety Authority must ensure that practical solutions are found that can prevent animal tragedy and are acceptable to all parties. Pastures shall be the last resort after evaluation of other alternatives.’» Furthermore, the letter states: ‘Food monitoring must therefore contact the county as soon as possible in order to find practical solutions when an animal protection case is developing. It is important that there is a broad consensus on the solutions chosen before the Food Authority takes any decision. The expenditure on such measures shall, as far as possible, be prioritised within the budget for preventive measures in each State. It is also assumed that the county council will take rapid decisions on compensation so that the measures can be implemented.’ I therefore stress that grazing is a very invasive measure, which should be the last resort, after all other alternatives have been evaluated. If the prohibition of the use of a relevant grazing area is considered to be a proportionate measure, the Ministry assumes that the decision normally has to be limited to the part or parts of the grazing season where there is reason to believe that the hazard is most acute. I also assume that if the Food Safety Authority assesses the imposition of grazing restrictions, the decisions will be taken within the framework of the applicable law and the rulings laid down in the case law, including the judgment of the Supreme Court in the Rendalen case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1319	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret as a positive response. I believe that the Council of State and I agree that it was not wise for the Food Agency to send out this notice, and we also agree that animal welfare is important, and perhaps most importantly. But those who have received and will receive this letter claim that the damage they have suffered is due to predators and that the number of predators has been so high, and for example. Both for y'all and y'all, the number is higher than it has to be, i.e., in terms of how many animals we're going to have. And then this right-to-go thing: it's not just getting rid of gravy either, because there's a law about this. And I'm sure the Council of State also knows that there are paragraphs that say that you have a right to graze. A right to graze is valuable, and it is important for very many small and medium-sized farms to have a buff.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1326	I agree that the loss of grazing animals to predatory game and the level of conflict between predatory game and grazing interests is too high, which is also underlined by the representative of Bredvold. Therefore, the Government of the Government Declaration, Soria Moria II, has announced a number of measures to reduce conflicts. The government has also started a process towards Stortinget with a view to setting new stocking targets for wolves and bears, and our aim is to facilitate the achievement of a two-part objective, with both viable predatory game strains and grazing in the field. Now a lot of the possibilities are to get a wide deal on the predatory area, to the Stortinget. I am concerned that the Storting should follow that responsibility, and I am concerned that we should find good solutions in balance between different attitudes and in balance between different parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1331	I thank the Council of State for the answer. For those who get grazing, this is very serious. For quite a lot of small and medium-sized uses, the income you get from buffs is important, and perhaps the main reason why you have a farm. It will also have an impact on the cultural landscape, and we will not have as versatile agriculture around Norway as we have today if the buffalo are gone. And where we have buffalo, it's often in places where there are other things that are relatively marginal income opportunities for a farmer. Many farms have grazing rights, and as I said, it's not just taking it from someone. So my final question is, what will the Council of State do, concretely and very quickly, to calm them down? 400 who have either received or received a letter from the Food Safety Authority that they will lose the right to graze for 2012 if the loss figures do not go down for 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1338	As I underlined in my introduction, I strongly agree with the descriptions given by the representative Bredvold of the challenges you face in grazing, especially in relation to predatory game. It has been addressed to the Storting through the desire to stimulate a broad settlement on the predatory game side, which will ensure the two-fold objective of viable predatory game strains and grazing in the field. I have underlined that grazing is and will be – according to laws, regulations and case law – the last intervention. I have underlined to the Swedish Food Safety Authority that this is a test of other measures, other instruments first, before any one has to go to that action. It's a very serious situation if you have to take away any possibility of grazing, and I also want to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1351	This question, from the representative Jenny Klinge to the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church, has been transferred to the Minister of Industry who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1354	First of all, the question: «Twice a year, we set one hour to either winter or summer time. Several people who are researching the rhythm of sleep and the connection between this and hello, think we should go over to summer time all year round. This will have a positive effect for both people and fairy—all the time the rhythm of the dairy cows is being shipped. The fact that the rules on summer time and winter time are set out in an EU directive has been a useful argument against introducing summer time throughout the year. What action rooms do Norway have if there are multiple Stortingen to change the code here to land?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1363	The summer time has been introduced, abolished and reintroduced several times in Norway. It was first introduced in 1916. Now Norway has had summer time every year since 1980. An important reason for the introduction of summer time was the need to save energy. Energy saving has probably been less important in the industrialised world recently, but other positive effects of getting an extra hour of daylight have led to more and more countries having introduced summer time. Most European countries now switch to summer time at the same time. In 1980, all EU countries had summer time, but with different start and end times. In order to address this confusion, administrative costs could be reduced and the EU introduced its first summer time regulation in 1981. EU Directive 2000/84/EC specifies start and end of summer time. The Directive states that every five years the Commission will publish the beginning and the end of summer time for the next five years. In March 2006, the Commission published in a communication the dates of summer time up to and including 2011. Norway follows the same practice as the rest of Europe with regard to the start and end of summer time. The use of summer time is regulated by Regulation of 14 December 2007 No. 1420 in summer time. The regulation on summer time implements Directive 2000/84/EC on summer time provisions. This Directive, after I have been informed, does not open up for national adaptations, and the Directive has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1374	I thank you for your reply from the Council of State. I totally agree that summer time is positive, that one gets an extra hour of light. But I want to turn it around: instead of introducing winter time all year long, I want summer time all year round. Then one hour extra light will be given in the afternoon in winter. I want to ask the Council of State if he shares my opinion. I have checked that serious research has shown that it has consequences for some groups that the clock is set twice a year. Then I would like to mention the key rhythm of sleep, stress and irritation, and not least the fact that some people have important medicines that they need to take on a fixed amount of time. I will also learn that Iceland has the same time in summer and winter, although Iceland is an EEA member. I would like a comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1385	We have not assessed in the government to have summer time all year long. I would like to have summer all year long, well to notice, but summer time throughout the year we have not evaluated. We have assessed that the EU countries that are our main trading partners and, of course, geographical neighbours – Sweden, Finland and Denmark – are countries that we travel to often, with which we have a lot of contact, and with which it is practical to have the same system as, in summer and winter, in order to avoid unnecessary confusion at different times and not least in terms of administrative costs. We therefore have no concrete plans on the table to re-assess the summer time system. In Iceland, after my experience, it's summer time all year long. I do not know why they have had a separate provision for that. In this case, it may be further investigated whether or not opening is provided for. But we have no plans to introduce this to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1392	Thank you again for your answer. I appreciate the state council saying he can check it with Iceland. I think that makes sense. I would also like to note that Russia is an important trading partner for Norway, and from this year on, they also have summer time throughout the year. I consider the Council of State to be an excellent representative of the European Union's opponents. Gisk has stressed on many occasions that Norway can affect the EU, even if we do not become more than EEA members. There's something I'm completely in agreement with. I assume that the majority of – not only Norwegian citizens, but also EU citizens – could imagine the same time throughout the year, preferably summer time. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he will take initiatives with relevant bodies in the EU to ensure that the issue is at least properly assessed and that the matter is raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1401	I will definitely bring to mind what is the basis for Iceland having a different arrangement than the rest of us. Now, the geographical proximity of Iceland to its neighbours is a little bit different than it is, for example. between Norway and Sweden. So in everything from train routes, bus routes, office hours and border trade and many other things, it might be a little more appropriate for us to have the same change in summer and winter time as for example. Sweden than Iceland wants its neighbours. So we think that in addition to daylight in summer and energy saving, it's following our neighboring countries and reducing to a minimum the administrative costs of managing what the clock is, a lurking approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1408	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-06.ana.ud2177e1421	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
