ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e61	The representative of Trine Skei Grande, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Morten Höglund on leave from 14 March to 18 March to take part, as chairman of the Committee of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee, in meetings in Washington and in a seminar in Vancouver of the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Mr Eirin Sund from 14 March until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Akershus County: Tone Liljeroth from 14 March to 16 March for Rogaland County: Laila Thorsen from 14 March until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e101	Tone Liljeroth and Laila Thorsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e109	The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e112	I will, on behalf of Anders B. Werp, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Trine Skei Grande and myself present a proposal for a representative to amend the Norwegian authorities' handling of child abduction cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e117	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e136	The President-in-Office, Aleksandr Lukashenko, won the formal presidential election in Belarus on 19 December last year. This led to demonstrations in Minsk. The opposition accused Lukashenko of extensive electoral yoke. As a result of the demonstrations on 19 December, hundreds were arrested. Several of the President’s counter-candidates were regularly beaten up and put into prison after they participated in the demonstrations. A total of 42 people have been targeted after the 19 December demonstrations – some to participate in riots, others for organisation. The opposition was aware that Lukashenko would be victorious out of this election as well. However, all the opposition actors were generally satisfied in the run-up to the election because they had completed their election campaign without interference from the regime. Then came election day, and all optimism disappeared. With the raw and well prepared attack on peaceful demonstrators — including central opposition leaders — in Minsk after the 19 December elections, the regime in Belarus showed its true face. On 24 December the election result was announced. The electoral participation shall be 90,64 pst. According to the official results, Lukashenko received 79.65 pst. by the votes cast. International observers and election evaluations support the opposition's claim of election jacks. Unfortunately, we have to note that the election does not seem to have been conducted in a free and fair manner. What is the situation in Belarus today? According to the Helsinki Committee, the vast majority of demonstrators have received short administrative sentences and are now released. 38 people are targeted, and a further 12 are under investigation, under the rebel laws that can provide sentences of up to 15 years in prison. Among the targeted, we find six out of ten candidates for the presidential election, three journalists, party leaders, well-known youth leaders and opposition-related individuals. In the last few weeks, four have been sentenced to several years in prison — several cases are underway. Prison sentences so far are about three to four years old. These have been sentenced to participation in mass protests. The Presidential candidates and other leaders can get punishments that are much longer, because they are charged with the organisation of mass protests. There have been several evidences of abuse and torture in prisons. The lawyer of the imprisoned Presidential candidate Andrei Sannikov, like other lawyers who have assisted political prisoners, has lost his license, and there is generally very poor access to legal aid and medical care in prisons. One of the presidential candidates still in prison, Anatoly Lebedko, has been denied legal aid since December 26. The Christian Democrats in Belarus have long fought for the party's right to exist. Their leader and presidential candidate, Vitaly Rymasheuski, are among those who were arrested on the night of the election but who are later released on condition that he does not leave Minsk. On 25 February 2011, the BCD was for the third time refused its appeal for registration. At the same time, the party's activists are persecuted because they are members of a so-called unregistered organisation. Lukashenko stated in an interview he gave to the Washington Post on March 4 that the Christian Democrats probably would never be registered. They took part in the riots and are not Christian democrats in his eyes, but bandits. Thus, the people of Belarus live with human rights violations, the use of torture against oppositionals, a fear and threat climate around political opponents, repression and harassment of activists and independent media. Mobile phones of the civilian population are being monitored. Continuous searches of a number of housing and offices have been reported for activists and opposition press. Lukashenko's comments after the demonstrations on 19 December indicate that he has decided to continue his current line and that the opposition will be broken. Following the 19 December 2010 elections and subsequent events, the reactions of the international community have been strong and coherent. The EU and the United States, like Norway, have strongly condemned developments and imposed limited sanctions on Belarusian attackers with threats of extension of sanctions. On 10 March the European Parliament adopted a resolution strongly condemning the human rights violations in Belarus, the use of torture against oppositional and the climate of fear and threat facing political opponents in the country. The European Parliament calls on the Belarusian authorities to carry out a thorough and independent investigation into the reports on torture of political prisoners and to identify and punish individuals involved in such practices. Also from the strategically important neighbour of Belarus, Russia, there has been a demand to release all the opposition prisoners arrested after the demonstrations on 19 December. The Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs has made it clear that the post-election events were absolutely unnecessary and unacceptable, thus encouraging the release of the presidential candidates, journalists, human rights activists – and two Russian citizens. So far, Lukashenko seems completely unaffected by the criticism. It is therefore imperative that the pressure against his regime be strengthened. How, then, can Norway help to increase international pressure against the Lukashenko regime? What can we do to support democratic development in Belarus? Belarus must first of all get a crystal clear and consistent message: if the country wants to continue on the road to being included in the good company of free democracies, all political prisoners must be set free. Freedom of the press and freedom of expression must be respected and the opposition must be guaranteed fundamental democratic rights. The newly acquired observer status of Belarus in international forums, such as in the Baltic Sea Cooperation and the Northern Dimension of the EU, should, in my opinion, be suspended until Belarus meets these requirements. Our friends in Belarus have asked us to protest against the persecution of the opposition of Belarus, and they are asking us to urge the Belarusian authorities to stop all persecution, release all political prisoners and dissuade the sightings against them. The opposition's view of any financial penalty is naturally more divided. Christian Democratic President Vital Rymasheuski comments on this: We must understand that sanctions against Belarus, especially economic ones, if imposed unilaterally by the EU and the United States, will lead to further dependence on Russia. On the other hand, says Vital Rymasheuski, the situation is so serious now that economic pressure is the only effective way to release political prisoners. He believes it will pain the sitting regime strongly, and that in the choice between sacrificing independence or sacrificing freedom, possibly also a few human health and life, independence must be sacrificed. His conclusion is that the international community, supported by Belarus's democratic opposition, must impose financial sanctions. In the EU, too, more and more targeted financial sanctions are calling for against Belarus. Although the Belarusian opposition is divided at this point, for example: in view of very different views on relations with Russia, the opposition is at least united in its criticism of Lukashenko and his policies. However, many point out that the lack of unity in the opposition weakens the fight for democracy in that country. Nevertheless, there are many and very effective organisations in the civil society sector in Belarus. I think most people agree that we have to work for what Lukashenko might fear the most: a change. By strengthening civil society and the democratic forces that exist and that fight bravely, a gradual change will be possible. Through my work as the Nordic Council rapporteur for Belarus since 2007, I have been part of the international line, with support for the opposition and dialogue with the regime in combination with strict requirements for reform and change. This line showed clear signs of action. After 19 December, there is little evidence that it has any effect. The international community, of which Norway is part, has therefore reconsidered its line. This also applies to the Nordic Council. The course is about to be rescheduled. That's absolutely necessary. Our imprisoned friends in the opposition are crying for help. Help must come in the form of reactions, sanctions, which primarily affect the regime, not the people. Assistance must take the form of far more extensive support for human rights fighters, students, free media targeting Belarus, the opposition and all democratic forces in the country. The work of the United Nations and the OSCE requires that the Belarusian authorities be responsible for the abuses that are now taking place. It may seem that all criticisms and reactions are intriguing on Europe’s last dictator. It must not make us give up. We are talking about a country in the European cultural circle – a country that lies a few hours' flight from Oslo, a country with which we have a common history in many ways, as part of Europe, a country that belongs most to the European family. But there is one entrance ticket to the European family, and that is the respect for the European Declaration on Human Rights. It must be the foundation of both the pressure against the Belarusian regime and the message sent in the contact and dialogue that may be with the Belarusian regime. And that must be the condition for fully integrating Belarus into the European family. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How can Norway continue to contribute to increasing international pressure in order to achieve positive developments in Belarus?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e185	I would like to thank the representative Højbräten for focusing on the situation in a country in our neighbourhood that occupies many of us, namely Belarus. I would also like to take the opportunity to express recognition of the strong commitment shown by the representative over many years, which drives the Nordic Council and in other contexts to develop contacts with the Belarusian National Assembly and not least with its opposition and civil society. In recent news, developments in Belarus have come under the shadow of events in the Arab world. But although the development in Belarus has not been so dramatic, it deserves much our attention. And it's not about a country in Europe's neighbourhood. This applies, as the representative said at the end of his speech, to a country centrally in Europe, but with a regime that is remote from European values. The development of the country in recent years has not been directed. In 2008, the Belarusian authorities took several steps in the right direction. Among other things, political prisoners were released, a few independent newspapers were allowed, and international observers were invited to the parliamentary elections in the same harvest. In order to encourage further positive steps, the EU and Norway suspended their sanctions against the country, which had been introduced following the falsified elections in 2004 and 2006. Like the EU, Norway stepped up its commitment to the country, primarily through our project cooperation with forces to promote democracy and respect for human rights. However, developments in 2009 and 2010 were less encouraging. Prior to the presidential elections in 2010, the international community gave a clear message that the elections would be a lacmus test for the will of the Belarusian authorities to hold free and democratic elections. The pace of the elections was promising in and of their own accord. The opposition's candidates were given the opportunity to campaign under more free conditions than they had experienced in a long time. Again, it was invited to international election observation, and I am pleased that the Storting was also represented among the observers who attended from Norway, as the interpellant has just explained. Then the election day became a great disappointment, unfortunately. Nor did the resolution of elections come close to meeting international standards this time. As noted in the report of the international observers from the OSCE, the choice was shattered by a number of shortcomings. It showed that much remains before Belarus fulfils its commitments under the OSCE, including in the implementation of democratic elections. What happened in the wake of the elections showed even clearer the true face of power in Belarus: the brutal use of violence by the authorities to shut down the demonstrations in the evening election day, the arrests of most presidential candidates, subsequent reprisals and austerity to the opposition, the press and civil society. All of this is completely unacceptable. The representative of the Højbräten is quite right in saying that Belarus must give a clear message. Norway has also given it, and we will continue to give it. Through public statements from me and others, Norwegian views on the situation have been clearly expressed. We have joined the European decisions that have been taken on this occasion. Our position has also been communicated directly to the Belarusian authorities. As one concrete example, I can mention that my colleague, the Council of State, Aasland, took an initiative towards their European colleagues in direct contact with their Belarusian colleague. Here they took representations against students who had participated in the demonstrations against the forged election and expressed their concern about the lack of academic freedom in the country. The situation in Belarus calls for stronger responses than words alone. In line with our international partners, Norway has therefore decided on a set of concrete measures: Firstly, we have introduced targeted sanctions against Belarusian officials who have contributed to electoral fraud or who were responsible for the brutal intervention of the authorities in the demonstrations following the presidential election. These measures concern restrictions on entry and the freezing of financial resources. Secondly, we are strengthening our support for forces working for democracy and human rights. We are increasing support for such project cooperation with Belarus from 15 million. SEK in 2010 to 20 million. kr in 2011. We will continue to support civil society through project cooperation with Norwegian organisations. Thirdly, we support academic freedom. It is important that Belarusian young people are given the opportunity to develop free and critical thinking. Norway will support the Belarusian exile university in Vilnius by 6 million. kr over 2 years. I went to this university myself last week and had an inspiring meeting with students and teachers. I got a thought-provoking insight into the difficult choices these young people are facing. We hear about exiles. I've never met a university in exile, and the meeting made a strong impression. Norway will contribute to its own crisis fund for students excluded from the universities of Belarus, a fund to help them continue their studies in Vilnius. Fourth, through international forums, Norway contributes to the exercise of pressure to bring the Belarusian authorities into compliance with their international obligations relating to democracy and human rights. In Vilnius last week, Belarus was among the topics I discussed with my Lithuanian colleague. He is now also Chairman of the OSCE, which plays an important role in this context. Also in the UN Human Rights Council, we are taking up the situation in Belarus in a meeting today. In describing the situation in Belarus and the views and actions of Norway and the international community, I believe that the representative Højbräten and I are quite united. Interpellant also calls for the granted observer status in international forums to be suspended until Belarus meets the requirements we set. At this point, I cannot simply agree. I guess the international organizations that interpellant has in mind are primarily the Baltic Sea Council and parts of the Northern Dimension. Belarus was given observer status in 2009 and 2010 respectively. Both forums are important venues for practical and pragmatic cooperation of importance for countries and peoples of northern Europe. In many cases, it is in everyone's interest for Belarus to participate. One example is cross-border environmental challenges; another is the fight against trafficking in human beings. The official status of the country in these cooperation arrangements strengthens the basis for the active contribution of Belarus as well. If the country were to be excluded or to choose to withdraw, it would affect neighbouring countries as much as it would affect Belarus. The question also has even more political aspects. It is important to show that the outside world is not generally opposed to any contact with Belarus. We are critical, very critical, to the country's current political leadership and many aspects of the policies that these authorities stand for. It limits the country's integration into European cooperation and limits our bilateral relations. For example, Norway is detained with contacts at political level with the Lukashenko regime. Equally full: it is important to show that neither we nor our international partners are opponents of any contact with the country, nor with authorities at professional or local level. In our own part of Europe, both the Baltic Sea Council and the Northern Dimension are good frameworks for showing this. At the same time, I would like to remind you that Belarus has not been granted full membership, either in the Baltic Sea Council or in the Northern Dimension. This is not a connection in today's situation, nor on our part. But even lifting the country's observer status in these practical cooperation arrangements will be taking a long step towards full isolation towards the west, while there are still open doors towards the east. The isolation line has been tested against several regimes, including Belarus. This, in general, has not always worked as one could hope, nor to the authorities of Minsk. That is why this line was abandoned, and instead we have been in favour of a combination of the instruments I have just described: clear political messages, targeted sanctions against key officials and clear support for forces working for democracy and human rights. Finally, I would also like to mention the background to another aspect of our relationship with Belarus: as you know, Norway has long wanted to establish a free trade agreement between EFTA and Russia. For us, such an agreement is a natural part of the relationship with an important neighbouring country. After the preparations for such a negotiation process with Russia had started, Russia entered into a customs union with Belarus and Kazakhstan. Consequently, in order to proceed in the process with Russia, the negotiating mandate had to be extended to include the other two countries of the customs union. This does not mean that, in today’s situation, active efforts are being made to further develop trade and economic relations with Belarus. The essential thing for us is to put in place an important part of the basis for the continued dynamic development of relations with our neighbouring country Russia. Important changes need to be made in Belarus to allow Norway and Europe to develop their links in full, and I agree with the list of requirements outlined by the representative, Højbräten. Along the main lines I have just outlined, Norway is already contributing well to the international pressure to seek a positive development in the country. We'll keep doing that. There can be no doubt that we all want to see Belarus fully integrated into European and international cooperation, and that the last dictator in Europe will give way to the real will of the people. Belarus belongs to the European family. The international community is more than prepared to assist Belarus in that way. But the country's own authorities have to take this choice of value and choice. Unfortunately, they have not done so far, but for our part we will continue to work to bring that day closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e240	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for an adequate and offensive response – on most points, at least. I am pleased that Norway is strengthening its efforts to cooperate with what is of civil society in Belarus. I am pleased and proud of the role Norway assumes in relation to the university of exile. That the Foreign Minister personally has followed it up the way he has done, and that we can stand up for students who unjustly lose their rights or are harassed, in the form of this crisis fund, I think is very, very good. I believe that several Norwegian actors can contribute. I would particularly like to highlight the Norwegian Helsinki Committee, which has a very broad and good work to do in this area too. Nord-Trøndelag County has a programme that they follow up. There are also several other organisations working bilaterally. In other words, it's not about isolating the regime, but it's about how to work to promote democratic development. I believe that the restrictions and reactions to the regime's leaders should be intensified. I think it's a language that you'll understand over time. But I am probably somewhat surprised that the Foreign Minister so quickly dismisses the idea that the newly won status of this country in some international cooperation forums should be looked at. My proposal is to put it at risk, not to do some sort of isolation. I believe that we had quickly come into a very delicate situation during the parliamentary meeting of our northern dimension in Tromsø, where a Belarusian delegation was invited, if it had not been so that they were randomly invited to appear on the travel ban list that the European Union and Norway have for Belarusian authorities, and that we thus avoided their arrival. Had they come, I think it had become a political situation. I would expect it to occur in other future forums under the direction of the Baltic Sea Cooperation or the northern dimension of the EU, and that this situation should be taken over and, of course, discussed, with the breadth of partners, whether it is appropriate to allow business as usual to go into these forums in the light of developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e249	I think we can really reduce different views in this area as well, because it won't be about business as usual. I see the problem raised by the representative around the potential participation of parliamentarians in Tromsø. On the other hand, if they had come to Tromsø, they would have had a full lesson on how the parliamentary environment otherwise looks at the situation in Belarus. However, in the light of the proposal from the representative, Højbrätten, I believe that we on the Norwegian side can benefit from a exploratory round in the Baltic Council context in order to explore the positions on this matter. We are preparing a ministerial meeting here in Oslo in June – Norway has the Presidency. This was the case in front of the meeting in the Northern Dimension which was also held in Oslo, 2 November, that there were different views among the Member States on the observer status of Belarus. Among other things, it was from Poland so that they put on their green light for such participation until the meeting in Oslo was actually over. It was only after the meeting that it was opened for that kind of observership. As I said, this is also balanced with some of the pragmatic conditions in which neighbouring countries of Belarus have a direct interest in their participation, particularly in the environment and in the implementation of such projects. But I think it's an interesting question to raise, to make sure that at least the Baltic Sea Council has had the discussion in the light of the developments that are now. Otherwise, my impression in Belarus is that a rather nuanced set of instruments is needed — contact, but targeted action. It is now seen in some international contexts that it is the model used in reaction to regimes that differ from what is accepted by the international community. Total isolation is very few that go in for, because in many ways it can also strengthen authoritarian regimes. It made sense to me to meet the students at the university last week – at this European University of Humanities in Vilnius. Many of them travel back and forth between Minsk and Vilnius — and are allowed to do so — and return to work and work in Belarus after the studies. On the other hand, those who stand out for human rights and freedom and democracy during the studies have problems coming back. The very interesting, I'll almost say the breathtaking head of this university is persona non grata in Belarus and identified on a staging list of President Lukashenko. He comes to the University of Oslo's 200th anniversary in June and has every reason to be received as a man with whom we want to talk and have contact. Nor does he want full isolation, but he wants Europe's voice to be clear, and I believe that it is, and that Norway should also contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e258	Let me begin by giving tribute to the interpellant for raising this debate and for his active efforts at the Nordic Council to strengthen contact with the system-critical in Belarus. There is an effort that has been noticed. We all share the concern about developments in Belarus. While developments in neighbouring Ukraine give rise to hopes of increased respect for democratic principles, freedom of the press and human rights, the brutal abuses associated with the presidential elections in Belarus represent a serious setback. The election day and the time after was a tragic retreat after years with small steps in the right direction, for example. a more conciliatory line towards the opposition, the release of political prisoners and a more open press. The violence and arrests of a large number of demonstrators by the Lukashenko regime have revealed the brutality of the regime and lack of respect for fundamental values. The first sentence after the arrests also does not promise good for further development. The 27-year-old Vasiliy Parfenkov is sentenced to four years' imprisonment for having participated in a protest against the regime. Such abuses shall not go unnoticed. It is therefore important that the world community reacts and follows developments closely. Fortunately, there have been many reactions. And, as the Foreign Minister pointed out, more than words have been needed. At its meeting in Finland in January, the Bureau of the Nordic Council decided to postpone a planned study visit from Belarus. The President of the Baltic Sea Cooperation (BSPC) postponed his visit to Belarus. The EU issued a boycott list refusing 160 prominent Belarusian politicians and officials access to the Schengen area, an action supported by Norway. However, it is important to strike a balance in responses. I think it's right to go on about concrete measures, as the government says. I support the Foreign Minister's assessment that an isolation line is not the way to go. We should be responsible for the regime through the Council of Europe and the OSCE, to which the inter-pellant pointed. We must respond to the regime, but do not break or weaken contact with oppositional and system-critical voices in the country – rather on the contrary. It was an important signal to be represented at the State Secretary level at the conference on support for Belarusian democracy champions on 2 February this year. It's important that we increase our support for these from 15 million to 20 million. kr for 2011 and channelling funds against civil society, inter alia. through the Norwegian Helsinki Committee. Support for exile universities in Vilnius is also an important measure. Similarly, restrictions on entry and the freezing of funds are relevant instruments. It will hardly frame the regime and will not benefit anyone about the observer status of Belarus in the Baltic Sea Council itself being suspended. Practical cooperation between countries of common interest should be possible without regard to this as support for the regime. It also provides, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, an opportunity to say from what they think about the situation of parliamentarians from Belarus in the forums they had to meet. On the other hand, it would hardly be right to extend cooperation by granting Belarus observer status in the parliamentary Baltic Sea cooperation, as they have wanted, as long as the situation in the country is as it is. Through our desire for a free trade agreement between EFTA and Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan have followed through the customs union they have formed. Although such an agreement is in place, there should be no current policy to focus on the active development of economic relations with Belarus as long as the situation is as it is in the country. The relationship with Belarus has been a recurring theme of the Nordic Council meetings. Two years ago, the Council of Ministers asked the Council of Ministers to set up its own information office in Minsk, which has not been followed up. Instead, the Council of Ministers chose to develop specific guidelines for so-called Belarus activities. Emphasis is placed on supporting civil society, youth, journalists and organisations, and on cross-border regional cooperation on concrete projects between civil society and local authorities. It is also a channel that should be kept open, because it may be creating the foundation needed to build the democracy and respect for the fundamental values of this country now so badly needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e294	It is an important matter that the representative Højbråten has addressed today. This is a country that is actually quite close to Norway. It's a country with an area that's a little over half of Norway's size and with a population of almost 10 million people. We record a great deal of agreement between the political parties in Norway as regards the view of Belarus, the view of the situation of democracy and human rights in Belarus, although there are some nuances that I will come back to later. Then we must also note that Belarus has never been a democracy. There are no democratic traditions to refer to in Belarus. From being part of the Polish-Lithuanian Empire through being part of Tsar-Russia, Belarus became a Soviet republic in 1919 and then experienced 70 years of communist dictatorship. I was on a car tour in Belarus in the summer of 2007 and visited both towns and countryside, small towns, and what beats you, are the beautiful and finished-washed façades in Minsk along uliza Lenin and many of the other main streets of the Belarusian capital. But from there there is a sea of difference to the unfathomable poverty that we find in the cities, but not least in the rurals of Belarus. And this is the harsh reality of dictatorship. Keeping the population in poverty, keeping the population in ignorance, it's a classic tool for dictators around the world to hold on to power. Now that this is a country that is so close to Norway and, as also the representative of the Højbrätten was in it, so close up to Central Europe and is actually part of Central Europe, there is great cause for concern. This is a country that should play with many of the others – I kept saying – the big countries of Europe to promote European cooperation, democratic development and human rights, instead of playing the very opposite role, as they do today. I note that the Norwegian view is that the regime does not have confidence, the regime does not have respect. That's it. There is a position that applies both to the government and to the opposition parties. I think, however, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government could increase the volume of vote somewhat in terms of the criticism of the Belarusian regime. There are many reasons for this. I just have to mention someone: dictatorship-like conditions in the country are one, and the poverty and misery we experience for ordinary people in Belarus, who do not have access to either TV, radio or the Internet, and who know very little about what is going on outside their own village, and not least that Belarus is in the European cultural circle so close to Norway. We are essentially in agreement with our view of Belarus. My wish is that the government could hold a somewhat sharper tone and increase voice usage a little in its criticism of the Belarusian regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e311	The only correct description of Belarus is Europe’s only dictatorship. There is broad support in the Storting, both in practical policies, in actions and actions relating to government policies, and there is every reason to pay tribute to the commendable efforts of the representative, Højbräten, particularly through his work in the Nordic Council, to promote democracy in Belarus. Lukashenko has been in power for 16 years. In the last 16 years, 10 million whites have been kept in the dictatorship. There has been a distortion and an ever-changing rewrite of the Constitution, which has it in mind to keep Lukashenko in power forever. Back to election December 19, 2010, the same night as there was a massive demonstration in Minsk. There were 30,000 people in total. They were brutally defeated by a mixture of rebel police and Belarusian KGB. There were 600 people arrested that night alone. There were even more who were brutally beaten, and seven of the nine counter-candidates to Lukashenko ended up in prison, and several of them badly injured. Their supporters were brutally hunted by local KGB in the days that followed. Vladimir Neklyayev, a writer and one of the main opponents of Lukashenko, was knocked unconscious while trying to get to a demonstration. The security guard later removed him from the hospital, and his wife was locked inside a room while he was picked up for prison. There is now a report from Human Rights Watch from February this year that goes through chronologically and systematically what happened immediately after the election. That's reading recommended. There is reason to say that it would be more pure-haired — if not otherwise — by Lukashenko not to hold elections at all. What you saw was neither free nor fair – nor near it. It was only a game for the gallery, which also resulted in a significant degree of violence. When Lukashenko was proclaimed winner with nearly 80 pst. by votes and 90 pst. participation in elections, shows the zeal of the regime to legitimize itself. It also knew the opposition in advance. The opposition was clear that they made choices not because of the current choice, but because of the choices that might have to be made afterwards. The media had monopolised support for Lukashenko and, for the sake of order, only gave a fabulous advantage there early in Lukashenko's vote. The opposition only had the opportunity to put electoral observers at ca. 1 pst. of the constituencies. The OSCE said that half of the count was either ‘bad’ or ‘very bad’. Tony Lloyd, who led the OSCE delegation to Belarus, said that the "failed to give Belarus the new start it needed". In fact, this choice is not close to what one saw around 2008. I fully agree with the representative, Højbräten, that there was good reason to be positive after 2008. The Foreign Minister said the same thing. In view of the choices made in 2004 and 2006, 2008 was an embellishment that was well worth following up on the part of the international community. Now there is no doubt: this choice has clearly shown that Lukashenko is nothing but a brutal dictator. We must make clear demands on the regime. Me and the Right support those things the Højbråt takes up in the interpellation. I think it is a pity that Russia has not been clearer behind the elections, just as they were before the elections. That's when it came from the President and so forth. more positive signals that they wanted to follow up on the lack of democracy. Now the economic pressure will work. And with support for the opposition and civil society, combined with sanctions, I think we have a much clearer, clearer and better policy towards Belarus.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e324	I also want to start by thanking the interpellant for a very important interpellant. I was inspired to start where Peter N. Myhre was: Belarus has never been a democracy, so you can't expect this to go so fast. If we look at the countries around us, look at the concept of democracy and the concept of liberal democracy, with the fundamental human rights that we are talking about, then Freedom House did an analysis of this that showed that around 1900 there was no democracy that satisfied all the demands we make for liberal democracy, while in 2000 there were 120 of 192 countries in the world that satisfied those demands. We have to remember that very many countries around us, which we today regard as stable, good democracies, which we feel have been forever, have really not been forever. Spain was a dictatorship 33 years ago. Greece was 36 years ago. South Africa has been a democracy for no longer than 17 years. Indonesia has not been for more than 13 years. Now we see what's happening in North Africa. But around us, the fall of the Wall was the great grip on democracy. Belarus is the country that really hangs again. That's why it's so important for us to use everything we can from political media to get a neighboring country to meet the demands of democracy that we want it to do. What we are now talking about is Europe's last dictatorship, as many have said, and the outrages are great. Political engagement in Norway has been high. We have a youth party that has been over many times, which has worked a lot on this subject and worked a lot to support those who work for the democratic rights of Belarus. We have to bear in mind that if there is great poverty in rural areas, if we see that poverty also undermines democratic processes, it is now growing up a youth generation in Belarus that has access to both knowledge, the Internet and travel. There is a conscious youth group growing up, which is becoming very conscious that they are living in a dictatorship while the outside world surrounds them with democratic rights they want. It is this generation of young people that we should support. Then I have to say, as I also mentioned in the foreign policy statement, that I am very skeptical of what we are doing now. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that it is because we are negotiating a trade agreement with Russia, but we are internationally perceived as being more soft towards Belarus than the other country is, because the customs union that Russia has concluded with the EU is being used as a shellhouse or a remote explanation that today we are negotiating a trade agreement with Belarus. I notice that the EU here is much more restrictive than Norway is. I notice that the EU has imposed travel restrictions on many of them that we will have to negotiate with. I believe that we should follow the general principles that are also followed by other European countries, and press Belarus also on the trade side. Then I see no reason for us to negotiate with them. Sick about Russia operating with different foreign policies based on their neighbours, there is no reason for Norway to take over the Russian principle of having different foreign policies based on which neighbours we have. We, I believe, should not conclude a trade agreement which means that we should also have a trade agreement with Belarus. Norway should be in line with the EU in its position on Belarus.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e337	First, I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very topical topic. I've listened carefully in the past to learn from the representative Høybräten when we've discussed Belarus, precisely because of his commitment to democracy development there. For the past year and a half, I have been to the Nordic Council and through the Baltic Sea Cooperation, the BSPC, that is, the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference. It's been and is a very interesting work in both of these forums. Not least, I think that this cooperation can show good results when a person manages to put total resources behind the goals he or she sets. It is a fact that the Baltic Sea is struggling with a great deal of pollution, which is now taking major and important measures to deal with, pollution from both land-based industries and maritime transport, but it is also a fact that the Baltic States have been through a raging political, economic and democratic development in recent years, to which such an international forum can contribute to the greatest extent. Of course, all these important challenges — environment, democracy, political and economic challenges — are also present in Belarus. At the same time, we must recognise the importance of developments in Belarus for those countries bordering directly on the Baltic Sea, simply because countries such as Latvia, Lithuania and Poland are border neighbours to Belarus. One of the things we've spent a lot of time on in the BSPC is whether Belarus should be given observer status or not. I've always thought that to influence a development is the best starting point to be inside where there are opportunities to influence. Therefore, my attitude to the question of Belarus’s possible observer status has been open and partly positive. The positive elements for such an approach are that Belarus has partial observer status in the Baltic Sea Council. Then there is little logic – at least initially – that Belarus should not be given observer status in the parliamentary part of this cooperation, and I am pleased that this could become a theme in the future. Another element is that a positive development has been recorded in terms of democracy, will and ability to participate in processes in international forums from Belarus. So what seems completely incomprehensible to us in connection with the election just before New Year's. Reports from election observers and press information tell us about a development that we cannot accept as democratic. As I said, the BSPC has discussed Belarus's desire to become an observer in depth. Most countries have signalled great disappointment at the lack of democratic development in the country, and as far as I can assess the matter, it is unlikely that they will come to any final conclusion with the first. The leader of the BSPC, Christina Gestrin, has been invited to Belarus, as we have heard, and such a visit is pending. I know very well that if Belarus first gets this status as an observer, it is completely impossible to get this country out again, if you were to get in such a discussion. Because in such a case, it would never be a consensus. Then the big question is what's best to do to influence, if possible, the development for the benefit of people in Belarus. Should the international community isolate the country in order to signal dissatisfaction, or should the international community pursue a policy of isolation? That's where we have to find the right balance of measures to avoid isolation. I believe that we should signal a great deal of concern about the development of Belarus now in – not in order for the authorities to feel bad, but the authorities must see that those countries that constitute neighbours and actively participate in international forums do not tacitly accept obvious violations of general democratic principles. An important part of the signals we have to send is that people in the country should hear that we, the international community, support fundamental rights and democracy. With the answer the Foreign Minister has given to this interpellation both in terms of reactions to the authorities and in terms of supporting civil society, I think we are doing what is necessary. We're going to do it in Norway, and we're going to do it with others, for example. in the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e356	There is no one in the world that I admire more than people who risk life, work and income in the struggle for democracy. In Belarus, there are many examples of people who every day risk exactly what we in Norway take as a matter of course. I want to say first of all that I like Trine Skei Grande's posts, which have a very positive approach, and which puts the fight for democracy in a historical light. It's good to be reminded when we're dealing with countries like Belarus, with such a regime. I am also very grateful that the interpellation is being raised from the Højbråtsen side. And I am pleased with the long-standing commitment that both representatives of this Assembly, that is, the Storting, have had in different councils and bodies, and the representatives of the government, that is, our foreign minister and other foreign ministers before him, have had for many years. Even I've been to Belarus three times. I've been both in Minsk and in Mogilev, another big city, and I've traveled a lot around. I have been a course manager at Women's Kan courses on behalf of Norwegian People's Aid. We have a cooperation between the Women's Network of the Labour Party and Norwegian People's Aid in such projects in different parts of the world. Belarus is the country in which I have been a course manager. I just have to admit that it has made a big impression. You meet women who risk their jobs every day. They go on one-year contracts with many of them, highly educated lawyers – Belarus actually has a very high educated population. But because of their democratic commitment, they are at risk of losing their job and income. You meet people who live in poverty, with major social problems, with high unemployment — things that come with living in a dictatorship. We've seen in the last few days the news that Gaddafi's private flights have been seen twice in Belarus. It also shows how important it is to work on a broad basis in international forums, not least by establishing the arms embargo that was made in relation to sanctions in Libya. And it shows how dictatorships actually relate in the world, and how dictators in different parts of the world cooperate, where this is part of a black economy – at all an untransparent picture. I want to spend a little bit of time on two things. One is that I believe Norway should continue to contribute — we have contributed — to the construction of its society from below by Belarus. Support for civil society — organisations, human rights defenders and journalists. But I also think there is an important discussion about how we can strengthen people-to-people cooperation – between different organisations, perhaps private individuals in Norway, and the Belarusian population. The high bank mentioned the example of the Nord-Trundellag County. That is a good example. I believe that such arenas can be used, with direct contact between people across borders – i.e. important support bars and important cross-border cooperation. Then I really want to say something about Russia's role. Belarus became an independent country in 1991, and Lukashenko took over in 1994. In 1991 Belarus was one of the richest of the old Soviet states. Today is 80 pst. by the enterprises and businesses of Belarus state-owned, and they are left in the old communist economy. It's not like there's necessarily the same warm relationship between Russia and Belarus today as it was a few years ago. I believe that Russia, along with the other neighbouring countries in the region, has a type of key role, which I think we in Norway should do what we can to build up below. We can do a lot in Norway — and we do a lot — but, above all, Belarus needs to change from within. We must contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e372	Let me first thank the co-representatives who have taken part in this debate with good and insightful contributions, who very clearly support the main message in terms of reactions. The Norwegian authorities need to put further pressure on Belarus so that all political prisoners are released, that all prisoners have access to legal and medical assistance, that legal certainty is ensured for those in trial, that the attacks and persecution of human rights activists, lawyers, journalists, writers, students and opposition politicians cease, that torture and abuse in prisons cease immediately, and that those responsible are held accountable. This is the main requirement of the human rights movement and should be the main requirement of Norway. Then I am pleased with the foreign minister's approach to the issue of participation in Baltic Sea cooperation. I believe that an intelligent approach will be that Norway is at the forefront of bringing other countries together to respond, and that can be done without recourse to isolation. It is fully possible to freeze a status for a period, as a reaction to what has now happened, and is still in progress. I want to see Norway in such a driving role and not in a role where we come after the others once they have adopted their reactions. It is also important, as the Foreign Minister stressed, that what is happening on the trade side cannot and should not be used as a pretext to say that Norway has a different and milder attitude to this regime than our European colleagues. That's not the case. Following this trend in recent months has been painful. Many of the people who have been arrested, who have already been convicted, or who are even more at risk of imprisonment than those who have been convicted, are my friends. There are relationships built over time, both to the overall opposition and some opposition leaders, and especially to the leaders of the Christian Democratic Party, who are under intense persecution. It means that I have felt as a special responsibility to raise this matter. I am very happy to have the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the government and such a broad bundle of big business representatives behind what has been my main business and main message in the hall today, and I would like to thank everyone for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e385	I will join the representative Højbrätt's last comment. There is broad support for the line we are leading, and it must be powerful and expressed at the levels in which we are present, either as parliamentarians or as governments or otherwise. A few comments on the speeches: I think it's an important point, as the representative Gustavsen was at the end, that here, as in other countries, it's the whites themselves who have to bring about the changes. That with it they risk both life and limbs and freedom makes it totally forced for countries around to react and be present and be constantly responsive to the needs and very clear in the speech compared to the regime that is there. I think – that’s one of the same thing as in many other similar countries with authoritarian boards – that the outside world can contribute and help to a good deal on the road, but the change power must come from within. It is clear that the challenge for Belarus is also a lack of civil society and structures from a lack of democracy for so many years. We have to take that with us. As far as trade is concerned, there is a little paradoxical situation, because, as I said, we have started negotiations with Russia. It is our goal to have it implemented, it is necessary and important for Norway, and we are doing it together with our EFTA partners. Then Russia has concluded this customs union, and they talk a little bit out of both mouths when they deal with the Russians. They're like inside that customs union, and then they operate a little bit on the outside of it. And nothing in relation to the agreements that the customs union will conclude will come into force before the three countries become members of the WTO. According to what we read and understand, it can happen from Russia already in the current year, or maybe next year, but for Belarus and Kazakhstan there is reason to believe that it is much longer, especially for Belarus – Kazakhstan may be in some sort of middle category. We do not intend to negotiate actively with Belarus – we do not need it, and we do not want to send those signals. When it comes to meeting representatives of Belarus, I can say to the representative Skei Grande that I assume that the same people on the travel ban list we have adopted, as the EU has adopted – here we have a unified European line. We take with us the recordings that have been made in this debate. Among other things, we will engage in an active exploration of the vision of the Baltic Sea States in terms of the meetings of the Baltic Sea Council, but also of the Northern Dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e396	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e410	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e419	The system of care in the public interest is in place to ensure that people receive income during periods of loss of income when parents have to take responsibility for the training and rehabilitation of sick children. Recently, there have been many signals that Nav Administration has reinterpreted the scheme, despite the fact that there has been no change in politics. Against this background, the proposers believe that the new practice of Nav Management is in violation of what has been the intention. They ask for clarification of the rights and ask the government to ensure that the interpretation is followed until 2003. The proposal was promoted by an overall opposition and maintained as a proposal for a decision today. State Council Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm says in a letter of 1 February: ‘The government appointed on 25 June 2010 a public body to assess benefits for caregivers replacing municipal services. [[...]] The committee shall deliver its opinion by 1 June 2011. The Government will then consider any need for changes to current legislation.’» It's a little bit hard to understand what's in this. Is it so that the government approves the Nav Administration's new practice? A general review of benefits is at least not intended by the Progress Party as a weakening of the different schemes, rather on the contrary. The Progress Party has believed that a review of the different arrangements is essentially about seeing countless ugly things mentioned in the media, and especially about care pay. Now that we're experiencing great variations and new practices around care money, should be a simple matter to clean up, given that a change is not political. The fact that the majority today do not want this clarification and clearing up is difficult to perceive as different from the fact that there is a political wish for a tightening up, and it regrets the Progress Party. Otherwise, it would be natural for government parties to propose, as a minimum today, to continue practice from 2003 until the government’s review of general care grants was completed. All parties have repeatedly stressed that they do not want a sorting society. It is also important that we support the welfare systems that provide families with the opportunity to achieve the best possible and natural life. Today's arrangements are an eternal struggle of power between families and the public and, unfortunately, have made it harder and harder for those who need a little extra follow-up and help in recent years. An example of this was sent to me from a mother with a premature child with complex illness. The mother had two statements, one from primary health care and one from specialist health services. Both concluded that the disease and damage were not permanent. This overestimated Nav and simply concluded that both the primary health service and the specialist health service were probably wrong. Care allowance was therefore refused. In this context, I sent questions to the Council of State, Bjurstrøm, asking if Nav could oversee several instances in such a way. This was not answered by the Council of State. That the question was not answered, I understand, because it is a little difficult to give a good answer to it. So today we had an opportunity to clean up these things, but the majority don't want to. The majority will wait, and in the meantime there are many children with sickness and injury who do not get the care and training they so badly need. I take up the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e446	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e449	An overall committee considers it necessary to clarify and clarify the legislation on the care allowance scheme. We, who make up the majority, believe that it is best to do so in the context of and through the follow-up to the investigation by the public body set up to review public benefits to caregivers. The investigation is so close that we believe this to be the most correct, also in order to obtain the most comprehensive assessment of the conditions underlying the proposal for a representative we are now considering. For which the Committee unanimously underlines: ‘It is very important that society supports those who need additional assistance, support, assistance and services and that this is provided under fair conditions and in accordance with a law that appears understandable and reasonable.’;» [[...]] [[...]] The enforcement of the rules must also be as uniform as possible across the country. The question of whether the condition is permanent or not is central to the matter that is now being dealt with. In my opinion, there is a manifestly unfortunate situation when health professionals and Nav have different perceptions of whether the condition is permanent or not. As other members of the Committee, I find it difficult to understand that it is not the health assessment that will weigh more heavily here. The background to the focus on whether or not the damage or condition is permanent is that long-term conditions mean that the service needs will then be met through adapted municipal services – seagoingly in close cooperation with parents, but so that parents can primarily participate in working life. Aid from popular welfare and care pay are also part of this picture. I look forward to the investigation from the public authority. I feel sure that the government will ensure a good follow-up to what is being presented, and that the Stortinget will then be able to get a complete and good treatment of these important arrangements, for the benefit of children and parents and other relatives who stand up for their loved ones. I would also like to stress the importance of facilitating the implementation of intensive treatment and rehabilitation in cases where it promotes better health and quality of life. We need to have the best possible interaction between public and private care in order to master the great needs of care we face and to meet each other in a good way. If today's legislation does not provide enough for that, I feel sure that the government will do something about it. But first we'll see the survey from the sample that's just been reduced, so that we can go into it thoroughly. The aim of this work and the selection that has been reduced is, of course, to make it easier for people to stand up for their neighbors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e467	As the rapporteur has well explained, this proposal concerns the establishment of the system of care allowance in the social security system to ensure income during periods of loss of income when parents have to take responsibility for the training, rehabilitation and rehabilitation of sick children. In 2003, following a political decision, it was decided that those in need of intensive training and rehabilitation should be offered this in the specialist health service with possible support under §5-22 of the Swedish Social Security Act. Parents who are currently entitled to care allowance to participate and facilitate intensive training and rehabilitation have now been informed that the right to care ceases because the Nav Administration has reinterpreted the care scheme. This reinterpretation takes place without any new political treatment. I have been working especially on these matters since 1998, and there is no doubt about what Stortinget has intended to be the intention of supporting and assisting these children and parents – and that Nav's new practice violates this intention and a clear wish from Stortinget – also the red-green parties that have been involved in this. But now it looks like the support from them ceases. On the right, the new interpretation and practice particularly affects the families who have based on, and adapted to, these benefits. A consequence of the conversion will mean that the established training programme must cease because parents must be in full employment to support the family. This will lead to a lower level of provision for children and, in many cases, the need for more costly provision in municipalities. Today it costs with the care allowance scheme and what was established around the children and the families, approx. One million. kr per child per year. If the municipality was to take over this care on its own because the parents can't do it on their own, we're up to $3 million expenses. kr per child per year. This shows that these families save society for millions of dollars every year. Predictability in the award of public benefits is very important, a predictability that is incompatible with the change of practice currently taking place. In a letter to the Stortinget, the Council of State stated: ‘I understand that this can be seen as difficult for those families who have opted out of previous decisions on the granting of care allowances, even if they did not qualify for the benefit.’ This provokes me enormously. The practice that has been established in allocating allowance to these families has been, as I was told in the past, a clear political wish, and the Council of State appears, in fact, to be very uninformed about what the Storting has decided. And I think it's quite eye-catching that she says "did not have a claim." The emphasis of the Council of State on the principle of duration in the assessment of whether these families should be entitled to care allowance, is a change of current practice and is in conflict, I would say, with the wishes of the Storting. This matter seems to me to be an example of the fact that the Workers' Party is more concerned with defending the system and the paragraphs than with standing up for the individuals and what is best for them. It's nothing new, so really I shouldn't be surprised. But in this case, I think it's so heartbreaking. These are the most vulnerable children, the most distressed families, and there will be great consequences. And it's about approx. 50–60 children, and for parents as night and day, year after year, make an outstanding effort for their children. The consequence is that now, as a mother said, they simply have to give up their vital projects in order to help their seriously disabled children to a participating, worthy and, not least, learning life. But we do not pursue policies to defend systems, but to facilitate systems, so that people can live good and value lives. Now it's only those families that have good finances, where parents have the possibility that one can be at home, who will have the opportunity to continue training with the children, and that's right-wing. So this happens despite the fact that there has been a broad political consensus on this in the past. Many of these children will be worse by losing their planned training offer, which in turn could trigger higher costs of disease. And what these children will lose personally is not measurable in money. The fact that the government parties only reject the case upsets me. At least they could contribute to the continuation of established practice to the public body to assess the performance of caregivers to replace municipal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e500	I refer you to what is in the matter, and to the point made by the rapporteur, and also to the reasons given by the majority of the committee for not adopting the proposal as it stands on the table today. However, when I take the floor, it is in order to underline what an overall committee says in its position, namely that it is important that: ‘family with disabled children experience a comprehensive assistance offer, where it cooperates publicly for the purpose of finding the best solution, not only for the child but also for the family as a whole’. In addition, the Committee states that: ‘difficult to understand that changes in practice can be made internally in Nav, which have serious consequences for users’ rights and living conditions, without a political basis for decisions demonstrating that change in practice has been desired’. I think I can say with great certainty that when the majority believes that the proposal that is on the table should not be adopted now, but awaits the investigation that comes about benefits to relatives who provide care that replaces municipal services, it is not in that it is accepted for some stricter interpretation of the law than what has been practiced in the last ten years. I perceive that someone who today receives care allowance is worried about that. Among other things, I have read the recordings of the Brainbarna Norway Association. But they do not have to fear this, because until the Storting has got a new case on this, the practice that has been followed needs to be continued. In many cases, discretion has to be exercised in individual cases. Then there is reason to remember that these are children and families who need community support and help. In this case, a liberal practice should be applied in case of doubt, and in case of doubt, it should benefit those in need. Because it is very important that it does not develop a practice here in the country where only the resource-intensive families have a good economy, who have the opportunity to help their own seriously disabled children for a worthwhile life. This must apply to all, and precisely this political dimension must be taken into account in the practice of policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e521	There is no need to wait to resolve this matter to the public authority that looks at the relatives who do the job for the municipality, is done with their work. This can be solved right here and now. This is not the municipality's table, this is specialist health services that parents do. Care money is not something the municipalities pay, care money is a government scheme, and I expect the Minister of Labour to clean up immediately. Some parents have chosen to follow intensive training for their children and spend a lot of time and effort on this. Now they have to fight for their rights. I bend in the dust for these parents, who don't give up. Already in 2003, a political decision was taken on this subject, with the rights that accompanied it, as well as the benefits. Without new political leadership in the matter, many parents – and politicians – have reacted to Nav’s sudden departure from this practice. How can they be allowed to do this, administratively and on their own, without political involvement? We suggest that the government ensure that Nav Management follows the 2003 interpretation, § 9-10, that care can be given to parents in connection with intensive treatment and rehabilitation of their child. Many parents with disabled children face the biggest challenge against the system. Rejection and lack of understanding remove the focus from being Mom and Dad. The consequences of Nav's practice are that many families now have to give up their vital projects in training their children for an independent and independent life. Only those with good finances can use the opportunity to continue training their children. The brain children Norway have worked on this matter for a long time, and they believe that the framework conditions for children with disabilities are still weakened by government policies. They point out that the Ministry of Labour does not take responsibility for managing very important welfare areas for families with disabled children. They believe this is about health policy issues and not employment policy. For a number of years, the Christian People's Party has been asking for follow-up to the strategy plan for families with disabled children from 2005. Among other things, it was proposed in the 2007 call for the government parties to revise this strategy plan. We're still waiting for that. The government has taken a few initiatives in this area over the six years it has held. We have also called on the Christian People's Party to strengthen the care pay system because the Health Authority has revealed great geographical differences in the practice of this scheme. Of course, it is positive that the government has finally agreed to a review of the welfare pay system and has set up a public body. The term of office of the sample is now referred to as ‘to provide public benefits to dependants providing care replacing municipal services’. But the intensive training we're talking about today is going on in the specialist health service and in the parents. These are not services that replace municipal services, i.e. care and care. Furthermore, care allowance is paid by the State. I look forward to the statements of the Council of State here today, and I expect the Council of State to take care of them. It is pointless to have Nav decide to cut an established state scheme to investigate it together with other municipal schemes. I perceived the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen as clearly saying that this arrangement would continue until another arrangement, if any, was in place. Then I'm assuming that the Council of State may agree to this. So now I really hope that they find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e544	The proposers wish to clarify the right to care for families wishing to practise by foreign methods. The government has been asked to ensure that the Labour and Welfare Act follows the 2003 interpretation in relation to the Social Security Act §9-10, and to grant care to parents in these cases. Let me first make it clear that care is still provided under the Swedish Social Security Act § 9-10 when the child is admitted to a health institution. This applies to stays at the Doman Institute and other training centres abroad, where support is provided from the public interest to travel and residence. Questions about whether care can be given to parents who carry out intensive training and treatment at home must be considered in relation to the provision of the Law on Social Security § 9-11, where a condition is that the child “has a life-threatening or other very serious illness or injury” that is not permanent. When the condition is long-term, the condition is that the service needs can be met by adapted municipal services in cooperation with parents, so that parents can participate in the professional life. The Health and Care Committee refers to questions raised about the seemingly variable practice of the care scheme and points to a possible need for clarification related to the interpretation of the severity requirement and the assessment of the persistence of the disease. The Committee wonders whether the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare refuse to pay care on the grounds that the disease or injury is permanent, while the primary and specialist health services have determined that the damage is not permanent. The Chamber of Labour and Welfare has been given decision-making authority on a case-by-case basis. The assessment by the medical expert is the basis for the decision, but the specific assessment of the severity and duration of the disease shall be carried out. It is not sufficient that an improvement to the condition may or may not have occurred. If the child continues to have extensive care and care needs, the disease or injury is considered to be permanent. Decisions in cases where parents carry out intensive home training and treatment may therefore have different outcomes. I do not want those parents who have received support for intensive training by foreign methods to be treated in a special way compared to others, by allowing care in all such cases. I can point out that in the light of the remarks made by the Social Committee at the beginning of the Budget. S. No 11 for 2003–2004 in the Order Document 2005 for regional health establishments, among others. states that regional health establishments are to assess, in cooperation with the municipality, financial and practical support for families with disabled children in order to enable the choice of training methods, including the Doman method. Many families receive financial support from regional health businesses for home training. Most brain-damaged children receive treatment within the Norwegian treatment system and habilitation services in the specialist health services and services provided by the municipality. In most cases, parents will not be entitled to care because the disease is considered to be permanent, unless the children have to go to hospital for a period of time. Current benefits for parents who want to be at home with their children are aid from the social security system and care allowance provided by the municipality. The Government is committed to ensuring a good interaction between public and private care and has appointed a public body to assess the benefits of dependants providing care to replace municipal services. The selection shall include, inter alia: assess the challenges facing the welfare pay system. The committee is well-informed about its work, but has seen the need for a little more time than originally foreseen and has therefore asked for, and received, a deadline. I am pleased that the majority of the committee is in favour of awaiting the proposal of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e563	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e566	In my post, I had an example with a mother who had one statement from the primary health service and one from the specialist health service, who both concluded that injury and disease are not permanent, and Nav points out that they disagree. They think this is permanent. Then is the question to the Council of State: what is the purpose of obtaining a statement from those who actually know the child, if Nav can make his own assessments even when those behind the justification do not have a medical background?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e574	It follows from the system that it is Nav who has to make the final decision in the case. It is Nav who is responsible for the decisions taken. Nav will of course pay great attention to what comes from experts who have been picked up by their parents, but Nav has to make his own assessment. If it is likely that this type of diagnosis is permanent, Nav will take this into account. They will of course look at what comes from the experts, but Nav makes his own assessments, and they also make their own medical assessments where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e579	Government parties reject the opposition proposal on the basis of a letter from the Council of State. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State why she cannot wait with changes and let established policies and practices continue, at least until after the sample has said its own. And can the Council of State guarantee that none of those who come under the scheme today fall outside a new scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e584	I stress that this matter is as if it were an understanding of paragraphs 9-11 of the People's Security Act and the requirements for «permanent illness». In the past, there has been a practice in Nav that has proved to be false and contrary to the requirements of the law. When this system was transferred to the Nav Administration, which the representative is probably aware of, that error was corrected. Transitional arrangements were established for the families concerned, and as far as possible, including through contact with municipalities, efforts have been made to facilitate the proper functioning of the families. But the practice is therefore in line with Ot.prp. No 24 for 1997–1998, which was subsequently confirmed in Ot.prp. No 21 for 2005-2006 and at the latest in Prop. 64 L for 2009-2010. So this is now an understanding in line with the current right. The policy has been changed, and I can't now guarantee that everyone who has received a care allowance in the past will continue to get it with the new scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e591	This is quite incomprehensible, at least to me. It has previously been established in a complaint case at the People's Security Office in Aust-Agder that the care allowance under the People's Security Act § 9-10 can be granted in connection with intensive treatment and rehabilitation. This was in 2003. Then I hear what the council says. If it were to be so that Nav made a mistake, at least it was not wrong that the government of Bondevik and the majority of the population in 2003 wanted care money to be given. It has never been wrong. Then my question to the Council of State: if Nav has made a mistake, why in the world are the families that have been given care? Why aren't they going to keep them until you're done with this work that the government is doing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e600	It's like you have rules on how a law paragraph is to understand. And then this is a bad thing. It's always a bad thing when the system is not set up so that the rules give you the right to a special performance. The rules are now being practised in line with the provisions of §9-11 – §9-10 we do not discuss, because there is still a benefit when you are in an institution – and if the disease is not permanent, you do not have the right to this benefit. It must not be presented as if you have no right to anything. There are very many other types of public benefits, and it is in principle the public that has the total responsibility for the good of these children. At the end of the period in which these parents had been granted care allowance, transitional arrangements have been made for them to go as well as possible. But it's not like these kids are standing on the bar, and it's not like a sample has decided that everyone is going to get their allowance now. Now they're going to see this together with the care pay to make the best possible order.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e607	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e612	In the opinion – at least initially – the Committee is composed of several comments. In my speech, I underlined the importance of facilitating intensive treatment and rehabilitation. I also said something about this with the utmost interaction between public and private care. Since we have a sample that is now working and will look at this in an overall context, I think the most useful thing would be if the opposition here agrees that the proposal is sent without any processing. If the opposition does not want such a solution here today, I would like, on behalf of us, red-green, to change the setting to attach the proposal for a decision to the protocol. Especially because we have a sample that works and we're going to look at the whole thing, I think it's a little unlucky that we're doing a vote and the proposal here is being voted down because of the situation we're in, that we just have a sample that's working on this. Then I think it is better that the sample on a free basis get jobs and provide a good basis for a good treatment here in Stortinget later, if not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e619	Did the President understand correctly that the representative, Mr Hagebakken, on behalf of those behind the vote, wants to change the vote on the amendment to the text of the motion for a resolution to be annexed to the Minutes? Was it considered to be a concrete proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e622	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e627	So let's write it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e630	There is a need to clarify what the government really believes in this matter, if it is to be at all relevant to submit this proposal. For what has now been said from the government parties, cracks in two completely different directions. The Council of State defends the system and says that the current practice is the right one, while the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen says that the previous practice, which we – the opposition – believe is right, should continue until the new system is put in place. Can the Council of State reverse its intervention and confirm the understanding expressed by the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen, namely that the practice in question following an assessment of a complaint case in Aust-Agder in 2003 – after political intervention by the government – will continue to apply? In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘I am aware that, following a review of cases where a renewal period of care has been required, it has been found that, in several cases following the assessment by NAV Management, a care allowance has been granted in the event of an error: [[...]] If the Council of State can confirm that she will intervene in this matter and ensure that those who have lost the care after this review can get the care money back, until one has concluded after the work of this sample, then the opposition may assist in sending over these proposals. If the Council of State cannot confirm it, there is a real disagreement in this Chamber, and then I would recommend the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen to vote in favour of the opposition's proposal, because that's the only way he can get through for what he said from the pulpit. In reality, it means that when Geir-Ketil Hansen has said what he has said, it is a majority of the Stortinget who believe it as the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left believe in this matter – and not what the Workers' Party has said. When I hear the statement to the State Council, Bjurstrøm, I suspect that the guide to this party in this matter is what Martin Kolberg of the Workers' Party stood at the National Assembly of the Workers' Party and said: the system, the system, the system, the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e646	The President must note that the quotation from Mr Kolberg's speech at the National Labour Party meeting was probably an unpresidual one. Quotes should be precise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e649	I want to point out the simple fact that parents want to take care of their children themselves – of course. Then we have to make sure that they can do it. It is largely the parents who are now responding to what has happened and the Council of State responds with legal interpretations. It's a reality that these parents want this system. Like the representative Bent Höie, of course, we in the Christian People's Party are more than willing to agree to a transmission of this proposal to the government, if the Council of State can assure us today that the scheme will be continued until the selection comes to its end and until a new political decision has been taken on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e659	This is a difficult matter, because it concerns people who are in a difficult situation, and I have the greatest respect for it. But there's one case complex. I may be accused of being legal, but I am the Council of State and responsible for a law that – on several occasions since 2002 – has been made clear by Stortinget that in order to receive care when you care for children, the child must suffer for a long time. It is assessed in concrete terms, and then it is assessed that this disease image that I am talking about here is not permanent, and then the conditions for this are not met. Then we have other good arrangements – I don't need to spend time on that, because I want to spend the time on what's important to me now – in terms of care pay, and we have the services of the municipality. And parents have to trust -- I'm very concerned about -- that the public is standing up for them, because many parents want to look after their children. That's what we're concerned about, and that's why we've put down this sample to look at the relationship between the public and the private in caring for sick children. But not all parents want and can care for their child in a good way. They probably want it, but they see that they might not be able to do it in a good enough way. So public authorities must have the overall responsibility and with their parents take care to ensure that children who are ill are well cared for. That's why we have to look at the whole thing of this, and that's some of what we're going to do. That is why I am not now prepared to give any guarantee that one type of diagnosis – for that is what we are talking about – will be withdrawn from the entire assessment, and then we will say that in this type of diagnosis we should actually take the main focus of public responsibility and say that it is the responsibility of the parents. I think that's wrong, and I think what we're going to do now is make an overall assessment, where we look at how parents and the public can work together. And then we're going to look at the care pay, because it's not like these parents get no money. However, care allowance has a higher level of social benefits than care pay, and we need to look at how we can ensure a more comprehensive and good general funding for the parents who want, can and will be at home and care for and care for their children. I believe that this matter is difficult, but at the same time I believe that it is now actually made a little simpler than it really is. It is produced outside its full and entire context. It may be called system defense, but it is actually also my duty to deal with the laws and regulations that Storting has given me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e671	First, I want to correct the quote error. I didn't think Kolberg had said that, but that someone would think he had said it. I am aware that he said something quite different. The point is that this was a good thing in 2003. Then a political decision was taken to resolve the problem by ensuring that training according to these methods was approved by the specialist health service. Training approved by the specialist health service is always something that should lead to an improvement in the situation, i.e. continuous inequality in relation to the level of those who are being trained. It solved the need for parents’ economic situation, thus ensuring care-related practices. This was a legal interpretation of the law in a case in East Agder, and a political use of that opportunity to solve a need. There is nothing to prevent today's Council of State from doing exactly the same thing and saying that the new interpretation of the law on which the administration has now applied is suspended until the Storting has had an overall review and a new system has been established. The council doesn't have to say anything more than those words from this pulpit, and then these parents' situation is fine. It costs society a few dollars. There are a few parents that are talking about, but it has enormous significance for the parents that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e680	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2859]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e696	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e705	The Stortinget will now consider proposals from representatives Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Morten Stordalen and Kari Kjønaas Kjos to remove the age limit for licensing to doctors. Today it is necessary to apply for a new licence after the age of 75. I assume that the proposers will give details of the proposal. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that there is a need for more doctors, and that older people who want to work beyond 75 years represent a valuable resource for our health care. However, the majority of the Committee has concluded that it would not be right to change the age limit, as demonstrated by the Health Care Professional Act. The size has dealt with similar proposals in the past and has rejected them. In 2004, a division was made into the provisions on licensing for doctors over 75 years of age. The amendments have helped to make the regulation clearer and simplified in order to ensure the possibility for applicants to obtain a licence after the age of 75, while at the same time helping to ensure patient safety by not granting a licence with a right of prescription other than in cases where this is considered appropriate to the extent of the activity. So this with patient safety is an important aspect of this case, and an important reason for not wanting to go into the proposal as promoted. Norway is the only country with such an age limit. That's not right. I refer to attached letters from the Council of State, which show that both Denmark, the United States and the United Kingdom have different forms of old-age certification. In Denmark, the age limit is also 75 years. The Committee's position also refers to the fact that, following amendments made in 2004, very few complaints from doctors who have been licensed have been dealt with. In 2010, only six complaints on limitation of the right to prescribe were dealt with. In the case of a non-prescription licence, there is only one to two rejections per year. Finally, I would like to stress what I started by saying, and what the committee says in its comment: it is very positive that there are doctors who want to work further after 75 years. It is stipulated, by this law, that they may be granted an extension of the licence. It also shows that society appreciates this effort. The majority of the Committee also points to an increase in working age and, in view of this, the Committee considers that there is reason to consider whether the age limit can be raised. It is also assumed that the department does so on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e720	The majority today has a proposal from the Progress Party to remove the age limit for licences to doctors. It is important that this theme be discussed, in particular for two reasons: Firstly, it gives us an opportunity from the Workers' Party to send an important signal: we greatly appreciate the fact that many doctors want to continue their medicine according to their normal retirement age, and we know that many patients especially appreciate the conversation and treatment of doctors with a lot of professional knowledge and experience. Secondly, the theme provides an opportunity to stop and assess the conditions associated with increasing life expectancy and flexible retirement age, in conjunction with the requirements of professionalism and updating for a profession that meets many people in vulnerable situations of life. Norway has for many years had a legal provision on the withdrawal of authorization and the licensing of medical activities at the age of 75. This provision is provided for in the Health Care Professional Act and it is possible to apply for a temporary extension after 75 years. In 2004, the regulation was amended, inter alia: with the aim of simplifying the applicant’s ability to obtain a licence after the age of 75. Our way of doing this can seem somewhat more stringent than what other countries practice. At the same time, it is right to emphasise that Denmark introduced restrictions on the practice of medicine in 2007 after 75 years of age. At the same time, there are actually examples of much more stringent schemes than we have in Norway. In the United Kingdom, a medical recertification scheme – which was also in the hands of the case rapporteur – has to be practised and in the United States doctors have to review it every two or three years throughout their careers. Several other countries practice follow-up schemes to ensure quality requirements for doctors and other health professionals. The working party believes that it is both important and necessary for many doctors to continue their medicine after their normal retirement age. We've done a lot of work in healthcare, and we need experienced, knowledge-rich doctors, for the benefit of patients, and not least as counselors and role models for young doctors. Therefore, the possibility of practice is already set above the age at which almost everyone else takes retirement. Revalidation shall be easy to apply for and revalidation may be applied for several times. Experience shows that almost all applications are accepted. The Nordics are spokesmen, at least in general, and we have a rapidly increasing life expectancy. What was a reasonable retirement age of 10, 20 and 30 years ago, is almost too late to count today, to say it a little tense. That is why we have also reformed the pension system, including: with an adjustment in the standard of living. These matters must also be taken into account in this case. I would therefore like to point out that the government parties have joined with the Right and Christian People's Party on a note that clearly states that it is relevant to consider raising the age limit somewhat, and we assume that the ministry is assessing this on an ongoing basis. This I would say is a strong signal. Furthermore, there is a broad consensus in today’s big deal that there should be an age limit. Only the Advance Party will take it completely away. In conclusion, I have been impressed by the fact that older doctors at the hearing have expressed their doubts about the community's genuine desire and appreciation for their commitment and social contribution. I really hope that through this article I have found that the clear opposite is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e741	In 1980, a provision was introduced for the withdrawal of authorization as a doctor at 75 years of age, with the possibility of continuing to grant a limited licence upon application. So for 31 years, we've had a strange system that makes doctors take away their right to act as doctors because they've had their birthday. No other country has a similar system. When the rule was introduced, it was somewhat justified, but it may seem that the majority of the population was of the opinion that something mental happened to a person because he was 75 years old. It was probably also a bureaucratic and economic aspect – wanted to have a safe control of the doctors, implemented by economists and lawyers. Doctors are put through this in a special position among academics. Neither economists, lawyers, pastors or veterinarians lose the right to pursue a profession at a particular age. This cannot be classified as other than a purely age discrimination against doctors. I thought we got further in 2011. The vindication was closed on the grounds that society cannot or cannot deprive a large group of their human dignity because a few of them will be a risk to society. The Progress Party today is alone in wanting to eliminate this age discrimination, and I am afraid that the majority's rejection of our proposal is an expression of an attitude towards older people that we unfortunately see in many contexts in our society today. The limitation imposed by the legislation to the practice of the medical profession after age 75 feels both offensive and unreasonable for a significant number of doctors who have had a flawless professional career and who are still able to help their patients. Medical practitioners of all ages must continue to be able to check in the field of soundness and fitness and be entitled to take the licence from those who practice unwarranted practices. Everyone agrees that doctors over and under 75 years of age must always be up-to-date on the service to be performed, but that does not mean that a person must have a certain size of employment, a doctor’s office, etc. to be up-to-date in different disciplines. I dare then ask the Minister of Health: What about those doctors who do not normally work in patient-oriented work – researchers, bigots politicians, state secretaries and others – who only have a guest role as doctors or temporary doctors for a short summer week? Are these controlled, and are they professionally updated at all times? A similar proposal from the Progress Party was discussed by the European Parliament in 2002. At that time, the parties of government were the Right and Christian People's Party to keep the special age limit. In the meantime, the Storting has dealt with the pension agreement, where the intention is that people should be able to stand longer in work. The two mentioned batches will today be in favour of adjusting this special age limit, which has remained unchanged for more than 30 years. I am more amazed at the Workers' Party and the Centre, which have changed their position since 2002. Both parties stated in 2002 that doctors over 75 years of age were a resource Norway needed and could exploit much more. Today they will not go in to remove the special age limit. They don't want to go into a lifestyle adjustment of it either. But worst of all, they will not be able to determine the basis for maintaining such an age limit. They do not want professional and research-based knowledge related to the question. Power raw, knowledge subordinate. The government does what it wants. It's scary. In a few years, 2,400 doctors will fall for this age limit. Studies conducted by the Medical Association show that 600 to 700 of these could expect to continue in the profession for a few more years. We're out of game today. We import doctors for a short or longer time from abroad. The interaction reform will lead to further needs for medical services. Can we afford to throw away this resource that society — yes, the community — has, after all, invested in building up? We know that a Norwegian doctor of 84 years has been offered to practise in Portugal because the Norwegian licence is valid there from before the age of 75, and that this can be done safely within the EEA rules on the common labour market. When Boris Yeltsin was going to have his heart operation, an 88-year-old heart specialist was taken from the United States to be the adviser for the Russian team. Norway has acceded to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Elderly, which states that older people should have the opportunity to work. The Elder Convention states that older people should be treated individually, but in Norway we continue collective treatment of older doctors, because it determines the compact majority. In Norway, the majority will still have it so that a doctor can perform an extensive heart operation one day, but the next day, on his 75th birthday, he cannot even print prescriptions of antibiotics to a neighbor with urinary tract infection or order the X-ray to his wife if she falls and hits the glacier. This undue age discrimination will be brought to an end by the Progress Party, and we are therefore addressing the proposal we are making in this matter. If the proposal against all common sense were to be downgraded, we would subsidly support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e764	The President then perceives that the representative Jon Jäger Gåssvatn has raised two proposals, the proposals No. 1 and No 3 to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e767	I refer you to the rapporteur's review of the matter, so I will not go into it in detail. The right considers that the provisions restricting the right of doctors to pursue a profession after 75 years are, in principle, of concern and also pose some practical challenges and bureaucratic complications. We believe that changes were made, among others. when reviewing the 2004 Regulation, to some extent limit the problems relating to the rights of the doctors concerned by facilitating the granting of authorisation and licences. I would also like to stress the need to ensure optimal use of medical competence, medical professional experience and working skills in the health sector. In particular, we support the intention of the proposers to have better access to the medical competence of doctors, both at home and in the care services. Health care rules should, as in other parts of professional life and in the public sector, be better able to stimulate the use of the competences and working capacity of older people and better facilitate a longer professional career for those who have the opportunity to do so and who wish to do so. Life expectancy has also increased, and the health of the elderly has improved considerably since the 75-year limit was set. We find it unnatural that there should be an automatic lapse of authorization and that the age limit has not been increased. Although the intention at the age limit should be respected, we believe that the limit of automatic licensing and authorisation lapses should be increased to 80 years, as the Medical Association called for in the hearing of the Committee on 13 January 2011. In fact, we believe that there is no scientific evidence to claim that the age limit should be maintained at 75 years. We believe that the government should clarify the basis for maintaining a special age limit for the medical profession. We are a bit critical of the department's reluctance to carry out a more thorough evaluation of the effect of the regulation, as foreseen by the introduction of the regulation by the medical law as early as 1980. Then I finally take up the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e787	Then the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e790	In this case, government parties support the view of the proposers that it is important to facilitate the continuation of older workers in work for as long as possible, both because society needs all the work capacity, but also because work – being useful – is also good for the individual. We're lucky to live in a country where we live ever more, and we're a population with ever fresher ages. In this sense, it is natural to look at the age limits that are, and have been, not only in the profession of medicine, but also in other professions. Higher life expectancy is an argument to consider increasing the age limit of 75 for lapses of authorisation and licensing as a doctor. In this case, the majority of governments are asking the government to consider increasing the age limit somewhat, and we assume that the ministry is assessing this on an ongoing basis. Consideration of patient safety, quality and trust in healthcare is also an important part of this assessment. I still think there is reason to maintain a special age limit for doctors, but that you can consider increasing the current limit. But I do not share the opposition's description of today's practice of discrimination. That age limits are necessary in a society, I do not think that is discrimination. It is not age discrimination that you have the age limit of 18 to take a certificate. It is not age discrimination that, after 70 years of age, there are increased requirements for continuing to hold a certificate. However, there is a point that older people are generally pushed out of a labour market where they are needed. There is also a point that age limits need to be assessed and adjusted, and it has a particular function in terms of increasing life expectancy. In addition to considering increasing the age limit, we should encourage and facilitate doctors to apply for a licence even after 75 years. Following the 2004 amendments, the Licensing Regulation was clarified and simplified, while ensuring patient safety, by not granting a right of prescription licence other than in cases where this is considered to be appropriate to the nature and extent of the activity. Among other things, the requirement is 20 pst. the position to be taken in order to obtain a licence. In comments on the case, the opposition writes that the way Norway treats older doctors, ‘does not find its like in any other country’, but several have indicated that other countries, including the United Kingdom, have also done so. Denmark has restrictions to ensure quality requirements for doctors and other health professionals who are also related to age. The majority want more older doctors in work, and have asked the government to consider increasing the age limit somewhat. I would like to emphasise again that I do not like the word ‘discrimination’ used in this case. We heal well, to say it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e803	Older people are a resource. The proposal we're dealing with is an expression that we want to exploit it to a greater extent than we do today. Lifelong development supports this. We can look forward to living longer. We've had a fantastic development in life in recent years. At the end of the 1800s, life expectancy in Norway was almost 50 years, in 1950 it was 70 years, and in 2000 it was about 50 years. 81 years. In 2009, according to the Swedish Institute of Public Health, the highest life expectancy figures were ever recorded, with 83.1 years for women and 78.6 years for men. The Christian People's Party proposes, along with the Right, to raise the age limit for medical licences from 75 to 80 years. This is in line with the opinion of the Medical Association on the matter. We also ask the government to investigate the basis for maintaining a special age limit for the medical profession based on professional and research criteria. We heard what the representative from the Central Party said, so we want to review this rather than make a decision about it now. The age limit for doctors has an unfortunate signal effect because it runs counter to a cross-political desire for workers to be as active as possible. Active older people are for the benefit of all generations. This will in practice mean that several older people will have an active life, physical and mental, which will also promote the health of the elderly. Elders who are engaged give meaningful older years. The intergenerational interaction is enhanced by the intergenerational, intergenerational, and intergenerational and intergenerational sharing of the world of work. We should also consider whether time is soon ripe for lifting fixed age limits in the labour force related to the number of years of life. In the first place, my party, the Christian People's Party, has wanted an increase in the age limit from 70 to 72 years. Today, age does not necessarily say anything about the health and shape of the individual. Older people are a resource, including older health professionals. We all agree on that, of course. A higher age limit for the loss of authorisation will stimulate doctors and other health professionals to work longer than they do today. So, finally, the Medical Association’s consultation response suggests that older doctors constitute a significant resource, with extensive and solid competence. We also point to the fact that with an increasingly older population, it is natural to set up legislation to allow better and more appropriate use of resources. Not least, elderly doctors can be a particular resource in the follow-up of elderly patients, of whom there will be increasing numbers, and which will increase sharply over the next 40 years. By raising the age limit to 80 years, as the Christian People's Party here is proposing, this will increase the chance that several older doctors will continue to be doctors until this age is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e821	I would like to begin by agreeing with the proposers that doctors who still want to keep access to their profession should be able to do so, provided that they have satisfactory physical and mental health and that they have kept up-to-date. However, it is necessary to provide evidence of adequate physical and mental health. As I see it, this is in line with current legislation. The Health Service Act provides that health care professionals’ authorization will expire at the age of 75 years, but after that you can apply for a licence. The licence is granted for a specified period of up to two years at a time and after 80 years of age for up to one year at a time. As in the general working life, it is important for healthcare to be able to use the resources and experiences of elderly doctors. This applies not only to the elderly and in nursing homes but also to the other health and care services. However, I find it difficult to understand the argument that the regulation needs to be amended in order to allow doctors over 75 years of age to exercise their profession. Active doctors over 75 years of age may hardly find it difficult to prepare such an application. In my opinion, the fact that some work is required by the doctor cannot be decisive. Consideration should be given to ensuring the quality of healthcare, patient safety and trust in healthcare professionals and health services. As the Committee refers to in the nomination, the active age of the population has increased since the 75-year limit was introduced. Against this background, it may be appropriate to consider slightly increasing the age limit. I would therefore ask the Directorate-General for Health to consider whether changes should be made to age. The provision of the Health Care Professional Act covers all authorised health professionals. Such a review will therefore cover this whole group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e834	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e837	The Labour Party has been turning around since 2002. The questions are: What kind of research and professional assessment is behind the government's attitude to maintain this strange age discrimination? And what does the government know about the intellectual capacity of doctors at the age of 75 that we and the Medical Association don't know?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e842	As someone else has been involved in articles, I would say that this is no longer a strange scheme. Some countries, such as Denmark, have introduced an age limit, and other countries, such as the United States, again use recertification schemes, so that there are different ways of attacking this. In the case of age limits of 75 years, there is no absolute age limit. We want older people to be able to practice. But there are some prerequisites for that, and so they can apply for a licence further for two years at a time until they're 80 years old. So I also said that we want to ask the Health Directorate to go through this and see if there might be any reason to increase the age limit. But we also have to do this by looking at the basis that might have to be for it. Others here have said that just that we live longer can be one reason. Yeah, that might be a reason, but we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e849	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e854	I'm just taking the floor at the end of the day to comment on Mr. Gåsvatn's comments, which I believe were negative in relation to the Committee's position, and the practice we have here in Norway. The description and use of the word ‘discrimination’ – I don’t know if the word ‘hostile’ to older doctors was used – is actually turning the case upside down, because we have a system in this country that allows for recertification. The fact that you can renew your licence at the age of 75 is really an expression of the attitude of the big community that you are wanted as an employee even after you have reached the age of 75 if you want to stay in the labour market. So that's essentially a positive attitude. But then there's a dimension in this about patient safety, and everyone should be interested in, both old-age occupational doctors and patients, not least. After all, this patient safety dimension is completely absent from the posts of the representative, Mr Gåswatten. Then it has been stressed by all those who have spoken today that older doctors are wanted in the labour market, that they represent an important resource in our health care system, and that it is of great importance that we want to continue in our professional life. The change that was made in 2004 was precisely to make this easier and clearer. The practice and ex post experience have also shown that there are very, very few complaints of refusal, of the treatment they have received in connection with the renewal of the licence. This proves that we have a system that works well. Finally, the Committee has underlined to the Council of State that it is asked to consider whether there can be a basis for raising the age limit, precisely because the working age is increasing. It is to completely turn the case upside down to argue as if this scheme is discriminatory and hostile to doctors who want to continue in their professional life after 75 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e865	I understand that the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen responds to my use of words when I use the term «discrimination». Those affected are, of course, those who perceive this to be discriminatory — and these are words that the elderly doctors themselves use. Then we've heard medical representatives – I kept saying – from the pulpit today who say doctors are fine. But at the same time, we know that this dissatisfaction with this strange rule is increasing with the age of the doctors as well. It is the experience they experience in starting a difficult application process, paying a lot of money to the State to deal with their application, with the great uncertainty associated with whether or not they have accepted the application, which they seem to be embarrassing when they have had a smooth career in a long professional life. I am glad that something happened after the Progress Party raised this case last time, in 2002. The changes that came, including: The removal of the requirement of the 20 pst rule, after all, came as a result of the debate that took place here in 2002, because then the big theme was to demand that it be 20 pst. configuration resource. But there is still a lot of specific requirements for, among other things. keeping up-to-date on a professional basis. Today, you have a completely different flow of information and the ability through the Internet to stay up to date professionally than you had before. I also said in my post that I see a paradox in that, among other things. researchers, state secretaries or policymakers — who can sit here for years without seeing a patient in the White Eye — can go straight out and practice as a doctor afterwards. It's a big paradox for me. So the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen says that the topic of patient safety was totally absent from my post. Then he must have heard incredibly bad after. I said, ‘Members of all ages must continue to be able to check in terms of soundness and fitness and be entitled to take the licence from those who conduct unwarranted practices. Everyone agrees that doctors over and under 75 years of age must always be up-to-date on the service to be performed». This I thought was kind of the foundation of it all. Then I see that, among other things, refers to the American recertification schemes. Yes, we had even discussed that topic, we had discussed quality, and then we had discussed the professional content of it. It would have been something quite different than just looking at when people have birthdays, because that's what this case is about. At the moment you have 75 lights on your jaw, you're no longer fit to be a doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e884	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2860]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e900	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e909	The size here deals with a proposal from the Right that has two elements, firstly a shift of responsibility for the purchase of health services for health workers from health enterprises to the Directorate and, secondly, a proposal for the use of financial incentives. The proposal provides an opportunity for political debate on policy governance of healthcare, on the success of economic incentives and on the political understanding of social cooperation. These are important debates. The scheme for the grant of health and rehabilitation services for sick persons, called ‘Retreaters’, has been extended in scope and content in recent years. For 2011, it is set at 484 million. SEK to health enterprises and 228 million. kr to the State of Employment and Welfare of the Scheme. Faster returns may include both sick, partially sick and workers who would have alternatively been sick without an offer. It is a requirement that offers within Raskers re-organised through public health services should be organised in exceptional activities to prevent conflicts between the offers and the priority regulation. For the Workers' Party, it is important to bear in mind that today's organisation, with the tasks of both health and welfare businesses, was the result of discussions between the social partners and the authorities. In this context, it is useful to be aware that the Health Directorate’s status report recommends that actions in the Faster region be continued back in the period 2010–2013 of the IA Agreement. Faster return is a good tool within the objectives of the IA Agreement. 70 pst. the references in somatic relate to conditions in the musculo-skeletal system, which are also the most common diagnostic group for medical messages. It has been shown that participants in the Raskere back have approx. a shorter period of four days compared to patients receiving treatment outside the system. But these figures are hard to use in the debate, because there are methodological problems. Some of this gets professionals discussing, but for everyone it's obvious that selecting the least sick to Raskers back gives so-called better results than giving the more sick a chance. Here, too, there is the inherent problem with and the unfairness of economic incentives for obtaining fresh news, which the proposers are in favour of. Government parties believe that the organisation used today, which is the result of discussions with social partners, is balanced and in a good way meets the objective of responding to the needs of the sick – and takes into account the requirements of the priority regulation. The Labour and Welfare Act has competence in the field of labour law, and this justifies the need to channel part of the effort here. At the same time, it is good for the scheme to be evaluated by August 2012. This proposal provides for the transfer of funds and responsibilities for sick persons from health businesses to the directorate. It is, in my opinion, centralizing and will provide a longer political route of governance. The proposal also calls for economic incentives, which, in experience, can lead to slippage, so that those on the borderline of permanent retirement from work will have less opportunity to participate. Finally, in my best opinion, the proposal does not show sufficient respect for the priorities set by the social partners. You must not show such respect, but on the part of the majority, we believe that it is both right and wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e928	On 3 June 2010, the Minister of Labour sent out a press release on the accelerated system. Societal and business research had then evaluated the scheme. The press release read that the scheme had made it possible for those covered by it to return to work on average 4.3 days earlier in the period 2007-2009. The Minister of Labour concluded that the scheme was not good enough. There's two things about these numbers that it's hard to understand. One relates to the number of days achieved. To me, it seems strange to pick out patients to the system that would still be treated quite soon. I have received innumerable enquiries from people who have been receiving sick pay for months, pending an operation. Why are these patients not the ones who have been offered speeders back? Why in the world have you chosen those who haven't had to wait long? The other thing I wonder about is that, despite a saving of only 4.3 days on average per patient, you probably have saved approx. 400 million. NOK in sick pay payments. For me, it's hard to understand that this is not good. 400 million. kr is an enormous amount of money and should stimulate the government to work purposefully and hard to optimise the scheme. For the Progress Party, it has been important to look at the relationship between waiting times and increased sick pay. This is made visible in our alternative budgets, where we increase the appropriations for treatment, which in turn gives us lower payments of sick pay. At the same time, several reports have made it known that the risk of never returning to work increases with the length of absence from work. The scheme is therefore important in the context of the number of new workers. The Progress Party has therefore called for the scheme to be located in one place, namely at Nav. It is Nav who is responsible for following up the individual, finding the right arrangements and treatments, and that therefore also needs to have the right hand on the steering wheel in order to offer proper treatment at the right time. The fact that the money is in health businesses does not provide incentives for health businesses. They don't save any money whether they offer treatment right away, or in a month. The party of progress is afraid that this money will somehow disappear into the system. There are two evaluation reports of the two schemes: buying back healthcare and speeding up. One, the SINTEF report, pointed out that when the social security system bought healthcare on behalf of the sick, there was competition for the patients. This led to a decrease in the price of treatment, and health care businesses were given an incentive to reduce the overall waiting times. Therefore, as in the past, the Progress Party is convinced that financing through Nav of the entire scheme, with direct payments linked to each action, will result in the best use of the total capacity and the best solution for users. In this connection, I refer to comments from the Progress Party at the beginning of the Budget. S No 11 for 2007-2008. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister of Health to follow up the scheme in particular. I have been contacted several times by individuals who cannot understand why they have to refuse the scheme and instead have to go sick for months while waiting for an operation. They have heard everything from the fact that the disease/injury is not on any list to the fact that the requirement and rules of the scheme are not met. I am aware that the Minister of Health has had to respond to this several times, which shows that the scheme is unclear and does not reach the target audience in an optimal way. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter and I also report that the Progress Party will support proposal No. 3 from the right, which is in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e949	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to. She has also given an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e952	The background to this proposal is that the health care system for the follow-up of sick people introduced in 1998 received a very positive evaluation of SINTEF. That system had the very simple background that most people and also the politicians thought it was nice that we in Norway had a system where the responsibility for the sick money was in the social security budget, while the responsibility for the treatment was under the Ministry of Health, at that time the municipalities. One was unable to see this money in a context. This led to people going sick for a long time, getting paid large amounts of sick money while at the same time what they were really waiting for was a simple and often cheap operation. The system worked well, and it had more effects. One of the effects was clearly that people got faster treatment and came back to work faster, and society saved money on it. But the second effect of the system was that for the first time it was no longer the hospitals that owned the patients. This meant that the hospitals could no longer allow patients to wait without risking the patient getting another offer that others paid for. As the SINTEF report suggests, not only did it have an effect on patients who received treatment through the scheme, but it actually also had an effect on the attitudes of hospitals towards the other patients and on waiting times in general. This was effectively destroyed when the red-green government changed the scheme and established the scheme as a grant to Nav and to regional health businesses. Firstly, the scheme was divided between two departments, but one of which has the same objective. It has the consequence that people like, for example, are in rehabilitation institutions to return to work, where one is under the Nav system and the other is under the health enterprise scheme, but receives exactly the same training, has exactly the same background and has exactly the same objective, nevertheless two distinctly different self-share arrangements and two widely different rights as users of these services. The second is that this is going to be inconclusive, it's bureaucratic, but the most important thing is that today's system means that the hospitals again own these patients. They spend the money where they think it makes the most sense, and not where they give the biggest results for the individual patient. So once again one has come back to the belly and oatmeal problem in the health care system. There is a background to the Right’s proposal, namely that the part that was previously the Purchasing Department of the Swedish Anti-Fraud Office, which deals with time-limits patients, and which is now HELFO, will also be responsible for this money, be held responsible for following up all those who are sick and who can get an offer through the healthcare system, which means that they will return more quickly and get paid through HELFO. It will be a much simpler and a much more unbureaucratic system. Not least, it will lead to people being treated where the treatment can be given as quickly as possible, whether it is in a public or private hospital, whether it is in the nearest hospital or in a rehabilitation facility that is a little further away. So it's the patient's interest to get back to work as quickly as possible that will be the main focus. We are convinced that it will give the same results as the SINTEF report showed that the purchase of health services for the follow-up of sick people had. The second proposal from the Right is that we believe that there is a need to look at the results not least of the work-oriented rehabilitation. We have many rehabilitation institutions in Norway that have a job-oriented rehabilitation, which is very good. Then we have other rehabilitation institutions that say they have a job-oriented rehabilitation, but that necessarily don't have the same results. We think it would be wise if these were paid after effort, where the main payment is of course made when the patients have been through the rehabilitation, but where the final sum is paid only when the patient is actually back to work. Many of the rehabilitation institutions with which I have spoken and which are working towards a job-oriented rehabilitation are very positive for such a proposal. It will premiere the best, and it will provide good and fast results for those patients who need to get back to work quickly. I am addressing the proposals to which the Right is the author of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e967	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e970	Treatment and rehabilitation after injury and disease is important for all. Waiting for surgery or other treatment seems pointless. Many suffer pain and must limit their activity by health and form. When he would at the same time be at work and not receive sick pay if the treatment had started earlier, it became pointless very clear. The hassle-back system has been aimed at preventing people from getting sick for a long time because they are waiting for surgery or rehabilitation, i.e. a kind of ear tag in the healthcare system to get patients back to work more quickly. It is a key objective of the scheme to reduce waiting time for treatment, but also to reduce sick leave. It is also good that private actors contribute as an important health care player in this area. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party has chosen to wait for the evaluation of the scheme from the Ministry of Labour, as organised today. The evaluation shall be completed on 1 August 2012. The organisation of the day, with tasks for both the State of Labour and Welfare and regional health businesses, was established as a result of discussions between the social partners and the authorities. In its status report, the Health Directorate has recommended that actions in Raskers be continued back in the period 2010–2013 of the IA Agreement. We agree, and the Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal that the proposal for a representative should be annexed to the Minutes. In the future, changes in the field of rehabilitation are likely to take place in the context of the cooperation reform. It is absolutely necessary to strengthen the area under municipal control. A lot of people don't get the local training they need. But it is important to stress that this should not be done at the expense of specialised rehabilitation. The specialist healthcare service deals with very complex and serious cases that require a high level of competence, either because the condition is rare or because the issues are very complex. Rehabilitation in specialist health services ensures training for municipalities in addition to education, research, skills building, development work and, in particular, training for patients and relatives. The learning and mastering centres should also continue to play the role they play in specialist health care, because they play an important role in establishing a new day-to-day life after hospital or rehabilitation. In the field of rehabilitation, we have had a long and good tradition for private and non-profit actors to provide services. These are an important part of healthcare. It is essential that these have predictable and long-term agreements. With the establishment of the Accelerators scheme, players in the rehabilitation field have been given a number of procedures to deal with. It takes a lot of time and administrative resources. Finally, for a long time, the Christian People's Party has called for changes to the tender rules to improve the conditions of non-profit actors. We demand the government's work in this field, and we welcome the work of making Fasters back to a rigorous system, so that workers return to work more quickly after sickness and injury.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e989	I have not intended to make a long contribution to this matter, as the position and assessments are well taken care of by the case rapporteur. But I notice that the opposition in this case is cracking. The Progress Party will have the Faster Back Order back to Nav, the Right will transfer it to HELFO, while the Christian People's Party will support the government parties. I have more understanding of the position of the Progress Party in this matter than I do of the Right. Transferring the Work and Welfare Act part of the funds to HELFO could weaken the focus on return to work compared to a anchoring in the Labour and Welfare Act. Today, the Fasters are back part of the agreement on an inclusive working life. The distribution of funds is the result of discussions between the social partners and the authorities, where about one third of the funds go to the Employment and Welfare Act and about two thirds of the funds go to regional enterprises. Last week I was visiting a company in the municipality of Radøy that returned Raskerer's offer to Nav. The feedback was clear that the system was good, it worked, but it would have been a great advantage if the sick got the offer faster. Today, on average, participants had been ill-reported for six months before taking action. This time has to go down. The other notifying party as a problem was the use of tenders and the launching of such tenders within Nav. The company did not know on Friday whether they would have 30 or 60 measures on the next Monday, and the tendering system itself, with one-to-two-year contracts, gave them little long-term competence development. We have heard this before in our committee, but it is important that we recognise that this is also problematic for reintroduction companies. I look forward to the report that the Ministry of Labour has ordered, which is due to close on 1 August 2012, and I assume that these problems are also assessed in this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1002	Proposals are made by the proposers for the transfer of funds to HELFO for the Accelerated Rehabilitation Facility, which is responsible for purchasing healthcare for sick people who can return to work quickly and for introducing incentives into the Faster Rehabilitation Facility, so that health care is rewarded when the sick person is actually back in work. The funds allocated to action in the field of Raskers have enabled a range of services to be established in areas with long waiting times and unmet needs for a more holistic approach. Within regional health establishments, provision is made for both daily, day-care and out-of-patient consultations, and provision is made in hospitals and in private training and rehabilitation institutions. A large part of those who have been referred to for offers under the Faster Back system suffer from musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders. Under this scheme, treatment capacity has been built up for the main group of sickly reported – musculoskeletal disorders. In the healthcare system, the offers within the Faster Back Scheme are organised in exceptional activities in sheltered units as well as in ordinary activities. The work and welfare situation services – clarification, follow-up and job-oriented rehabilitation – of the Faster Back Scheme are to a large extent an integral part of the work-oriented activities and services of the Agency. The need to focus on labour rights was an important reason for linking the Employment and Welfare Act to the scheme’s speeding back. It takes time to develop new services. Information has been provided on the offers addressed to both the population, sick workers and employers. The Directorate for Health has cooperated with the Directorate for Labour and Welfare. By identifying needs, regional health businesses have reinforced the supply of musculo-skeletal disease and the supply of mental health protection. A new IA agreement was concluded in 2010, which runs until 31 December 2013. The overall objective of the IA Agreement is to prevent and reduce sick leave, to strengthen job presence and to improve the working environment, and to prevent exclusion from the labour market. During the last period of the IA agreement, healthcare organised new healthcare services in accordance with the mission assumptions and intentions of the scheme. In its report dated 24 June 2010, the Health Directorate has, among other things, point out that waiting time for initial evaluation and treatment has been reduced and the offer has been strengthened qualitatively, with a clearer objective where work as a goal is central. The health service has established closer cooperation and anchoring with the actors included in the sick leave model. Cooperation with relevant actors is important in order to achieve a good treatment cycle for individuals. In the above report, the Health Directorate points out that there is still a need to develop cooperation with the Nav Local and Municipal Health Service. It is an objective that the development, establishment and targeting of the services of specialist health care should be better adapted to the needs of priority target groups. There are examples of surveys of different needs in different municipalities. The Health Directorate points out that the specialist healthcare offers are increasingly coming into contact with symptoms of anxiety and depression combined with pain as a significant factor in lasting disability. Many of the offers within Raskers have gradually included pedagogical principles in the treatment. There may be change-focused guidance and the use of cognitive behavioural therapies. This type of competence may be important in the treatment provision of frequently ill-reported groups. As mentioned above, it takes time to develop good offers. In addition, cooperation between relevant professional groups and establishments is important in order to provide a good range of services to those groups that are often ill-informed. The now developed services are largely adapted to groups that are often ill-reported and often have complex issues. It would be unfortunate to change the device in such a way that the offers developed in both specialist and hub healthcare are at risk of closure. The offers developed under the Faster Back Facility are a good tool to help achieve the overall objectives of the IA Agreement, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1023	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1027	Does the Council of State think that today's system where two patients who have the same disorder – both of whom are sick, both are in the same rehabilitation institution, both receive the same training and rehabilitation – have two different peculiarities, have two different rules to deal with and have completely different rights that may be used and patients, is a sensible system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1032	And as we put it, it might seem illogical. However, it is equally full that this is a scheme that has both been introduced under Nav – with a third of the money, about that – and partly added to healthcare companies. After listening to the debate, I have to say that the most important thing is to reduce the waiting time in the healthcare system in general and to have more patients treated. But then I believe that the evaluation report refers to some positive aspects in view of the measures taken by health businesses, where they have been able to agree with private institutions or others who have carried out rehabilitation and who have shown positive results. That is why we are in favour of this system being maintained, as has also been agreed between the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1039	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2860]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1059	In all western countries, the use of ADHD drugs has increased, but Norway has seen the strongest growth. It's alarming when a disorder, especially one classified as brain organic, increases by several hundred percent over a decade. With the exception of asthma, no other disease is now more common among children. Fresh figures show that 30,000 Northmen are being medicated for ADHD, only last year the increase was 10 pst. The UN Children's Committee is concerned. Last year the Committee asked the Norwegian authorities to examine whether too much ADHD medicine is being printed. In addition, the United Nations underlined the need for children with ADHD to receive other follow-up and treatment, for example: psychological guidance and organised education. This is the background of today's interpellation. How do we ensure that children with special needs are understood, properly diagnosed and given the help they need? For the past few weeks, I've been in contact with parents who tell thought-provoking stories. A mother told me about a child who kept his parents awake all night. In contact with the PP service, only one option was given to parents: investigation for ADHD. They felt the pressure, but nevertheless refused at the end. The boy got after every normal sleep habit. Author Elin Ørjasetter described similar experiences in an interview in the A magazine on Friday. Another mother says that ADHD doctors have helped her son. It is, however, the only help she feels he has received. He doesn't need much more. But when he loses concentration in school – and he does – he needs the teacher to repeat messages. Parents have addressed this with the school management many times. The answer they get is that the school does not have the resources to provide special treatment. The parents experience it as a fight, the boy that he is being countered. The intention of today’s interpellation is not to ask questions about the diagnosis of an individual child or to criticise parents. A debate on or against medicinal products is not served. Despite the strong increase, some experts believe that we have reached less than half of those who may need medical treatment. The image is not unique. There are many examples of medicines giving children a better life. Nothing is better than helping children who need help. However, the question arises whether the sharp increase in the number of children with ADHD is an expression of suppressed underdiagnosis, or whether children who, for other reasons, have symptoms such as concentration failure and anxiety, are too rapid and too frequent on medications. Are we treating children who do not fit into the picture of what children should be like? Has the view of what is acceptable behaviour changed? Do we treat symptoms — not causes? Recently I heard about a 15-year-old who had been diagnosed with ADHD, and was medicated. It turned out that he drank about. 10 liters of sugary shower every day. Without all the sugar, the boy worked fine. For the most part, the solution is so simple. However, the example shows that ADHD symptoms can have many causes: diet, sleep habits, allergies or more severe conditions such as care failure and trauma. Although symptoms are similar, the causes may vary. It's the same with fractures. Diagnosis too quickly can cause us to detect no defects in the environment in which the child lives. ADHD is not a precise condition, but a list of properties and behaviour patterns. And the diagnosis criteria for ADHD are left in many other diagnosis for children. Espen Idås and Eystein Wåpenstad are specialists in child and youth psychology. In 2009, they wrote the article ‘Are we the best in the class, or are we creating a tragedy?’. They point to how problematic the actual diagnosis of ADHD is. There are no precise tests, and there is a risk of wide variation in interpretation of findings. Psychologists also point out the problem of distinction between ability and will. Concentration, attention and activity are symptoms, but also will-driven processes. And behavior is communication. Children communicate in ways other than adults. Idås and Armenstad mean children who need treatment for trauma, depression, anxiety and stress, easy ports in the category ADHD. Another person who has questioned the diagnosis itself is Dr. Allen Frances. He's no one. Frances led the sample that took ADHD into the U.S. diagnostics manual. Last year he wrote a self - critical article in the Los Angeles Times entitled ‘It’s Not Too Late to Save ‘normal’’, where he, among other things, wrote. We tried to be careful, but we unintentionally contributed to three false epidemics: ADHD, autism, and bipolar disease. Our net went too far, and we caught too many. The newspaper recently referred to a study by Professor Willy-Tore Mørch, where one of three children with ADHD was “healthy” after their parents had undergone a guidance program. Faced with these figures, the Health Directorate's Anne-Grete Quanvig stated that she believes these children should never have had the diagnosis. If the numbers and the assessment are correct, 10,000 Nordics get drugs they don't need. ADHD medications are strong stuff. They contain stimulant drugs such as amphetamines, are covered by the strictest pharmaceutical regulations, create addiction and are traded on the illicit market. In the United States, there have been more than 150 overdose deaths among children since 1990. Adverse reactions such as weight loss, sleep problems, growth inhibition and pain are common. In addition to the biological effects, medication for children often has social side effects. If adults perceive that the cause of the child’s problems is only something inside the child — in the brain — they can easily waive responsibility for the child’s situation. So the question is, do the drugs work? For many, the answer is obviously yes. At the same time, we know that increasing doses are required to achieve the same effect and that new research results show that the positive effects of medication over time have been greatly overestimated. I am pleased with the opportunity to discuss this topic here today. It is crucial, however, not the discussion here, but the way forward. How do we ensure that children get the help they need? How do we ensure that parents, teachers, and others receive the assistance they need? In my view, it's about several things: First, the threshold for asking for help does not have to be too high. The ADHD Norway Association wants special learning and mastering centres, multi-disciplinary lowthreshold provision for children with different challenges and their parents. That's an interesting thought. Parents shall not run zigzags between different professional environments. Strengthening the first line also fits well into the idea of early intervention in the cooperation reform. Secondly, it is essential that the Health Directorate of the new ADHD guide provide clear guidance on when not to use medicines. In the process of revising the supervisor, professionals with different views on diagnosis should be involved. If the Directorate of Health now considers that, as a general rule, mild and moderate suffering should not be medicated, this should be addressed to the supervisor. Medical use should also be considered when it is clear that the child’s life situation is causing the symptoms. The third thing I want to mention is follow-up in kindergarten and school. Psychiatric health is to a small extent the theme of teacher and pre-school education. We can do something about that. Furthermore, municipalities should strengthen the interaction between educational and health professionals. My fourth point concerns mental health protection for children and young people. The waiting time guarantee for children and adolescents with mental illness entered into force in 2008. Last year's figures show that more and more people are getting quick help. It is great that waiting times for children and young people are on their way down, and it is important to follow these developments and constantly ensure that mental health protection for children and young people is of sufficient capacity and competence. Søren Kierkegaard has said that every human being is an original edition. It's essentially positive that we're different. In this context, it's about seeing the whole child. All treatments must be tailored. I look forward to the response of the Council of State and to a good debate on an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1115	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses. Children and young people diagnosed with ADHD must be provided with a comprehensive and individually tailored assistance service, based on thorough investigation and where the user and family participate in the design of treatment and follow-up. As the interpellant refers to, the UN Children’s Committee has expressed concern about the increase in stimulants for children with ADHD. According to the National Institute of Public Health, the number of children and young people under the age of 18 treated with ADHD medicinal products increased from around 8,700 in 2004 to 14,700 in 2009. Among children under 10 years of age, there has been a slight increase in use in the last three years. In comparison, consumption in Sweden and Denmark is increasing faster than in us, especially among the youngest children. From 2006 to 2009, the proportion of users under the age of 18 has doubled in our two neighbouring countries. Denmark has now passed Norway in the consumption of stimulants for children under 10 years of age. There are several factors that have contributed to the increase in consumption in Norway, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t increased knowledge and awareness of the diagnosis of increased transparency of mental disorders improved capacity and availability of mental health protection for children and young people The provision of children and young people has improved significantly through the escalation plan for mental health. Today, more than twice as many children receive treatment compared to 1998. When more children and young people are diagnosed for mental illness, we must also expect an increase in all types of treatment, including medication. The Health Directorate states that they do not therefore consider the level of stimulants for this group to be worrying, but we will, of course, follow developments closely. Patients with ADHD who have extensive symptoms and significantly reduced function may benefit from combining stimulants with other supportive measures. This is well documented. Many people experience that symptoms are mitigated, that they work better, and that quality of life is increasing. Good guidance is important to ensure that each child is thoroughly investigated, treated whole and that the use of medicinal products is sound. The ADHD diagnostic and treatment supervisor imposes strict investigation and drug use requirements. It should be stressed that the diagnosis is to be made after careful examination by the specialist, and that it should never be given to medicinal products without the simultaneous introduction of parental guidance and special educational support measures. The doctor shall closely follow the patient in order to detect adverse reactions and assess the benefits of the treatment. Sintef examines whether the supervisor is working after the intention. To this extent, the evaluation suggests that guidance and regulation have contributed to more sound drug use, while there is room for improvement. The supervisor is under review and is to be completed during 2012. It must be made even more clear that medicinal products should not be the first choice when the treatment is planned, in particular in the case of lighter degrees of the disease. For the use of medicinal products, other treatments shall always be used in addition and the family shall be provided with detailed information. The professional board will focus more on behavioural programmes and that medicinal products can be considered as an alternative to those with severe ADHD symptoms. The Directorate has prepared a brochure especially for parents, children and young people. Patients with ADHD need a wide range of services from more services than healthcare. There are family and community-based methods that can be effective, in addition to or as alternatives to medicinal products. We have supported the testing and implementation of such methods for several years – in cooperation with the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. These methods shall in particular enhance the skills of parents of children with serious behavioural problems. The children meet more competent parents, and they do better in everyday life. Recent research has shown very good results using different family behavioural programmes targeting the interaction between parents and children. This research may suggest that more children with ADHD reduce their symptoms where intensive parental guidance programmes have been used. We still need more knowledge about the causes, processes and treatment of ADHD, but also about problems that may result from the diagnosis. For example, there may be depression, behavioural disorders, drug dependence and crime. The Public Health Institute has launched a nationwide ADHD study that follows children over a five-year period. This study will provide us with knowledge of the development of children as a result of treatment and information on regional differences in treatment practices. The government is clear that the provision of children and young people should be given priority and that we should continue to strengthen our efforts for mental health. I would particularly like to emphasise the active involvement of users in the design of the treatment system. A good individual plan is essential for children with ADHD and their families to have the complete offer they need. I would also like to remind you of the importance of a wide range of public health work and the responsibility we all have to contribute to the good growth of children and young people in Norway. We need to make even more efforts to detect problems early and prevent a development that morbidizes children and young people. It is important to develop lowthreshold services such as school health and health. Such measures are emphasised in the Cooperation Reform. Public health work is about promoting community, security, inclusion and participation in a society where there is room for everyone. This is one of the most important things we'll be working on in the years to come. I agree with the interpellant that the use of stimulants for children raises ethical issues. In particular, it is important to have a critical look at long-term medication for children. Unwanted behaviour, anxiety and impulsivity in children and adolescents may have different causes. Persistent use of drugs does not solve the problems alone. New knowledge may indicate that we should use behavioural-oriented action programmes even more as alternatives or as supplements to medicinal products. The threshold for prescribing these medicinal products should therefore be high. At the same time, we have a duty to ensure that children with ADHD receive the best possible treatment. Whether treatment should include medicinal products must be determined by professional personnel. We know that medicines in combination with good supportive measures provide an increased quality of life. We need to monitor the development of the use of medicines by ADHD, which the UN Children's Committee is also involved in. This is very important, although the increase in the use of medicinal products among the youngest can no longer be said to be strong. When our professional authorities do not consider the increase to be worrying, I see it as an expression of the fact that more people get help from medicines in combination with other support measures. Through the measures being taken, or on the stairs, I believe that we are making a good offer where the proper use of medicinal products is part of a comprehensive treatment plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1157	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am particularly pleased that the government is so clear that priority should be given to the provision of children and young people, that progress should be closely monitored, and that efforts for mental health should be strengthened. I also think it is positive that the ADHD supervisor is being revised and that it should be even more clearly emphasised that medicinal products should not be automatically the first choice when treatment is planned. I am also pleased that information is being given to parents. I think the information brochure is good news, and so is the initiative on parental guidance programs. Despite the fact that it is obvious that more investigations into mental disorders are increasing in all types of treatment, I am still stunned by the fact that the Health Directorate does not consider the sharp increase in the use of stimulants by children to be worrying, especially given that professionals from the Health Directorate to the media have stated that children who should not have been medicated are. ADHD is classified as a brain organic disease, and one cannot avoid asking the question whether the Health Directorate's assessment would have been the same whether the number of cases of brain organic disease among adults had doubled over a few years. I think that is a cause for concern. If the sharp increase in ADHD medication is only an expression of suppressed underdiagnosis, we should eventually see an flare. That the number of ADHD medicine increased by another 10 pst. last year, is not an expression of such a flare. However, the fact that there has been only a slight increase in children under the age of 10 now is very positive, and it is gratifying if we approach the level we should be at. With regard to the follow-up of children with ADHD, the United Nations draws particular attention to the need for educational support measures. Schools and kindergartens are outside the responsibility of the Minister of Health, but I could imagine how the government will contribute to increasing awareness of mental disorders in the education sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1170	I find that when the Health Directorate is not so concerned now, it is because there has been a relative decrease in the use of medicines compared to what may have been practice in the past. Then there is a very high focus that when it comes to giving medicines, it should be under good guidance from the prescriber, but also guidance to parents, and it should be seen in combination with other measures, such as: pedagogical support measures, which were also mentioned. Psychiatric disorders in children in general, there is a broad focus in the government. This is precisely why we are committed to strengthening lowthreshold services and getting more psychologists into the municipalities. There are good examples of lowthreshold psychological services specifically targeted at children and young people, all of which are important both to meet children and young people in need of help and to help them to function better in their environment. Of course, it is interesting to see that where parents get good guidance, good information and good training, children also work better. It is important to build on what works well, and just take the whole family situation together so that these children, who have probably had different treatments over the last decades, maybe, will work better and get the best offer we can give, and also reveal if there has been misdiagnosis, which, of course, we have all heard examples of. But I'm concerned that when you're going to give drugs, it's going to apply to all groups, it's also going to be related to other types of offers, not least among children, because it's clear that initially there's going to be a high threshold for giving drugs to children. At the same time, there are also very clear feedbacks, as the interpellant also pointed out, that just medications for children with ADHD can provide very good functionality for their children. They are doing well when they receive medication, but of course also in connection with other types of action, which is particularly important for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1181	I would like to begin by thanking the interpellant for having a necessary debate. It is intuitively challenging that many children need continuous treatment with stimulant drugs. It is challenging that there is strong growth in the use of such drugs. The UN Children’s Committee has asked the Norwegian authorities to investigate this and to extend the offer of alternative measures to children with the diagnosis of ADHD, their parents and teachers. For a while back, I saw a TV show about an American family where mother, father and children used drugs to adjust the moods and physical activity of the mind. Even the family dog used fixed medications for hyperactivity. ADHD is just a description of symptoms, attention deficits, hyperactivity and impulsivity. Many professionals find it difficult to diagnose because one has to be sure that there are no other causes for the symptoms. Children who are under care failure may show the same symptoms as children with ADHD. Similar symptoms may occur when bullying at school or emotional difficulties. All of us have experienced that concentration and attention are weakened in the ordinary sorrows and crises of life, and it may take a long time before this is restored. There are more views on developments in professional environments. Studies suggest that ADHD children are born with constitutional facilities that make them vulnerable to developing symptoms of ADHD if family and school are unable to respond to the specific needs of children. Others think the disorder is biological, and the treatment is then to administer medication that calms down the children. Many parents, but not all, think medication is a good solution to the problem. However, drug use in Norway varies from state to state. This is due to different treatment ideology and is not due to biological variation along Norwegian county boundaries. ADHD in both children and adults has many different causes, and therefore there should be more treatment strategies. One main problem is that drugs are simple and cheap, while other approaches are more resource-intensive. I have been informed that a research project in Frankfurt compares three groups of children with ADHD. Group A received normal psychiatric treatment with parental counselling. Group B received Ritaline in combination with behavioural therapeutic regimens. Group C received psychodynamic therapy in the form of toy therapy in combination with parental counselling. So far, the group of toy therapy and parental counselling seems to have made the greatest progress compared to the other groups. Many children and adults have major problems in their lives because of the symptoms of the ADHD concept. There is a lot we do not know about cause and effective treatment, but it cannot prevent us from acting on the basis of best knowledge today. It is alarming that Norway is using more stimulant medical treatment than other countries, and the United Nations Children’s Committee has pointed this out. My particular impression, after talking to professionals in the field, is that the treatment system has easy access to medicines and lacks access to other measures, such as: good cooperation forums between the specialist health service and the school, and actions for children living under care failure. Here, medications for ADHD symptoms should be restrictive. Treatment for these children is resource-intensive and must be provided in both healthcare and municipal settings. Here is a lot to pick up, and I am glad that the Council of State in its main post placed such great emphasis on this side of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1198	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting the matter on the agenda. There is no unknown issue for the Health and Care Committee, and it was also a topic when I was on the Education Committee in the previous period. During the budgetary procedure last autumn, I entered a note showing that the United Nations Agency for Drugs had pointed out the high incidence of drug treatment for ADHD in Norway. The ratio was not mentioned at all in the government budget documents. In July last year, the evening post had a major report on the explosive use of ADHD medicines in children in Norway and on the enormous differences between different states. I took this, as I said, on behalf of the Progress Party in an annotated form, and the entire committee joined. The Progress Party is committed to developing a much better understanding of the causal links leading to the diagnosis of ADHD, as well as the living conditions of these patients. That is why, in our alternative budget, we promoted a proposal to earmark 10 million. kr to the creation of a dedicated core research centre for ADHD. The Progress Party also promoted a proposal to ask the government to identify the reason for the high difference in drug treatment for ADHD and to analyse why there is so much variety in the county. Unfortunately, we only got the Right and Christian People's Party on this proposal. The parties to the Government voted against. So what is ADHD? The diagnosis itself came about by a handshake at the annual meeting of the American Psychiatric Association in 1987. There is no physiological evidence, no objective natural science reproducible criteria for diagnosis. There is something that is exclusively based on observation and is a subjective term for behavior that exists in many children, such as: anxiety and lack of concentration. The medication used has a chemical similarity to amphetamines, and there is no difference between street and legally prescribed drugs. The side effects are severe and can lead to nerve endings and cell death. Nausea, decreased appetite, stomach pain, manner, hallucinations, depression, aggression and suicidal ideation are other known side effects. It seems that the neuropsychiatric disorders, with ADHD at the head, have struck down among children and young people as an epidemic. It's over to understand children's behavior based on their environment, society, school and family. Now it's all to be explained by genes and biochemistry. 15 years ago, within child psychiatry, it was almost taboo to medicate children. It was considered irresponsible in relation to the development of the child to administer chemical substances as a little-known long-term effect. Today, these precautions are set aside. More than 35,000 schoolchildren have been diagnosed as ADD, ADHD, Tourettes and Asberger, and more than 27,000 children are now receiving turbulence. One third of all prisoners in Norwegian juvenile prisons are diagnosed with ADHD, and it must be allowed to ask if the diagnosis is overdiagnosed. We can read that diagnosis and treatment have not been renewed since the 1960s. So what's changed? Is ADHD an industrially designed diagnosis? The editor-in-chief of The New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Angell, said, "Before they sold drugs for diseases. Now you sell diseases that are suitable for medicine." In 1995, the use of Ritalin had increased by 250 pst. of 1990. In 1997, the figure was 700 pst. We're talking about an increase in sales in the hundreds of millions class. At Harvard, a long-term study of the effects of Ritalin on rats has been performed. They get depression and abnormal behavior. They develop impaired stress response skills and become completely helpless as adults. If this is the prospect for a number of Norwegian children, I think we're facing something that causes the thalidomide scandal and mercury exposure to become only small eggs in proportion. There are claims that the symptoms we see are not related to disease, but to a maturation problem in specific areas of the brain, which leads to problems with the information procedure, and that it is possible to prevent such neurological dysfunction from becoming permanent, without necessarily the use of drugs. This requires that one sees the individual as a sensitive and imaginative person and interprets what the child is struggling with in his own life, which unfortunately does not fit into today's society. In the short term, the demonstration that medicine reduces symptoms and is simpler and cheaper than alternative treatments, fits as a hand in dealing with a health bureaucracy that will measure and streamline the treatment of mental disorders. Some people think there's a pill for everything soon – but it's fooling themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1221	I would like to thank the representative Haugli for taking up a very important and topical debate, where it is necessary, as the representative does, to put a question mark on developments in Norway and put a foot in the ground and think about, not least with the starting point, which also had the interpellant, in a society where we are getting better and better at helping people with mental disorders, that the framework of society for what we accept as normal does not become so narrow that a formerly and previously in a way is defined as ill or getting a diagnosis, even if one is not exactly the same as a majority at any time thinks a normal should be. It's a very dangerous development, and it's important that you discuss it at an overall level, so that you keep in mind how you develop our healthcare. I also see that the representative Haugli has pointed out a number of successful managers, business managers and entrepreneurs, who, within today's regime, probably had a diagnosis and received that kind of treatment. Then on the other hand, it's important to think of them as at least I've met a lot of, drug addicts, who have a different story to tell, namely that they would like to have a diagnosis, they would have liked to have a drug that might have prevented them from starting what they call self-medication. It's really in the sense that this problem is tense. Then one is back to the fact that it's incredibly important that one sees the individual, sees the individual's whole, and is not only looking for a diagnosis, but also looking at the environment, sees which other things can be recorded, so that one knows that when one first starts to medicate, it's actually according to medical needs. Then it is also absolutely essential that alternatives and supplements are available. Because if there is no alternative to medicines in our daily health care, what happens, of course, is that someone is using what is available. That's why it's so important to expand a good school health service. This is why it is so important to develop an offer of general psychology services in the municipality, and therefore it is also so important to provide adapted training in the school. It is also important, as many have said, that one in school has knowledge of mental disorders, that one has transparency about mental disorders, and not least that one also has a follow-up and an offer for parents. Therefore, our attitude to this issue is that it is very, very important to discuss this, focus on it, not allow Norway in a way to evolve in the wrong direction. But we have to be aware that we also had a completely different starting point than some other countries in this area. There are very many people in Norway today who go around and have become drug addicts precisely because they have not received the medical treatment they should have had, because Norway was perhaps too restrictive at an earlier time to use drugs in this area or had a good system on it. But this is an important discussion that we cannot put behind us, nor with the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1236	I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important matter, for it is our very heavy responsibility that these kids and these families should have a good life, and that we do not use methods that prove not to be good enough or cause damage. I am not medically skilled, but I am quite convinced that there are many serious side effects associated with a lot of drug use also in the field of ADHD. I have a sad feeling that we don't completely overlook the long-term effects of part of the drug use that we see today, also for children and young people who are struggling with ADHD. I understand very well and also accept that this is a diagnosis. I think that's actually true. I also accept that in many cases it may be right to use drugs. I have seen children who, after receiving medications, have managed to get a positive relationship with their surroundings, to friends, schoolmates and teachers alike, see that they suddenly function in a social interaction that makes them, who have never received one positive response to what they have done before, get it. It makes them develop skills, security and personality, which make them positive progress in life. I've seen it, but I've also seen cases where I'm quite convinced that there are other things that really cause the problem that arise. Several have talked about the very narrow normality concept with which we operate. I am not so sure that it was so much better before, but then they sent these unsuitable pods away to special schools and such, and nothing good came out of it either. It is a very important topic in both school, kindergarten and everyday life that we all accept and support parents who may have some extra challenges with their children, without necessarily having to look for a diagnosis to master their everyday lives. So I'm very happy when the Council of State now says that there's going to be a new guide for this, and that it's going to be about what kind of holistic help these families are going to get. Various types of parental guidance are also mentioned, and the concept of behavioural problem was used. Then I have to admit that I have some associations that I am not just happy about. I see a tendency to use behavioural therapeutic agents to treat young people who may be living in difficult situations or who have a medical diagnosis that makes them work this way. It can also be an offense to push someone into a narrow, inappropriate concept of normality, i.e. we don't allow us to be different – because we're different. I just want to be a little restrained by what kind of behavioral programs we teach parents and helpers to use, because it is also important that everyone in an auxiliary unit takes the signals and has the garden up to see if there can actually be completely different problems in the family that are the basis of the problem that has arisen. And we're really on the wrong track if we don't have systems where it's being discovered in time. So I'm kind of in the mood when you look at the statistics. I heard the Council of State say that in relation to other countries, little medication is being used in Norway. I don't know if comparison with other countries is very relevant, because there are many places where the use of drugs is generally much higher than in Norway, and where there is a much slower prescription practice and an even greater tendency to resort to drugs in all the difficult situations of life. I don't think that's the solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1253	The UN Children's Committee has expressed concern about the strong growth in the use of drugs against ADHD in Norway and has asked us to ensure that there is no prescription of drugs for too many children, and that the alternative to treatment as follow-up measures for children diagnosed with ADHD, their parents and their teachers is expanded. I am pleased that the interpellant has seen this case of ADHD medication on the agenda, and I am pleased that the Council of State has responded as she did. The Council of State assures us that the Directorate for Diagnosis and Treatment of ADHD imposes strict requirements on the distribution and use of medicinal products. The diagnosis shall be made after thorough examination by the specialist. The medicinal product shall never be administered without parental guidance and without the simultaneous introduction of special pedagogical support measures. The doctor should closely follow the patient in order to detect adverse reactions and evaluate the benefit of the treatment. The Council of State also informed us that the guide is under review and is due to be completed during 2012. It is emphasised that we need more knowledge about the causes, the course and the treatment of ADHD, and it is shown that the authorities do not consider the increase to be worrying, but that they will follow developments closely. I think that's a reassuring answer. If we follow the counsellor and what has been said, I believe we will avoid many children and young people with behavioral problems getting a false ADHD diagnosis with medication. For moderate and mild behavioral difficulties with an ADHD diagnosis, medication is no longer recommended in the first place. So it's right and important to say that those who need medicine to get a good life should have it. My contribution to this debate will be to stress the fact that both the inter-pellant and the Council of State were involved in their contributions: we must prevent a development that ills children and young people if they are not ill. The importance of a widely established public health work is important. Education services and health centres are listed below. State councils describe public health work as promoting community, security, inclusion and participation in a society where there is room for all. These are very important words. From time to time, it is appropriate to take your personal experiences with you in the Chair. I'm so lucky I'm the mother of six. None of them have ADHD, and no one uses medicine. But I've seen how different kids are like siblings. I've also learned how little our society is to children and young people who are, as we say in Bergen, 'neither for themselves', who are not like the average, but who create it, kids who are good within the normal, but who are not as quiet and obedient as the neighboring goods, kids who are demanding for parents, family, siblings, school and kindergarten, and who don't need medicine, but who need patience, respect, support and guidance. In addition, I have for the boys in a school and a kindergarten that is – and in any case has ours – the most prepared for good girls. If it's an overmedication of children, maybe it reflects society's great demands. The question is whether the schools are well enough equipped to deal with the needs of those who are a little more demanding, and whether we are tolerant enough as parents, as neighbours. Do we bet on early help, or do we have too low a threshold to give drugs? Sometimes it is difficult to be a child, sometimes it is difficult to be a sibling and a parent, but it is not certain that the health care system has the answer. I am pleased that the interpellant has taken up this matter. I am pleased that the Council of State in its response ensures that there are strict requirements for the diagnosis and medication of children with ADHD, and that one will follow the situation closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1270	I have to thank the interpellant for raising the issue. In my preparation for this post, I have gone back and seen that very many representatives in Stortinget, from different parties, over many, many years have been concerned with ADHD – perhaps before 2000, but at least after 2000 and until today. I think it's great, I think it's good, and I think it's important. In 2006, I had, among other things, a question to Sylvia Brustad, Minister of Health at the time. I was very pleased with her answer that time. She was enthusiastic and really wanted to assess a consensus conference in this area, precisely because there were so many differences in the approach and in the debate on, among other things. causal relationship. She was also concerned that she would personally follow developments in this area. I believe to remember that after the UN statement on Norway, there was a report that children and young people who received ADHD medicine had a higher rate of suicide-related behaviour than others. It is clear that it was a serious matter that the Minister of Health at the time should continue to work on – and certainly has done so, I expect. There is still a great deal of concern about high levels of medication in Norway. It is positive that the Council of State more than we have done before, links this with medication and action. At the same time, I agree with the representative, Karin Andersen, that what we are doing is also important. I would like to ask the Council of State why the supervisor does not come in May 2011, as she replied to me last year that it should, but that it will now come in 2012. Is there any special relationship with such a long delay – in an area where we really need a supervisor? The Health Directorate is not particularly concerned — they say that they do not consider the range of medicines to be of concern. At the same time, in a response the Council of State gave to me last February, the Council of State refers to the Health Directorate. The Health Directorate explains that it does not know to what extent this is due to better statistics, better availability for mental health assessments for children and young people, or whether there are social conditions that cause the increase we have had in medicines for children and young people with ADHD. In the service, they say, there are some different professional approaches to behavioural issues. Indeed, some claim that behavioural problems are of a developmental psychological nature and should be addressed by behavioural therapeutic measures. Others claim that behavioural problems have a neurobiological cause along with developmental psychological or other additional problems, and that they should be treated in this way with medicinal products as well as psychosocial measures. So the Health Directorate goes on to say, and this is the conclusion: this may have the consequence that treatment providers have some different practices in prescribing drugs. It's still like that -- there's a lot of disagreement in the trade unions. That is why I still think it is relevant to a consensus conference. I could imagine that the Council of State said something about it, or whether she believes that the measures that are now in place – and perhaps going through a new supervisor too – will hold. When the representative Are Health says that it's the best knowledge that's to be taken into account, I'm incredibly in agreement with that. But when the learners are fighting, what is the best knowledge, both medically and therapeutically? It also brought up the representative Karin Andersen. Consensus conferences are a very good tool. In fact, we have many experiences, not least in the area of child protection, that consensus conferences have been useful when professionals are insecure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1290	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up this theme. When one hears in the media that healthy schoolchildren have been baptized with drugs to sit still, and that teachers and parents in some cases have been relieved to have the kids diagnosed, to go free of responsibility themselves, and then I think it's important that we respond. In the everyday life of school, which is often demanding for teachers, it is desirable for children with behavioral disabilities to have an ADHD diagnosis, because it also includes extra resources in the classroom. What we are now seeing is that medication is widespread among Norwegian students, and the United Nations Children’s Committee responds to over-use of drugs in Norway. We have to ask ourselves, who defines and assesses the quality of life of children? It's usually a set of educational, therapeutic and social structures that define that the different children are not like A4 students, and that are fundamental to students being medicated and no longer doing so much of their own. I think it's too clever to look at diagnosis and medicine in this context. Then the cause of the problems is much more interesting to find the right treatment. It's not everyone who needs medicine in the form of the tablet, but medicine in the sense that mom and dad understands them and can help them get a safer and better life through different steps in the family situation. Children are vulnerable and respond to insecurity and poor stimuli. So what can we do to make children feel better? Today, there is full child-care coverage, and the possibilities of early detection of behavioural disorders are much greater. You have good systems that capture this, that lead to action. I believe that we must ignore medication as the first measure. We need to focus more on finding the cause, and then see what is the right follow-up around each child. I do not believe that only teachers should feel responsible for helping the students, but that the parents must be involved in the scheme that is being run for their children in kindergartens and schools. Parents must feel responsibility and not have the opportunity to discharge themselves in any way because of a diagnosis such as ADHD. It is a pleasure to see that parental programs over time have produced good results. In Norway today we have an offer for all future parents on maternity courses. I think we need to work to get a broader offer around the parental program, at least to the parents who have children with behavioral problems. For growth is the basis of the child's life and future, and the task the parents have can in this way be very demanding. Help to deal with everyday life with their children may be needed by many, and should be made available far more than today. This should be done by the government in the light of the necessary knowledge, offer and content. In school life, it can often be easy to think that parents should not be involved. Teachers too can be very demanding. But I would strongly warn against that attitude. I would rather say that contact with the parents is essential. Some parents have a long way to go about accepting that there is something demanding with their own children, but they need to understand that kindergarten and school staff will do the best for their children, even if it is demanding when this is addressed. Parents can feel that they are not stretching, and experience it as a defeat and therefore withdraw. But they feel that they're getting along with the teachers and the health professionals who're around, and that together they're going to find a good solution for the child, it's easier to go into it. I got an e-mail from a special teacher at a school who told me how she got hold of this problem. First, she had to work to gain trust from her parents and get them to join the team. They informed the child that Mom and Dad were going to go to school and sit there, because things didn't go so well. The parents told the child that this was something the parents had to do when the child was unable to behave at school. Most often, after only one day's presence, it became noticeably better. The child didn't think anything special about the parents having to be there because of their bad behavior. It was quick enough to call the parents when the situation at the school got worse. It could happen several times, until the child realized that teachers and parents spoke the same language and stood together. Often this child who has experienced repeated threats because of his behavior, without it being followed up, and thus ran it in a way only out into the sand, while now the opposite and watertight shots, for poor behavior had consequences. I think this is a huge challenge for all of us, and you have to look at the challenge that lies here. You don't have to have a kind of quick fix with medication where you solve just one thing – there's a lot of complex things you have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1311	ADHD – this disease has been named many times. But it's about children who have an unwanted behavior, hyperactive children with concentration problems, who can't adapt to the social community of their friends, family or school. Later in life, children often have problems with alcohol and crime. But what is it that makes these thousands of children unable to adapt and that they must be treated with stimulants? For the time being, the cause of ADHD is not known enough. It is described as a congenital neurobiological dysfunction that researchers believe is one of the most hereditary mental disorders. It is also assumed that the disease can be caused by damage during pregnancy, premature birth, environmental poisons, food, or lack of important substances. Care failure, lack of borderline setting and poor structure in the assignment can also help to increase problems. Much has changed in society, both in families, kindergartens and schools, which can contribute to this behavior. An NTNU study showed that students in open schools are five times as often medicated as students in more traditional schools, and that is something that politicians should take with us as an important lesson. Is it really an increase in the number of children who develop this undesirable behavior, or is it due to the increase mentioned that many are only diagnosed with disease? What's normal about abnormal behavior, and what's disease? Where's the limit going? All of us are different, and naturally we've inherited most of our parents through genes – it's both appearance, behavior and facilities for diseases or also minded and behaving. The facilities may be affected and developed, but they are located there. Therefore, it is not particularly alarming that those who have behavioral problems themselves have children with the same problems. It is serious to get such a diagnosis, and although many parents say that they have felt a relief by getting a diagnosis, and that they get help from health professionals, they have also experienced despair at seeing that the child does not function socially. It will be important to have a safer diagnosis in order to provide proper help and treatment early. The cause of the behavioral problems or the disease can be many, and it is therefore important to see how we can reduce the cause of the behavior being triggered. Several of the drugs used are closely related to amphetamines, and they have side effects. It is believed that drug treatment can reduce the risk of later depression, drug abuse and crime, but what do we know? What is the side effect and the long-term effect, and maybe you want to discover that the children who are being treated today will get sensitised? Side effects such as heart fibrillation, anxiety, depression, fatal liver injury and attempted suicide have already been identified. Medications can dampen and eliminate symptoms effectively, but medications do not remove the cause of the disorder. Never forget to address the cause or to prevent where possible. Alternative solutions are also available, with better nutrition and changed diets, and different programs have been developed where parents learn self-control and empathy, which makes them tackle their children better. The programmes have been carried out earlier, several years ago, at the Folloklinik, and at the end of the course, the result was that several of the children no longer met the criteria for ADHD diagnosis – that is, healthy children who had simply not received the care, assignment or environment they needed. The right treatment for one is not necessarily the right treatment for another. For many, medication may also be the best treatment in the future, along with other instruments, but it is important to focus on more research to find causes, safer ways to diagnose and treatments that are not harmful in the long term. Treatment methods must be based on a professional basis and cannot be left to parents alone. Some research has been carried out both internationally and nationally, but there is still considerable uncertainty and disagreement among experts. A lot of research remains, and it is important to provide money for this work. The most important thing in the future, however, is to try to prevent children from developing mental problems and ADHD. It's important for the person involved, for the family and for the whole community, and I'm therefore happy that this matter is on the agenda again. I had about the same post about five years ago, in 2006, and the debate was probably also up in 2002. I believe exactly the same concern was expressed by those debates, and the same was promised and said. Developments go one way: more and more medication and more problems. It's time to look at what's really going on, because misdiagnosis or over-medication can have serious consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1330	I would like to thank you for a broad and good debate, with many good speeches – only good speeches, in fact. In sum, I think they have illuminated the various aspects of the matter and brought out the shades. I'm glad this did not become a debate for or against drugs or for or against old-fashioned mission. I also think it is positive that there is a broad cross-political consensus that we have a challenge. Representatives Are Health and Jon Hunter Gåsvatn have both made a thought-provoking point, namely that there are large geographical variations in the use of drugs against ADHD. I guess we can agree that the human brain works the same way in all parts of the country. That the occurrence of a brain organic disorder varies may have several causes, but there is reason to believe that variations are due to differing views on treatment. I also fully agree with the Health representative that medicines are likely to be used because they are simple and cheap, while other treatments are more time- and resource-intensive. It's a cross of thought. The representatives Bent Höie and Kjersti Tops are both within what I feel as the core of the concern: is the room for being different became narrower? Should we medicate away what's different? I can without reservation, and without reservation, join the representatives Höie and Giltun say about drug addiction and people who should have been helped. At the same time, it is important to highlight the examples that there is no similarity between ADHD diagnosis and a life of major problems. It's a cross of thought that CNN's Ted Turner and Virgin's Richard Branson probably had ADHD diagnosis and been medicated if they had grown up in Norway today. Representative Andersen troubles the concept of behavioral problems. It's a timely observation. Who defines behavior as a problem, and for whom is it a problem? The representative Toppe has special care for boys. That's why. Maybe ADHD medication is probably an expression that boys are vulnerable in our society. Finally, both representatives Laila Davøy and Vigdis Giltun remind us that this is not the first time this is a topic in the Chamber. It's probably not the last time it is either, but let's hope it's the last time the rug is a concern message from the United Nations and new numbers that show increases in drug use of more than 10 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1350	This has been a very interesting and important debate. The interpellant summed up the posts in such a glittering way that at least I shouldn't try to repeat them. I just want to say that I think we all have an embedded resistance to just using drugs. But I also believe in what the representative Höie and several others were into, that there is something about having that scepticism, but at the same time the openness that medication along with other measures – and then I really stress, as I also did in my first post, that it has to be with other measures – can give someone a much better life. It is also interesting to see the difference between boys and girls and the statistics on drug use in relation to it. I would like to emphasise again that drugs should only be part of the treatment, and not the whole solution. The focus on parental guidance and educational support measures is particularly important. What I also think has been interesting in the debate is what you've been dealing with in terms of the concept of normality and what it is. I fully agree with that is an important discussion that I think you should spend even more time on than just this debate. Then I want to comment on what I was also asked about, why it takes longer before this supervisor arrives. It is because there are studies at ADHD, five-year studies — follow-up of individuals over five years — that will provide us with more knowledge of both treatment and treatment outcomes. At the same time, the Health Directorate is looking at whether we should upgrade the guide to become guidelines. So there are several reasons: both that you want more knowledge and that you need a better guide – or guidance – now that it comes. To the fact that there are differences between different states: what's the reason for that, will be something that at least I expect us to see some results after these studies. Are there different traditions in treatment providers, or are there other reasons for different practices? All in all, this theme is that I think everyone knows someone who has this diagnosis, or knows about someone. It is so widespread, and it is so important to be able to make good offers that everything has to be done to make us succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1370	So the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1386	Medicine is a great asset when you are ill or in pain. But faults, too much and uncritical use of drugs can lead to serious side effects with severe health problems and diseases — yes, low-dose seagoing medicine being prescribed by a doctor. Many people get side effects that could be avoided if both doctor and patient had better knowledge of the risks and increased access to proper treatment and tapering whose addiction has arisen. This is about preparations that are widely used for the treatment of anxiety symptoms, anxiety disorders, sleep disorders and similar problems. They have a quick effect, and they're a little toxic. But the side effects can often be confused with other, or new, suffering. In addition, the use of other medicines can reinforce this, and you get abstinence if you try to stop. The use should therefore be limited to short periods. It also contains all the guidance on the use of these drugs, but unfortunately it does not happen permanently. Long-term prescription is not recommended, but long-term use is common, the pharmacy association wrote in an enquiry that I received just before Christmas. So what I'm talking about is low-dose dependence, not high-dose dependence, and these are users who don't have drug-related behaviour – it's very important to notice – but they often get side effects that can cause them big problems in everyday life. So how doctors can motivate such patients to step down — which has to be slow — is often difficult to see. And when they don't, you continue a long-term treatment without any clear purpose – you just keep printing. There are few offers of weaning and stepping down for drug addicts in the specialist healthcare system as it is today. So this is about low doses, it's not about drug addiction. It's about side effects and dependence on low-dose medicines – from drugs we get from the doctor in the usual crises of life and throws. I think it's a big and hidden health problem. In their 2006 status report, the Norwegian Medical Association said that they felt there was a need for a nationwide offer to treat drug addicts. And then it wasn't about large doses. It is a part that offers drug addicts, and in relation to high-dose dependence. But the offer is then given either within the care or within the psychiatry, which focuses on that angle. Then you don't catch up with the specific link to this problem that I'm dealing with now, and that I've also mentioned before. The medicines that are obviously the main problem are the B medicines and the ones that are similar to them. When does this problem arise? We don't know much about that in Norway, but it is largely linked to very common situations in life. What we know from research in Sweden – they have been doing research for a long time – is that 80 pst. received this pill for the first time in the context of a life crisis, 13 pst. became dependent during hospitalisation or in the use of painkillers due to a common somatic disorder. So it's not particularly related to this which has an estimate of the amount of ras e.l. One of the problems in addressing this is that this is a problem that the patient gets because the doctor does not actually follow up on what the doctor is going to follow up. Ergo may also be very difficult for the doctor to grasp in the right way. There has been a health problem caused by the body that would help one out of a difficult situation. I also think that I should be so free to say that I think this is about it being faster and less time consuming to continue to print a prescription than helping the patient with maybe a little longer conversations and assisting with other help to deal with life's difficult situations, and perhaps also to live with problems that you've been given. And it's going to work when you get new diagnostics from drug use. It is important for me to stress again that these are patients who continue with the drug, not because they are seeking drugs, but to alleviate the symptoms and side effects of their drug use. So it's not a drug problem, but it can be. I've been away in some cases where the doctor has found out that: now I've written this medicine to you for too long, now you have to stop. Then you stop quickly, and then it happens that someone ends up on the record. For the tapering down of some of these drugs requires professional convergence, and there must be long downsizing. Some claim that it takes longer to escalate on some of these drugs than it does on heroin. It says that this needs to be handled in a professionally sound medical way. So there's a question of how this problem works elsewhere in society. There we also know little from Norway, but the Swedish ASTA project, from 1995, from the University of Karlstad, has looked at the reason that many long-term clients remained in the social office despite large resources being set up to help them get back to work. More than half of long-term clients were drug users of this type over a very long period of time. They had all the side effects that can be described related to this, and the side effects are often the reason people don't get back to work. Is this different in Norway? There's little reason to believe. These side effects, which may be inaction, anxiety, depression and fatigue, very rarely lead to people getting out of a difficult life situation once they get there. People recognize this, the people who work on Nav: this is often the problem with a lot of people who are struggling to get a job. In addition, this is very expensive for the individual. So when we're busy preventing health damage at the lowest level, this is a very good place to start -- at least we make sure that we don't print drugs in such a way that people get sick of it. Here was a project at Hamar called ‘Medisin against pills’, which was started by the municipal supervisor, Georg Moland, and a project manager, Rolf Torod Olafsen, who worked on this field. But it was unfortunately a short project, and you have not received the funds to continue. I'm concerned that we need to put in place expertise in this area, both in doctors and in auxiliaries, so that we handle this properly, because what's happening today is not enough. Then I am also concerned that we can look at how the pharmacies can assist in this work, and I have received a number of recordings from the Pharmacy Association, for example. in connection with a medical call – both a first call and a call for withdrawal – where it is possible for pharmacies to assist the patient with both support and information. It is also possible that pharmacies can help to communicate more clearly when doctors continue to print medicines that are not in line with the way they are to print them. However, they report that the way these systems are today tells the doctor which pharmacy it is that has reported, that it may be a problem, and that they refuse to tell when they see a practice that is not correct. They also mention that strict rules and restrictions on the prescription of B-preparations on paper prescription should be introduced when eRecept has received a national distribution. I think that's also true, so it's possible to get an overview of this. Then they also point to some attempts, such as: in the municipalities of Skedsmo and Røros, where they have local cooperation between doctors and pharmacists around the prescription of these preparations, and that there is a possible model that you can look at — and see if you can make this information available so that it can be made available throughout the country. Of course, you have to look through this also at what kind of extra offers are needed for those who need to step down in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1414	I want to start by pointing out the importance of all patients getting the medicines they need. Patients who need it, often patients with pain or anxiety disorders, but also others, should receive medications that may be addictive, so-called A- and B-drugs, without suspecting or stigmatizing them. However, prescribing and use shall be in line with professional recommendations. Longer use of these preparations may result in dependence and other side effects — including interpellant use. In addition, in many cases the effects of medicinal products will be reduced after a very short period of use. And I agree with the interpellant: it is all too often, unfortunately, that these drugs are prescribed and used in violation of professional guidelines. The exact extent of inappropriate use of addictive medicinal products has been associated with a high level of uncertainty. The Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate have therefore been asked to examine this further, both in order to improve their knowledge of the use of addictive drugs in the population and to identify problem areas for further follow-up. As a result, the National Institute for Public Health has developed its own theme section on addictive medicinal products in its pharmaceutical statistics from the Register of Recipes for the period 2005-2009. In addition, several research projects have been carried out on this topic. It has, among other things, the number of patients prescribed large quantities of addictive medicinal products. The results of the research show that a limited number of people are involved. In addition, however, those who receive medicines through other and illegal channels, such as Internet commerce, street sales, etc., are coming, which we do not have a good overview of. In the case of accidental use, data show significant differences between different types of addictive drugs. The Public Health Institute estimates that under 1 p.m. of patients who started treatment with the analgesic codeine in 2005, such as available in Paralgin forte, developed an unfortunate use pattern over time. The picture is different for sleeping aids and anesthetics. Here numbers show that many patients use the drugs over a long period of time. This is not in line with the technical guidelines, and it contributes to both side effects, dependence and degradation of the effects of the drugs. However, we see a positive trend in recent years in the decline of new users. It has been done, and is done, many measures to cure unwarranted prescriptions. The health surveillance in the counties carries out supervision of doctors following concerns or complaints from pharmacies, relatives, police or others. In 2009, five doctors lost the right to prescribe A and B preparations due to irresponsible prescription. In this context, it is important to develop a computer system that improves the ability of health authorities to follow regulatory practices. The scale of the problem makes it necessary to consider whether the current guidance for prescribing addictive medicinal products is good enough. Last week, the Health Directorate invited a consultation on whether there is a need to revise the current 2001 guide. Here, representatives from authorities, academia, professional associations and clinical practice took part. I'm familiar with the Health Directorate considering a change in the supervisor. However, good and clear guidelines or guides do not help if they are not known by doctors and are followed up in their daily practices. The Medical Association and the Health Directorate are working together to draw more attention to good prescribing practice and awareness of doctors. This may help several patients to avoid adverse dependence and more often to consider alternatives to non-medicinal treatment of the patient’s distress wherever possible. The Roadmap for the drug field granted 8 million in 2009. to strengthen the competence of doctors in this field. The background was evidence that general practitioners lacked competence on drug problems, prescription of addictive drugs, identification of problems and follow-up of these patients. Another measure in the escalation plan is the development of an information channel on drug problems for doctors. This work has been entrusted to the Health Directorate. However, it is important for me to stress that it is with the individual prescriber that the most important work needs to be done. State health services have reported to me that their impression in a lot of cases is that, despite both knowledge and guidance, doctors are yielding to pressure from patients because they do not want to conflict with patients who want A and B medicines. Another attitude might be that ‘if I don’t give them these drugs, someone else will.’ It's not that unusual, is it? This is unfortunate, and with the introduction of the fixed medical device, good reasons should be given for printing this type of medicine other than the patient’s permanent prescription. However, this also shows the importance of patients having good information about these medicines and the risks associated with their longer-term use. Furthermore, it is important that patients who have established an excessive consumption receive adequate help for the tapering down of drug use. For patients to be stepped down from high doses, treatment in the specialist healthcare system may be necessary. For persons who have been on smaller doses over a longer period of time, to which the interpellant attaches importance, a scheme in cooperation with permanent staff will usually be most topical.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1442	I thank you for the answer and I am happy for the work that is being done in this area. But I think I have some comments to make to the Council of State. Once again, it's talkin' about boobs. The drug treatment plan has been stepped up, and this should be done in connection with drug use. So this isn't about rushing. This is about a completely different problem than drugs, and therefore I ask the Council of State to look at this field one more time, because, after what I've learned, you have to look at this as a problem that's not about drugs, and we have to get a professional follow-up attached to it. Nor is it about high consumption or large quantities. It's about the side effects of therapeutic doses of common drugs used for too long. It doesn't have to be about shopping around at different pharmacies or at different doctors. There are actually effects of very common medicines that are very serious, and that can lead to people becoming very sick and completely out of play. Governments also say that for persons at smaller doses over a longer period of time, a scheme in cooperation with the local authority is usually most relevant. Yes, it is, especially when the doctor does what he or she should, not continuing this prescription, but manages to escalate it, spend time on the conversations that may need, or make sure that the patient gets other adequate help, because many of these might need the help of specialist health care because the side effects are so strong, and the addiction is so strong. So it's pointed out that last year, five doctors were taken from the license because of this. Knowing the extent to which such medicines are printed over such a long period of time suggests that that system needs to be substantially tightened up. The last thing I'm in the mood for is that they say there's a limited number that gets this problem, and that there's a decrease in use. I want us to go inside and look at what drugs we're talking about. I'm talking about the B preparations, but there are also some of the substitutes that came in here, which might have the same kind of side effects. It's very difficult, given the numbers I've looked at, to see that there's some decline in use. As we talked about instead in terms of ADHD and the medication of children, the use of children is increasing, at least in terms of the statistics I've been in and looked at today. I think that is very worrying when we know how serious this can have for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1455	The interpellant says this isn't about drugs, but in some context it can have the same consequences. My concern in this is just that we are trying to do a job where we contribute to both the guidance and training of doctors and those who have the first and foremost contact, the primary contact, with patients. I know that a lot of work has been done on this field over a long time. An instructor was published as early as 1990, and a consensus conference was held in 1996 on some medicinal products. This – old – guide from 1990 has been revised, and the Health Directorate now assesses the need to revise this guide again. I also believe that the establishment of the fixed medical system has been important, and in the context of the cooperation reform, we will pay even more attention to the decision-makers and their responsibilities towards patients. I have good faith that, as there has also become much more attention in society in general, this will be better in the context of the Cooperation Reform. Knowledge is, of course, essential also in order to improve routines. I also very much agree with the interpellant that the use of eRecept, common computer systems, will give us much better both statistics and overview, and will also be able to prevent abuse if someone has come so far. But I also very much agree that we need to do what we can to reduce the use of medicines in general. I don't mean in any way to minimize children's use of drugs, but I'm just saying that sometimes it's right, and then we also have to have an openness to it. However, it should never be given as the only measure, either to children or to adults; it must also be seen in a larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1469	The interpellant addresses an important theme that I think it's good that we focus on. Well, it's like a lot of us sometimes in life will need so-called "B" preparations. For most people it is that we benefit from it for a short period of time – maybe we have severe pains or we are in a difficult mental period. It is important not to define the use of B-drugs as harmful, but that it is the use that does not have a good follow-up that contributes to addiction. So it's the way with us people that we're very different, even when it comes to how we react to preparations and how fast we process addiction. Unfortunately, for some, the use of ‘B’ preparations is the entrance to a widespread use that makes them dependent. Then it is important that we have health professionals who see the danger signals and take them seriously. As I know it, most people who need A-preparations for a period of time get a plan for use, and that plan includes a degressive plan that will help them step down, then stop completely. This might also be the solution for those who are going to go on B-preparations over time. Then they would have a close follow-up of the use and the need. In addition, a plan requires a good dialogue between the patient and the doctor, and it will provide opportunities to think about alternatives to medication. For those who are already struggling with addiction, there are many measures that the doctor can take, such as: to print smaller doses, yes, down to the daily requirement. The Health Minister describes in his response to the interpellant many measures taken to prevent irresponsible prescriptions. I think it is good that the Health Directorate has carried out a consultation and that they consider a change in the guide for prescribing addictive drugs. Actions, guides and guidelines are fine, but this requires doctors to follow them. One of the intentions of the fixed medical system was to prevent people from going from doctor to doctor and getting drugs. Today’s system is such that if you go to a doctor or another doctor other than the prescriber, they should preferably not print B medicines, and if they do, there should only be a dose that ensures you until you have the opportunity to contact your prescriber. Unfortunately, it seems that it is the decision that over time prints addictive drugs – perhaps because they give up too much pressure or that they are unable to take the unpleasant conversation. We can't have it that way. As others have said, the new eRecept system is a contribution to preventing people from falsifying prescriptions and thus obtaining drugs. It also provides a better overview of consumption, making it more difficult to go from doctor to doctor to obtain B-medicines, and you can follow what the individual doctor writes. In the interaction reform, the focus is on increasing the use of more professions in the health field, and many municipalities today have used the system of recruiting psychologists in the municipality. It is a contribution to getting more focus on a broader treatment than printing drugs. We also know that learning and mastering centres help people live with their diseases and their plagues, and they focus on how people can cope with everyday life. It can contribute to a reduced need for addictive drugs. It is important to take into account that the use of B preparations in a shorter period is something that we all may need. That's not the challenge; the challenge is those who go on these drugs for a long time and develop addiction. This is a matter that cannot be resolved by decision alone. Doctors must set aside time for individual patients and constantly consider alternatives to the use of addictive drugs. It is the symptoms that are treated with preparations and not the cause of the symptoms. At the same time, it is important that, when the products are used, a plan for use must be considered and not least for a post-stamping.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1492	In recent years, the problem raised here has become increasingly apparent. Even more often, I encounter people who have sad stories to tell – stories about pill use totally out of control, about people with a childhood where one of the parents was constantly in a fog of pillage, about people who have been in a serious accident and then being pumped full of drugs over a long period of time and then developing an addiction, about people with anxiety and depression that are not met with conversations and guidance, but simply with pills in all colors and sizes. Similar to all of these stories is that the people initially didn't need to rush. The starting point is an injury or disease that results in the need for a pill, and a health care service that does not provide sufficient information, guidance and follow-up, so that the use of pills becomes correct and sensible. Sometimes the doctor ends up with large-scale pills, and an addiction arises. It scares me when I meet heavy drug users who say that drug abuse did not start as a need to rush, that it did not start as an experiment, and curiosity, of a youth, but that it is simply about a massive distribution of several types of pills due to something quite different. And it's about doctors who suddenly one day realize that the pill usage is at the top, and who almost without warning cut the delivery. That's when it comes out of control many times. Desperate and despair, they put in what they get there and then, and the consequences become a addiction that goes on and on, totally out of control and with all the disadvantages that addiction actually is and gives. A close friend of mine came in such a situation. Constant headaches that were never found to cause her to continue eating painkillers. The dose and volume increased slowly, but was safe. After that, she set the bell on the ring an hour before she had to get up – to take her dose of painkillers and get the effect of it before she actually had to get up. A day no longer worked any types or quantities. She had come to a point where the painkillers made her feel healthier rather than better, and she asked for help. My friend was lucky. She was admitted to Ahus with the tapering of pills over time--heavy roof, she said, but still absolutely necessary. She was happy to have had this opportunity, as the option could have become like too many others who become addicted to addictive drugs: loss of their own identity, families in disintegration, children who suffer, or that you simply can't be in their job anymore. Many end up with dissatisfaction and a ruined life. Drug use is easier to hide than alcoholism and drug abuse. Often the addict himself, or those close to him, has to tell us about a problem in order for the environment to discover it. This means that abuse can occur for years in the hidden. We need to raise awareness about use, knowledge of side effects, ways of stepping down and, above all, prevention of this happening. The doctors need more awareness. Apothecary needs greater awareness. And we, we need to focus on the problem. We can no longer accept, we have to react.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1511	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing an important debate which in many ways is really about how, to a greater extent than today, it is going to make the decision-makers strive for what is considered good practice in this area. It's very important what the interpellant takes up, that one separates this from a discussion about what a person might call the misuse of drugs, and that this is really about a misuse, or over-consumption, of legal drugs. The Minister of Health has been involved in some of the areas under discussion. It is clear that a prescription register will be a crucial tool for a better overview of drug use. Not least, it will also be a tool to enable pharmacies to follow more closely what is their duty under the Health Care Act, which also includes pharmacists, namely the obligation to notify if they see that there is a practice on the part of the doctor that is not good. The increased use of pharmaceutical competence as a second opinion for pharmaceutical use is an important tool in many areas. I also think many patients themselves would like to have a drug review at the pharmacy. It is also important for those who are in hospital or hospitalisation. We know that works with regard to the misuse of medicines. What is also important in relation to the practice of decision-makers is to grasp what in many ways is perhaps the most central driving force for doctors and health professionals in general, namely the genuine desire to practice in line with what is good medicine. This motivation is not best driven by control and penalties, but by having the opportunity to discuss and compare your own practices with those of your colleagues. That is why it is the proposal of mandatory groups of Members of the political groups, such as the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which were included in the context of the Cooperation Reform and which also received the support of the Government parties, a system which I believe would be of great importance in this area. In particular, it is relevant if the Medical Association is also able to see to it that they are to be general specialists. In this way, everyone will initially participate in this type of group of colleagues, making it much easier to make a compulsory scheme for everyone. At that time, decision-makers in an area will meet regularly to compare their own practices and discuss national guidelines in different areas, not least in the field of medicinal products. What might give the individual firm just the security to say no, to follow the guidelines, is that one feels that one has a basis for discussion with colleagues. There is no doubt that some policymakers who are still in exclusive practice may have a greater tendency to develop an unlucky practice than those who work in a joint office where they have the opportunity to discuss their own assessments with colleagues. However, it is also important in this area to consider what is the alternative to drug use itself, because, as the interpellant was involved, much of this type of drug is linked to, for example, different types of life crises. It's an area that we see growing very much, also linked to mental illness and sick leave. In this regard, it is important, in the opinion of the Right, when discussing the development of the public health service, not only to look at the need for new fixed doctors, but also to the need for fixed doctors for new colleagues who are not doctors but who have a different type of medical competence. This could be done, for example, by: be psychologists and specialist psychologists who may be the partners that the doctor can use as an alternative to printing only a medicine, when the doctor does not feel that he or she is competent or has the ability to engage in conversational therapy, have conversations with the patient – instead of using the prescription block.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1522	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this interpellant, which is very important. I perceive that this is often about ordinary people in crisis, and about all age groups, the elderly, the demented, the children and the young. Like the previous representative, I want to use the word mismedication on this. What I also think is very important is that in the patient safety campaign that is under way by the government now, and which is very good, mismedication is just one of four main pillars. Nor is it just in Norway that mismedication is a major problem. In January of this year, I read in Danish Politics that 740 000 people in Denmark are taking so many pills that a large project is now to be launched. It's for patients who take more than six types of medicine every day. I am absolutely sure – without doubt – that many of these are drugs that are also addictive, or addictive. Different doctors have prescribed different medicines without talking to each other, and in many cases doctors know little about how some medicines work together. It's also important. One of the measures is that elderly, chronically ill and others taking six or more medications daily are offered a once a year medical review, either by being released from a hospital or by the prescriber. In this case, the prescriber shall be assisted by a clinical pharmacist. There are more professional groups than doctors who have a high level of competence, and perhaps even better skills than many of the doctors involved, to look at how different drugs work together. Today, we have received a new supervisory report from the State Health Authority, which says that there is not enough safe handling and medical treatment. This applies to the care of the elderly. The findings show that in many municipalities it was not always ensured that the staff who distributed drugs had competence. There were also insufficient procedures to ensure that medicinal products were handled properly. There were also major shortcomings in the cooperation between the permanent medical practitioner and home health care. We also know that in our nursing homes, in the care of the elderly, there are some addictive medicines that are prescribed for the elderly. I want to get into two measures that no one has been involved, but which may be interesting to go into. Both are in progress. One is that the hospital pharmacy at Diakonhemmet – the representative Andersen was also in the pharmacy – has started an offer where outpatients can be referred by a doctor to a clinical pharmacy for an extended medical interview. Here the conversation is prepared for current drug use, hospital history and, of course, the patient's wishes and needs. It's a follow-up conversation after four to six weeks. Each conversation is documented and a doctor contacted if necessary. It is an exciting work, which can be developed also by ordinary pharmacies or other hospital pharmacy, in my opinion. The second thing I want to point out is that Norwegian Hospital Farmers' Association's hearing opinion on the new municipal health and care law, where they are talking about developing a drug review with regard to drug-related problems. What they are proposing there is that these should become national quality indicators, i.e. that this can be used as a national quality indicator. There are methods already implemented in a number of interdisciplinary teams of doctors, pharmacists and nurses in several hospital departments. However, this can be transformed into national quality indicators. We don't have enough of these. We are really looking for quality indicators in healthcare that can be used in a good way. We see that patients experience drug-related problems on a daily basis in all parts of the healthcare system. There are also some studies that you can go in and look at. These are at least two measures that I think could be good for further development. It is a major problem that many people get too high a dose — or too low, for that matter — or unlucky combinations of medicines, including addictive ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1543	Suffering if there are not many figures from Norway, I am absolutely convinced that there is not much different in Norway than in Sweden, namely that the socio-economic and human costs of misuse of drugs are very, very high. I've sometimes claimed that people get more sick from too many medications than too little. That statement I think is a good one. It is very necessary to strengthen the guidance and training of doctors. That was exactly the project on the Hamar project. It was not possible to continue, but the Medical Association has considered that a national offer is needed for drug addicts. The medical expertise in this country suggests that we do something more than what we do today. I think that's important. I assume that doctors can read the instructions on how long a drug can be taken. But I know that many of them don't know about the side effects, especially when there's a combination of different drugs. I attended a large conference with primary doctors both in Hedmark and Uppland together with the Medisin against pills project, and there were many of the primary doctors who said that we don't know anything about this, we can't do anything about it. It would have helped if they had followed this book. But in any case, I think we need to get the competence up on the impact of this. So I think there's a need for more national knowledge here. They do so in Sweden and Denmark, for medical reasons, in order to know something about the effect. I think I have to repeat myself a little bit in the end. So it's not necessarily about pill abuse. It's about pill use. It's about therapeutic doses that people have received from their doctor, so they don't do anything illegal. They haven't been on drugs, so they've only been seeking relief in an acute situation, and this causes them side effects that are again being diagnosed, like a new mental illness for which they're getting drugs again – and it's going on. So it's essentially not a rush. That's why I'm so concerned that the Ministry of Health has to look at this again, because you have to have an offer here that doesn't look at this as a treatment for drugs. Because there is no intoxication, but – as many have said – it can end up with a drug problem if the doctor suddenly decides that you have got too much, you get sick of it, and then you stop quickly. Then it may end up that people are both looking for other doctors to get higher doses and the illegal market to get something that mitigates these serious symptoms and side effects. I don't think that's the last time we're discussing this topic. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1554	This too has been an interesting debate on an important topic, all of which has been highlighted. I have at least been listening with great interest to all the posts. The representative Wenche Olsen was very concerned that the doctors had to use these instructions and guidelines – and we agree with that, of course – and that the decision-makers have to take the difficult conversation, both to inform about what the drug can give of side effects, and how it should be used, and to remind them that everyone needs different types of medication during his life. I think everyone can use it, at least. The representative of Kjenaas Kjos gave a description of how drug use can occur in the everyday life of some people. That's an important point. Bent Höie underlined this with the decision-makers and that good practice needs to be developed for a very strong cooperation between decision-makers to develop both skills and good practices, and he pointed out what is quite important in the context of the Interaction Reform, namely that more professionals of health professionals — several types of health professionals — should be provided together in the same practice. At least I believe that: you have to include different specialists of nurses and also different specialists of e.g. psychologists and gamers. I think that's quite important. The representative, Laila Bavøy, addressed a topic that has been highly focused, namely this with mistreatment especially among the elderly. It's terrifyingly high numbers that not only give indications, but show very strongly how much it results from both the suffering of those who are mistreated and very poor quality of life. But at the same time, when the Health Authority detects something, we see that many take care of the problems. It is at least very important to be able to counteract what is a very important point, and which the representative Davøy also underlined, namely this with how different drugs work together, and what the results are. There are many methods, including: cooperation with pharmacies; pharmaceuticals need to be used to a much greater extent, because they are the specialists in this. At least that's for sure. Then I have to say that there are a number of studies also from Norway regarding drug use, and everyone does not go in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1573	That being the case, it is no. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1579	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1589	During the debate, Kari Kjønaas Kjos has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Nav Administration follows the interpretation of the 2003 National Social Security Act § 9-10, where care allowance can be given to parents in connection with intensive treatment and rehabilitation of the child.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1604	In the proposal for a decision, the wording ‘not adopted’ by the majority has been amended to ‘Annexed to the Protocol’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1621	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 3, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the basis for maintaining a special age limit for the medical profession based on professional and research criteria.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1650	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to amend FOR 2000-12-21 Nos. 1379 Chapter 2: Licence requirements for health professionals over 75 years of age, so that older doctors who are able to exercise their profession properly are licensed irrespective of the extent or nature of their activities.’;» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1673	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to amend FOR 2000-12-21 Nos. Chapter 2: Licence requirements for health professionals over 75 years of age, changing age from 75 years to 80 years of age.» The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1695	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Progress Party, 2 and 3, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right First of all, there is the vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals in the revised State Budget for 2011 for a collection of the appropriations for ‘Buyback of healthcare’ and ‘Repatriation’ under the responsibility of Nav for the purchase of health and rehabilitation services for sick persons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1719	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Spring 2011 Stortinget in which the funds for the ‘Rasters Back’ scheme are transferred to HELFO, which is given responsibility for purchasing health care for sick people who can return to work quickly.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1736	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for financial incentives to be introduced into the ‘Rasers Back’ scheme, so that health care is rewarded when the sick person is actually back in work.’ The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1765	In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-14.ana.ud820e1855	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
