ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e64	Representatives Lise Christoffersen, Jette F. Christensen, Ivar Kristiansen, Truls Wickholm and Tore Nordtun, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from Mr Dagfinn Højbrätten on leave from 28 March to 30 March to attend meetings of the GAVI vaccine fund in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Torfinn Opheim from 28 March onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave for the representative Morten Höjlund from 28 March onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Tone LiljerothFor Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen and Laila Thorsen
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e123	The representatives Tone Liljeroth, Kjell Arvid Svendsen and Laila Thorsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e131	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e145	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The Working Party 25 minutes, of these 5 minutes to the Council of State, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes and the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e156	On the basis of the Document 8 proposal, it appears that the proposers address one specific case relating to a housing team in Tønsberg and the allocation of housing apartments by this housing team in St Olavs Borechtslag to interested buyers. Some of the background is that among the interested buyers, the management of the housing law was well represented. Tønsberg municipality had sold a plot to Tønsberg-Nøtterøy Housing construction companies for cost, but without competition, at the turn of the year 1999/2000. As part of the wish of the municipality of Tønsberg to accommodate young people seeking housing, it was decided that 24 of the apartments in St Olavs Borechtslag should be offered to young people aged 18 to 35 in Tønsberg, who had lived in the municipality for at least two years. Under the same conditions, young people with the longest seniority in the housing sector would take the lead. The municipality of Tønsberg entrusted the housing construction team with the operation of the allocation on the basis of the contractual assumptions of the municipality. After the pre-buying period for young people aged between 18 and 35 had expired, several of the so-called facilities were purchased by persons who were city council members, including rapporteurs and/or others closely associated with the management of the housing construction team. Similarly, a brother-in-law and a nephew of the managing director of the housing construction team, who also did not meet the youth criteria, purchased an apartment each. The management's purchase of the apartments was taken up by Tønsberg Blad, who had a number of critical statements about the matter. It was also dealt with in Tønsberg City Council and in the municipal control committee. The Control Committee ordered a report from KPMG that was available in April 2010. In this report it says, among other things, according to the setting: ‘On the basis of the information available, it appears that:’ [[NN, NN, NN, etc.]] On 19 May 2010, the municipality of Tønsberg decided to ask the Ethics Committee of the Municipal Sector to look at the matter. The committee was asked to assess the ethical guidelines. In June 2010, the Ethics Committee concluded with, among others: the following, as reflected in the setting: ‘It has to be clarified that this is not a question of using confidential information, the apartments were offered for sale and all essential information was available.’ But as a member of the board of the housing construction team [[...]] [[...]] Tønsberg municipality has not held a holding in TNBBL. The housing structure is an independent legal entity which the municipality of Tønsberg has chosen to use to some extent as an implementing body for a municipal desire to make it easier for young people to establish themselves in their own housing. In this case, the housing construction team received a land at a cost-free price against earmarking 24 apartments in a housing construction team to a target group, the Husbank has provided full regular and maximum financing on the basis of these assumptions. The municipality also entrusted the housing team with administering the allocation to young people seeking housing. The relationship between the municipality and the housing construction team is on a purely contractual basis. TNBBL knew that it was a fundamental condition for the municipality that 24 apartments should be allocated to young people under 35 with at least two years of residence in the municipality. The short deadline and advertising clearly point to the fact that TNBBL administered the award in view of its own members who had already fulfilled the criteria, whereas the City Council Decision indicated that a right of preference had been envisaged for all the municipality's young people with completed residence. In any case, in the contractual relationship, the loyalty obligation was to indicate that the housing construction team had informed the municipality on its own initiative that it would be problematic to meet the entire municipality's assumption of 24 apartments. This would allow the municipality to consider how the offer could be made known to the target audience or, where appropriate, to other disadvantaged people on the housing market. If the municipality had declined its interest in the project, it would have been natural that the offer to buy the remaining apartments had returned to the members without the age criteria, but after normal length of service. There is no need to impose any restrictions on the ability of the board members of the housing team to purchase apartments if they reach the priority of equal competition with all other members of the team. If there are more apartments for sale than the members demand, of course, the first-to-mill principle applies. However, this presupposes, of course, that ordinary public advertising has been made, so that those who have had close contact with the company do not receive undue benefits from their understanding and knowledge of sales. In this case, the housing construction team believed that the municipality was informed by the presence of representatives from the municipality in the board. Such informal knowledge will not be able to replace the need for a formal enquiry into the local authority in its capacity as a contracting party. The matter is a reminder of how important it is to avoid double representation that can create confusion about roles. In the present case, the problem does not seem to be that the board members have received benefits at the expense of the company they run, but that the municipality's assumptions have been too little followed up in the land allocation. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs points out that from 1 January 2011 legal changes have already been made to counter speculation in the purchase of housing apartments, including: prior to completion they can be owned only by natural persons who will be able to meet the criteria for becoming residents and that, in the meantime, more stringent requirements for the stability of municipal companies have been introduced. I agree that these are rules that raise the threshold for unwanted dispositions, even in this case, although they would not prevent what was the main point in the matter. The members of the Committee have expressed doubts in their comments about the motives of the co-representatives for bringing forward a problem affecting one of the party's leading trustees. In the comments, the members of the Progress Party have also referred to matters relating to the representatives of the SV and the workers' party who, in different contexts, have breached other legal provisions, but which are not factually related to the matter we are discussing here in the Chamber today. I assume that the representatives have factual reasons for their proposal. I have to add that when public trustees choose to trade with companies they are engaged in by virtue of their political responsibilities, one has to look at a closer, critical assessment of whether one has respected the principle of keeping an arm's length distance between the function of trust-chosen and its own financial interests. Otherwise, I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e216	I will begin where the case rapporteur concludes. In the media, the rapporteur has warned against political demise in this matter. So let me start by saying that we from the Workers' Party are firstly concerned that this is not going to be a debate about what has happened or has not happened in Tønsberg. It has been thoroughly dealt with by the political bodies in the municipality of Tønsberg and is not part of this. Secondly, we do not participate in a debate on the premises put forward by the Progress Party in its comments. Instead of going into the principle, the party tries to present the case as a ‘political mark against a political opponent’ and a desire to spread negative claims. In addition, the Progress Party lists examples of people elected from other parties that they believe have also acted critically. What are the signals that the Progress Party will actually give, that one person's violation of the rules excuses another's, or that all politicians are really just as bad – some are just more 'pursued' than others? A debate on such premises does not belong here in the main hall. However, what belongs here, and as I see it as the aim of the proposers, is to discuss the fundamental issues raised by the case in Tønsberg, and in particular whether there is a need for changes in the law on housing law or other laws to prevent insider dealing and speculation. There are these issues that the majority of the municipal committee has dealt with. And to answer immediately, in the conclusion, the government parties agree with the case rapporteur. There is no need for legislative changes. Stability requirements in municipal companies have already been strengthened and changes have been made to housing law that ensure that before completion, housing law units can only be owned by natural persons who fulfil the housing requirements. In many municipalities, there are close links between elected municipal employees and local businesses. The evening post examined the situation in 50 municipalities in 2006. They revealed many examples of immature relationships: municipal and political staff with clear and more invisible double roles, municipalities with close links to enterprises the municipality trades with, and close ties between heads of state and politicians. The former Head of Ecokrim Erling Grimstad has stated that it is his clear impression that the municipalities have a bad climate to deal with difficult alerts. In addition, he has said: ‘How information is kept down in some places is shocking.’ The essence of the Tønsberg case is ethics, not jus. If elected representatives are ethically correct, they're more concerned than keeping within the law. What is not illegal is not automatically good and correct. Similarly, double roles are problematic. We don't have the rules of intrusion because the person who is intruded will automatically be biased, but because personal relationships can help to draw the impartiality into doubt. Ethics and trust are not black and white – legal or illegal. In a comment article entitled ‘Olsen’s own store’, the evening post Harald Stanghelle on 9 March underlined the importance of people elected to care for the ethical spinal cord reflex. It's easy to agree with. The State may provide appropriate legislation to facilitate ethically sound practices in the municipalities, but the building of trust must take place in each municipality. The municipalities themselves and KS do important work in this context, including: by raising ethical rules to discussion and by building a high-ethic management culture. But first of all, the individual elected representatives themselves must take responsibility. This is not least important when own economic interests cross the interests of the Community. Acting in a way that strengthens confidence in elected bodies is and must be part of the job as rapporteur or local government member. Legislation and control are important. But integrity is about doing what is right – even when no one is looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e240	As mentioned in our remarks, we found that the proposal of the representative to assess changes in the law on housing construction laws or other laws to prevent insider dealing and speculation to be a strange matter. It is difficult to see good and factual arguments that Norway's National Assembly should spend time on this matter. As previously mentioned, this matter has been dealt with in depth, both by the control committee and by the city council in the municipality of Tønsberg. There was also a thorough and comprehensive report from KPMG. According to the setting, this is the name of the KPMG report, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘On the basis of the information available, it appears that the acquisition of their respective dwellings is in line with the policies and procedures established by TNBBL in connection with the subscription of dwellings. [[NN, NN, NN, etc.]] There are no specific points of reference in relation to the municipality's ethical guidelines for breaches of these guidelines. In the light of the information obtained during the investigation, it cannot be stated, on an objective basis, that the acquisitions represent infringements of decisions taken or that the persons concerned have acted unfairly against decisions taken.’ Tønsberg City Council also decided on 19 May 2010 to ask the Ethics Committee of the Municipal Sector to look at the matter. The selection was asked for an assessment of the ethical guidelines. In June 2010, the Ethics Committee concluded with, among others: following: ‘It has to be clarified that this is not a question of using confidential information, the apartments were offered for sale and all essential information was available.’ In spite of this, the proposers use the word 'inside trade' in the text of the proposal. The majority in this case also comes up with several misleading and directly incorrect claims. One of the claims is that most of the apartments were sold a few years later without the buyers having bid there. The fact here is that several of the apartments were purchased by parents on behalf of their children, who bid in these apartments. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the late progress party commander in Tønsberg, who had thus bought this apartment on behalf of his daughter – his daughter – and she bid there. So this was a child, or a young person, who met the criteria that were originally set. There have also been allegations here that the plot was sold at ‘cost-free’. That's not correct either. The plot was easily sold with considerable profit. We're talking about a doubling in relation to the price that the municipality of Tønsberg had given for the plot, compared to what a sold her for. There is one point here that if the red-green parties had believed that one could get even more of the free market, one should have voted on the Progress Party’s proposal – and the present progress party leader’s proposal – to put the land in the free market. As I said, it is difficult to see good and factual arguments for us to spend time on this matter. She has been thoroughly treated in the municipality of Tønsberg, and that should be sufficient. This can be seen as a distrust of the local government sector, or – as the Labour Party representative also quoted from our remarks – it can be perceived as a political mark against a political competitor, and a desire to create a negative impression. There are also many other individual issues in which central politicians have been addressed, which have not resulted in the corresponding representative proposals. There I show you, among other things: that, after the 2009 elections, the spokesperson in the municipality of Nesodden admitted to having set up a carport illegal, despite the fact that the property in its integrity was within the 100-metre zone and the border directly to the fjord. Why was this matter not the subject of a proposal for a representative? Well, it might be claimed and thought that he did not represent the Progress Party, but on the contrary, represented one of the government parties, may have contributed to it. There are also a number of other issues that I don't have time to go into, such as the Planning and Building Act. It might also have been noted, if one is to start such a practice as this proposal for a representative establishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e268	We three proposers are very pleased that we have raised a debate related to an area that affects many people in this country, including us sitting here in the Chamber, as elected representatives, as elected representatives. The representative Gjermund Hageseter of the Progress Party wondered why in all the world we had to take this debate into the Stortinget. I think that the fact that the representative Hagesetter needs to ask this question, in itself, is reason enough for us to raise this matter for the national parliament of the country. So this is about the relationship between law and ethics, and how we, as elected representatives, should act in a way that offers confidence to the people, whether we are elected to the national assembly or elected representatives of the county or of local governments. Then it is that unfortunately we have had several things in our home state, Vestfold, which have received great attention, because they have shown that the consciousness of ethics and morality is not strong enough in individuals. This could have been from other states too, but in us this debate has been very prominent in recent times. We need to know whether it is such that we need to strengthen the law, or whether it is such that the law is really sufficient, but whether the enforcement of not just the law, but the ethical reflection, is sufficiently present around a relationship that affects many people. Ethics is not something that can only be adopted. Ethics has to be practiced, and that means we also have to make sure that we have an ongoing discussion about ethics. So this proposal is promoted with a two-part aim: one is to raise a debate here in the National Assembly, which hopefully can contribute to raising awareness and raising the focus on issues that concern us all. The second is to review legislation in an important area, which could challenge politicians in particular, both legally and ethically. We have confidence in the conclusion of the Council of State, which is that there is hardly any need for further regulation now, for example. in the light of legislative changes which came into force at the latest on 1 January of this year. However, there is still reason to ask both the State Council and the Committee to consider a few options ahead. The first thing I want to raise as a problem is whether we should legislate for all municipalities to have ethical legislation. The second is whether it should be possible, as it is not today, for a local government to deprive local government members of their place of trust if they have breached the Code of Ethics of the municipality. In Tønsberg, we have now had a very special situation, in which the majority of the local government, on the basis of a serious case of gross violations of the local code of ethics, has asked the vice-president – including him from the Progressive Party – to resign from his duties and three other positions. He has not been willing to do so, and thus this question rises naturally. We would like to ask the Council of State to comment on this, possibly to look at this in the future. It is clear that it is tempting to make some sarcastic comments about the need for visual tests or other things when raising the question of whether there really is a need for this, that it is difficult to see the need for an ethical debate around this. I think it's very special that it's just the Advance Party that now until those degrees turn their backs on a problem like this. The Progress Party has had a lot of things lately that show that they may have a special need for an ethical debate in their rows around what is okay and not okay. I'll warn you against thinking that just things aren't illegal, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e289	It's a disease that makes me step in for the Council of Navarsete today. I'm sorry for the 2 minutes and 17 seconds I got late. I am glad that I have brought most of the big meeting so far anyway. There was a need for changes in the laws to prevent insider dealing and speculation when buying barges. This is why the government in recent times has taken initiatives to introduce several changes that may have an impact on municipal activities and on the possibilities of speculation with community buildings. The last amendment of the law came in place on 1 January 2011. The Norwegian legislation is now well developed. We have rules that set limits on who can buy barricades, and we have rules that limit the possibility of speculation with such dwellings. There are, in addition, rules of habitability and ethical rules for municipal activity. An overview of the principles of good administrative practice shows that high ethical standards in municipal activities provide the basis for the trust of citizens. A public service provider is in a position to provide the basis for a decision or to take a decision in an administrative matter when he is a member of the board of directors of a company that is a party to the proceedings and is not entirely apprehended by the state or municipality. It is a general rule of viability in the administrative law § 6, fourth paragraph. There are recently strengthened rules on the sustainability of municipal board members. They shall enter into force on 1 November 2011. In addition, municipal ethical guidelines may state that they can capture cases that are not governed by administrative law. Many municipalities have such guidelines. KS encourages all municipalities to develop an ethical code. It is said that housing building layers can have ethical guidelines for their business, for example. has OBOS rules that prohibit the purchase of dwellings in projects it has added to develop. Under the law of the law of the trustees, there is a rule on the purchase of parts. The general rule is that only natural persons can be tenants, i.e. the user ownership principle. Subscribers can only own one section. The new rules designed to prevent so-called speculative purchases, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, state that speculative purchases are carried out when companies and/or persons purchase several dwellings associated with, or are to be linked to, future sections of barges. If the company or private person sells the dwelling before the part is transferred from the builder, it was previously doubtful whether this was contrary to the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on The purpose of the amendment of the law is to protect the partners in the law and to ensure the user's ownership principle. These changes include: that ownership companies cannot speculate in purchasing and selling building constructions from builders. Infringement of the rule may lead to liability. The prohibition is included in § 2-12a of the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the Let me conclude by saying that further legislative changes can hardly prevent individuals in the municipal sector from acting ethically dubiously, and possibly also in violation of binding legal rules. Several new laws limit the possibilities of insider dealing and speculation with barricades. There is little point in tightening up existing rules or proposing new rules in this field now. However, in such cases, there must always be room for both ethical reflection and an assessment of the conformity of practice. So the representative Thorkildsen raised two questions: Should there be an obligation for all municipalities to have an ethical code, and should there be a possibility to take from people a place of trust? These are questions I take back to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e313	Governments talk a lot about the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law I understand that the Council of State wants to spend time on it instead of what this specific matter is all about. These changes to the Law on Laws and Laws have nothing to do with what happened in the municipality of Tønsberg and the issues addressed in this proposal. The Council of State also mentioned that there was no basis for making further changes in the light of this proposal. Nor is it suggested to do. My question is whether the Council of State thinks that it is a constructive way of working for Stortinget that a representative of this kind is making proposals on the basis of individual cases in the various municipalities, and takes this up for discussion in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e322	Let me first say that when it concerns the specific matter in Tønsberg, it is handled by the relevant bodies in Tønsberg. Let me say that the changes that are currently in place in the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law There were individuals who came out badly because there was speculation in connection with a battleship in Tromsø. The same was true of several other places, and it was absolutely necessary to take a look at the law and see how one could prevent similar situations, both to screen individuals in the individual burette layer and to prevent speculation. Therefore, I am very pleased that this law is now in place and can work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e327	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e331	We proposers raise this matter to the legislative authorities to check whether the law is good enough, and we refer to a case in Tønsberg. But the issue is about fundamental and ethical challenges and the question of action in the event of crime is good enough, and last but not least, what ethical demands should be placed on us as politicians. Greater demands should be made on us as politicians than on others. We represent people's interests and cannot let our own interests go at the expense of the community. We have networks and information that can give benefits, so we have to be careful. It is not, as has been said here, enough that an agreement is legally correct, it may be equally serious to break the ethical rules. In the committee setting, all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, are occupied by it, as the Progress Party has confirmed here. There is a big difference between the issues raised by the Progress Party as equivalent examples, and the case we use as an example. The issues are dealt with in the media, while the example we use is dealt with both in the municipal ethics committee and in the city council. They conclude that the case undermines the confidence and attitude of the citizens towards the municipality. Trustees must act in such a way that their own special interests do not take precedence over communal interests. Their conclusion is that the actions are contrary to the ethical guidelines of the municipality. Even if you have a legal right, ethical responsibility is great. The Ethics Committee’s consideration that trustees or municipal staff who enter into economic agreements relating to public activities on their own behalf must demonstrate a high degree of loyalty to the municipal purposes is good. Particular mention is made of the high requirements of senior management. In some cases, such a position would involve ties to the freedom of action that it actually has. Getting informal knowledge or informal enquiries will not be able to replace the need for a formal enquiry into the local authority in its capacity as a contracting party. If it is that gross violations of the code of ethics of the municipality cannot have any political consequences for political elections, it actually legitimizes unethical behaviour. There are clear rules regarding municipal employees. They're at risk for the job. On the other hand, the Code of Ethics of the municipality has little meaning for elected people, other than to be a newspaper food for a few weeks. I agree with the majority of the committee that the new legislation, which was also in force in the Council of State, will prevent purchases as is the background to this. But at the same time, I believe that we should consider including provisions in the municipal law that oblige the municipality to have ethical rules, and secondly, allow local authorities to exempt or suspend elected representatives from their duties in the event of serious violations of ethical rules. All elected representatives – and we who sit in this room too – have an additional responsibility not to take advantage of, take shortcuts or do things that violate people's perception of right and wrong. The thing that we've used as an example, we can probably find many other places. It has been used as an example, but it not only affects the politicians involved in Tønsberg, it also affects us politicians as a group. Therefore, it is very important to have guidelines in the future. Therefore, it is also important that a breach actually has consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e350	It is very strange, in my opinion, that we are dealing with this matter in the country's legislative assembly. It is difficult to understand why a fully legal housing purchase in the open market, used by a girl who was well within the target group for which the dwelling was intended, should be promoted as a separate representative proposal. There are enough examples of illegalities and unethical acts committed by officials, politicians and others who should have been subjected to them. Or to put it another way: the representatives who promote the proposal sit mildly in a glass house. If we're going to stick to this so-called Ungbo thing, it's rarely seen a party go to similar frontal attacks on its own. A well-known labor party politician in the years bought, as is also known, an apartment in the so-called Ungbo project. He lives there that day. It seems that both Tønsberg's Blade and not least the proposers think this is quite right, while it is unacceptable that a caring father has purchased an apartment that his daughter has used. None of these have done anything unlawful or unethical after my and KPMG's assessment. However, in the eyes of the proposers, only one has done something unethical. There is reason to ask whether this is a political game that is not worthy of the national parliament. I tend to draw that conclusion. Ever since I was a kid, I've had reverence and respect for the Storting. My first 17th May took up Karl Johan's fourth-class street. When we passed the Stortinget, there were several people who said that here are the people who fit the Constitution. Nor was the respect diminished when I met for the first time as an alternate and later as a permanent representative in this Chamber. But respect for the Storting is obviously not as deep with some others. We've seen representatives who have dressed as if they were going to a beach party or at a football game, we've seen representatives who have driven political demonstrations inside the main hall with Palestinian skarf, we've seen representatives demonstrating against their own government in front of the Grand Council. I ask myself sometimes whether it is the anarchist forces in these parties that will emerge, and whether it is a deliberate act to undermine our democratic system. The size is not a kindergarten or a circus. The majority must have the necessary respect as an institution in our democratic country. In the Old Frostings Act, we find the words of wisdom: By law, land is to be built and not destroyed by illegal means. The red-greens currently have majority power, and may adopt and amend all the laws they wish, with the exception of constitutional changes. But it seems to me that some will move from the reasonable imperative ‘by law to land’ to the more problematic and victorious ‘by rules all activities shall be governed’. We have a three-part structure of power in Norway – a living democratic democracy based on three pillars: the legislative, the executive and the judiciary. It's the Stortinge that makes the laws, and the courts have to punish those who break the law. But obviously this is not enough for the lawbreakers, because the law stands above ethics and morality, we hear. Who has a monopoly on managing ethics and morality, I ask myself. Is the ethics referred to the individual's conscience? Is it based on the standards given in the Ten Commandments of Christianity, or is it based on the more secular form of human ethicists? Or should we draw attention to the Chinese philosophy that forms the basis of Confucianism? I took a quick search at ethics and morality in the media for just the last week, and found that it must be very bad with the ethics and morals of the society they red-green currently rule. It was claimed that Norwegian dentists are without ethics and morality. Our soldiers in Afghanistan the same thing. Norwegian aid workers, the banking industry and the insurance industry, too. The Workers' Party has removed the ethics and the morals of the Constitution built on, we can read. The Joint Sports Association does not have ethics and morality. The entire science of nature is accused of almost being guided by the fact that dark forces and of being without moral and ethical reflection – just to mention some groups that during the last week, according to some, deserve to be condemned. It's almost as if you feel committed to the inquisition. In the 1970s, Inger Lise Rypdal had a huge success with the song "Mrs. Johnsen". We were told how the ‘Surveillance of High Morality’ would take the daughter from the young teenage mother because her conduct of life did not fit in with those who guarded the place’s morals. But Mrs. Johnsen didn't get pelle on her nose and revealed the double morals of both the lentil man, the pastor, the teacher and the doctor. And she ended with: «Is it from this collection of hypocrites I hear that I am not stretching, because my skirting edge is closer to the sky you never come to?» There were many who recognized themselves in this text about power humans moralizing over others, but at the same time they do not live up to the way of life they claim others must have. I don't know about Steinar Gullvåg, Inga Marte Thorkildsen and Sonja Mandt have kept their path so clean that they are entitled to throw stones and lift their moral index finger. And who should set the standard of whether their conduct has been morally and ethically sound? Is it the pray-house environment in the South or is it the crowd in the Blitz House who manages that truth? At least it shouldn't be the Storting. I note that the only proposal from these people since I came into the Storting is what we have to deal with today, with the exception of a proposal in the same street that was drawn. The proposal we have here today should, in the name of propriety, have been drawn, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e377	The President stresses that it was a quote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e380	I noticed the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn's somewhat specific definition of the ethical concepts, and the fact that he cast doubt on the ethical codes that exist in the municipalities. May I remind you, then, that the ethical legislation in force in the municipality of Tønsberg was adopted by the then rapporteur, who was a representative of the Progress Party, and that it is, in confusion, similar to the ethical legislation that the Progress Party itself has adopted on its own behalf and that is on the party's website. On the other hand, it is very interesting to discuss how this party, and to the extent that other parties, comply with the ethical concepts enshrined in these codes. I am pleased that the committee, when examining this proposal for a representative, unequivocally states that it would not be lawful today to buy Ungbo apartments without even living in them, continue to rent for a few years, and then sell the apartments with good profit. That's what the Ungbo case was about, with the quirky addition that there were therefore active local politicians in majority, closely related to Tønsberg-Nøtterøy Housing Construction Teams, who took advantage of this opportunity. At the time the house trade was done, this was fully legal. I also notice that OBOS, who has now taken over Tønsberg-Nøtterøy Housing Construction Act, has internal rules that prevent its own employees or trustees from investing in projects in which they themselves were implicated. But it wasn't like that in Tønsberg. Therefore, it is timely to recall that both elected and elected employees in the municipalities have a separate responsibility to assess the ethical aspects of their economic actions. So it's not enough that an agreement is legally correct. Elections must act in such a way that their own interests do not take precedence over the interests of the Community. It is not often that representatives from the majority parties on the Stortinget are promoting their own proposals. We'd rather do it the other way. But when, in this case, we want the Storting's review of current laws and regulations, it's because we believe that the Ungbo case actually raises important questions of principle and ethics. The Committee configuration shows that all lots, except the Advance Party, are concerned with the ethical aspects of this matter. The Committee on Ethics in the municipal sector states, as many have quoted, that they have been involved in undermining the confidence and attitude of citizens towards the municipality. The party of progress is a story for itself in every way. So the party, the tradition of faith, goes into the sacrifice role and divides us out as proposers because we have a reputation enough to bring the matter before the Storting. But the most interesting thing is what the Progress Party does not say and do, because at no point do they try to discuss the principle aspects of the matter. Perhaps more can't wait for a party that has demonstrated its lack of ethical attitude more than once. With a logic that would have led Erasmus Montanus to pale, the Party of Advancement instead goes to counter-attacks accusing red-green politicians of unethical behaviour, as if it excused the actions of its own trust-elected. It becomes almost like a criminal trying to excuse his own crimes with other people's lies. Nevertheless, there is something unsolved in the Committee's ethical criticism. Now it should be stressed that the Committee has only considered our proposal in the context of the Ungbo case. The Jarlsø case came later. In our original proposal, which was later drawn because of one at the time of the ongoing investigation, it was also included. The Jarlsø case is also about the purchase of housing. I will not go into the details of this matter here, although it might have been tempting. I assume that Stortinget is familiar with this matter from the media. I note that the control committee in the municipality of Tønsberg, based on a revealing audit report, is criticising the former rapporteur of the municipality, the current rapporteur, for breaching the Code of Ethics of the municipality – a breach which, like several of my co-representatives, I believe should have the consequence that changes to the municipal law have actually been made and sanctions have also been imposed on elected representatives who violate this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e397	When the representative Haugli spoke for the first time, he said that this is primarily a matter of law to prevent insider dealing and speculation, and he hoped the debate would be about it. Unfortunately, Haugli forgot his own co-representatives from the Labour Party and his Socialist Left Party when they started. Call this for what it actually is: this is a general deal with Per Arne Olsen and nothing else. The representatives of the Workers' Party and SV should be brave enough to actually admit it. Then we're about what's the role of the Storting. The majority as a legislative assembly has one task: to give a sufficient piece of legislation. The verdict is up to other actors. The municipality of Tønsberg has dealt with this matter at all appropriate bodies, and the conclusion is given. It may be unanimous or disunity, but it is the reality. Nevertheless, SV and the Labour Party are also acting as a kind of judging assembly today. If it had actually been such that the Storting perceived this as a fundamental issue of insider dealing and speculation in the housing market, I believe that the Left had been present in the hall. I believe the Christian People's Party had been present in the hall. I believe that even representatives from the Central Party’s large-scale group had chosen to be present in the hall. But they're not. Why aren't they? Well, because they feel this matter exactly the same way the Progress Party does, that's like a mockery of Storting's role as a legislative body. I think Per Arne Olsen, like many others, through Ungbo-saka has taken lessons from her in the sense that it's not safe, when one sees what duplicates such things get, that one would choose to act the same way. Nevertheless, Per Arne Olsen chose to buy an apartment for his daughter, who was within the target group. Many of us young people get help to establish us for the first time. We praise our parents for actually putting them in the start-up phase in a period where income may not be the largest. It's not like Per Arne Olsen has bid in this apartment, either. On the contrary, the daughter of Per Arne Olsen has bided in this apartment, and would probably still have bided there if there had not been a break-in at night while she was sleeping and that therefore, in retrospect, she has not found it safe to live in the apartment. I had believed that the representative of Thorkildsen, who often makes himself the spokesman for women who are subjected to the kind of action, actually had the ability to nuance the image more than the editor of Tønsberg's Blade has shown. That is why I am at least as disappointed with the representative Thorkildsen in this matter as I am with the way some media have chosen to handle the matter. We are lit with a critical and searching press – even when she sees the critical search light on the actions of the Progress Party. I think Tønsberg's Blade has a bit of it. But when they go to those degrees over the line and actually don't want to take self-criticism, either, because some of the phrases they've had, I think it's a different matter. It should press itself to get a handle on it. We know, for example. that this case has been the subject of PFU treatment, where some PFU representatives believe that it is clearly within the boundary zone of what is acceptable within the guidelines to which PFU has to adhere. What is the challenge is that the Storting should act as a legislative assembly, and others should deal with individual matters. One might say that this is a fundamental discussion about insider dealing, but the whole setting is permeated by a simple matter, and only it. If one had a principle approach to insider dealing and speculation, as claimed by the proposers, it would have been one thing, but it isn't. It is not a single other matter that is mentioned. Point by point goes through a specific case. Then a rather man should get up and call a spade for a spade. One should like to take a data entry with Per Arne Olsen, but it does not belong in the national parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e416	I am sure the representative of Dale is pleased that there are now also representatives of the Christian People's Party in the Chamber and are taking part in the debate. Proposalers are concerned that the Storting asks for an assessment of the changes to the Housing Building Law or other legislation to prevent insider dealing and speculation. It is good that the proposers raise a general issue of great importance for the local government sector. At the same time, they take up a single matter from the municipality of Tønsberg. It is not, in our opinion, the task of Storting to assess or decide what is the case in the specific case. I need to stress that the majority of the committee has dealt with the principal aspects of the matter. But there can be no news, neither Hagesetter nor Dale, that there are concrete issues that trigger debates on general or principle issues in this Chamber – on the initiative of both the Progress Party and other parties. Fortunately, in this room we also have a relationship with what is going on in the world around us. It is, of course, the task of the Stortingen to assess the existing legislation and, where appropriate, to adopt the necessary amendments. As politicians, we depend on the confidence of the population. It's about whether you're a bigpox or a local politician. Norway is a representative democracy. The people choose their politicians to make decisions for them in a given period of time. Such a policy system is entirely dependent on trust between the choice and the choice. In view of this, ethics becomes important, and that is why it is a central topic in this debate. As the representative Håkon Haugli was concerned about in his speech: acting correctly as politicians are more about than being strict about the law. It is also about acting in a way that does not damage the trust of the chosen ones. Double reels can challenge that trust. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the standards of viability are met both by the individual elected representatives who are able to cope with difficult situations and by relying on the political system. I refer you to the Council of State letter with an assessment of the draft representative. There, the Council of State sets out the current law and recent legislative changes that establish new barriers to preventing corruption and insider dealing. On this basis, the majority agree with the Council of State that a tightening of legislation is not appropriate or to propose new rules in this area now. It does not seem that there are rules that are the problem in the municipality of Tønsberg either. So there's an ethical code. With regard to the invitation addressed by the representative of Thorkildsen, I will not forge an answer to that. But at least I want to signal a scepticism on the part of the Workers' Party regarding the issues and the proposals that the representative has asked the Council of State to take along. A national law is, of course, necessary to prevent corruption, and it is good to have ethical rules in the municipalities. Ethical rules can contribute to raising the awareness of elected representatives. But it is primarily through the vote of the voters in elections that we politicians should be responsible for the assessments and decisions we have taken as trustees for the people. I believe that local government, or the Stortinget for that part, should not be made a court of ethics. The courts are judging from the law. Citizens – in the form of voters – decide whether politicians still have confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e435	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e438	I return to what I think might be the main question in this case, namely: Is it a problem, or is it not a problem that a municipality clauses a certain number of dwellings to a group of young people who are going to establish themselves for the first time in the housing market, and then one finds out further down the road that yes, a large proportion of these dwellings are taken over by those who run the company that has been assigned to travel these dwellings on behalf of the municipality? I see that for one party it is completely unproblematic. Fortunately, it is a majority in the Chamber who believe that this can be problematic. So the question is how the size as an organ relates to this. We, who are behind the majority position, think it is timely to see if we have the law that is good enough to prevent management, with the position of management in the company, from ending up with these earmarked dwellings. So different instances have gone through and found that the law, especially after it has been improved, is no longer the problem. It could be on the survival side. Then you stand up with a political criticism – also raised locally by the press – that it is quite natural that you get when you choose to the degrees you choose not to keep the arm's length distance from the interests you are set to serve on behalf of the community. We're not saying there's been a crime. But we say, by reference to the local authority's own ethics committee, that here one should be acting more wisely, also ethically. And there can be a very good guidance in Section 6 of the Administrative Act, even beyond its actual scope, that is, if you make an arrangement that is not trusted by the public, you are in the wrong place at the wrong time. There's a combination of roles like this one has to try to avoid. I think it has been a very rewarding debate. I wish that the Progress Party did not have a full party ID, because as I know the party in other contexts, they are also concerned with some cleanliness in the administration and with the fact that politicians cannot act quite differently and unbound by neither legal nor moral standards. So I want them stronger back on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e449	I am in my first period as a permanent staggering representative, and until today I have actually met up with pride, dignity and, above all, respect for democracy, this institution and my co-representatives. Unfortunately, I have had to change my view of this in relation to three of my elected colleagues. The proposers Steinar Gullvåg, Sonja Mandt and Inga Marte Thorkildsen no longer deserve my respect. The representative of Thorkildsen has not shown much sympathy for the United States in the past. Today, however, she has accomplished the art of bringing the most dirty of American election campaigns into the nation's national assembly. Double morals aren't hard to notice. Today is a sad day for Stortinget. The proposers, Mandt, Gullvåg and Thorkildsen, have pushed this hall into a mirage of political propaganda and persecution of persons, well assisted by a helpless localist who has clearly had his own agenda in this matter. There is reason to ask whether the proposers have done so on their own basis, whether they have chosen to shame the Storting on their own basis or whether they have received help. The representative of Thorkildsen chooses to face this matter in Stortinget. However, I cannot recall that she has made any proposal for a representative to change laws, make ethics better and improve the morals of Heming Olaussen when he was taken for driving, which is obviously a violation of Norwegian law. And let me remind you that driving rough is the fault of many lost lives every year. Where were the proposers when the parliamentary head of the Labour Party broke Norwegian law? Where were they then the scandal surrounding Troms Kraft broke out, and the current State Secretary, who was the editor of the North Light, was deep in this matter? Where was the moral index finger of Gullvåg and Mandt at that time? I cannot recall the fact that there has been a single proposal from the government parties in these matters. I could have continued infinitely with the red-green – and other parties – top politicians' violation of Norwegian law. I could still have infinitely linked the proposers to double standards, propaganda views and the pursuit of a rapporteur who bought an apartment on the open market for his own daughter, who was then well within the target group that these apartments were previously intended. Let me end with the following: The proposers Gullvåg, Thorkildsen and Mandt have today brought the Stortinge in what I call trouble. I'm embarrassed on their behalf. I hope the voters don't use their voting rights on politicians who at best fit as brochure writers for youth parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e468	Rarely have I heard such verbal swings in a debate in Stortinget that is about something that should occupy us all. But I just have to say that I don't put any particular emphasis on this. On the contrary, I feel that we may have met a sore toe – when you choose to go as far as the degrees in maritime defence as the Advance Party does in this room today. I think in essence that what has emerged here is for thought. When one does not choose to go into a discussion about ethics on the one hand and law and legislation on the other, but rather chooses to go to the frontal attack in the certainty that in the matter on which this proposal is based, there are revealed conditions that have received very great attention from the control committee, from the KS' own ethics committee and from almost the entire city council – with the exception of the Progress Party sail – I believe that it might have been in place to act with a somewhat greater degree of humility. In today’s debate, the Progress Party, which is usually concerned that we should not ban everything we are against, choose not to deal with the existence of something called ethics – and which should be a leader, not least for the peoples of the country, whether we are in a big deal, in county councils or in local government – and that ethics is much more difficult than a question of what is allowed or illegal at any time. I can only say that, in the light of today's debate, the warning lights should probably flash around in the local government of the country – and so far here in Stortinget – because it is close to drawing the conclusion that we have a party, namely the Progress Party, which sees nothing at all critical of making judgements that are contrary to ethical guidelines adopted by the local government, and that the representatives of this party, if it affords a chance, would like to do the same again. I'm just recording this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e479	I have recorded at previous times that some representatives have not been allowed to go as far in personal characteristics as the representative Ørsal Johansen from the Progress Party was allowed on this occasion. I will not fall for the temptation to express myself on the suitability of the representative Ørsal Johansen – that is, the qualifications – in relation to certain professionals, even if the temptation might be present. I would like to express my regret that the representative Ørsal Johansen and other party representatives are ashamed of the fact that questions of major importance have been raised on the part of the elected representatives in the Norwegian municipalities – because this is what this matter is about. If you don't need ethical rules, if you don't intend to comply with ethical rules, the legislation you have in Norwegian municipalities today is completely meaningless. Then everyone and everyone can give the complete bluff in it. However, when most Norwegian municipalities have seen the need for such ethical rules – that is also the case with the municipality of Tønsberg, which introduced such rules under the leadership of a progress party rapporteur – it is because there have been violations of the ethical code. Therefore, I am of the opinion that all municipalities in Norway should be obliged to have an ethical code, and that it should also be possible to sanction this. I understand that on this occasion the Committee has found no reason to reach such a conclusion. Under any circumstances, changes in the municipal law must be carefully assessed. However, I hope that the Council of State will take a closer look at these questions the next time it may be appropriate to make changes to the municipal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e489	It was the representative of Jon Georg Dale who made me redraw. It is easy to agree with him that the Storting must know its role. However, the articles of the Progress Party here today are not convincing in this way. Firstly, rather than discussing ethics in the municipalities, the Progress Party rejects the whole issue. Secondly, where will the party with its accusations that others in this room are hypocrites, and they have to come up with examples that someone is worse? And thirdly, this is certainly not about the Progress Party. This is about individual elected representatives. I agree with No Marte Thorkildsen's assessment. The propitious defence of what has happened in Tønsberg, and the harsh words against politicians in other parties, indicate that the proposal belongs here. Because if the representatives of the Progress Party in this Chamber cannot distinguish between principle and party politics, there is reason to believe that many local trust voters have the same problem. Let me end with what really is the point of light in this case. Tønsberg Municipality and the City Council have taken the matter very seriously. The KS ethics selection has been submitted. The municipality's own control committee has dealt with the matter, an audit firm has been involved, and a unanimous city council has established that the ethical code is broken. That's how the municipalities are going to deal with things like this. So the question is, is there also a need for legislative changes? We're going to have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e498	I found that the debate in this case shows that this is not a type of case that is suitable for debate in the national parliament. This proposal, which was initially put forward in the draft representative's proposal, that 'The government should assess whether there is a need for change', is also not forthcoming. Governments have also said that there is no basis for new changes. Still, we get a debate about this, where a no febrile try to cover up behind that it's of a principle nature. The party of progress is also blamed for not going into the fundamental considerations when it comes to ethics, morals, etc. I just want to remind you that in the introductory part of the setting for this matter, it says that the Committee: ‘shows that the proposers in Document 8:45 S address a specific case, relating to a housing team in Tønsberg, and its allocation of housing apartments in St. Olav’s housing law to interested buyers’. [[2010-2011]] So this is a representative proposal based on a specific matter. If one had wanted a fundamental consideration about ethics, morality, etc., one should have added up to it. But one hasn't. And then it's also shown that we're bringing forward other things where other politicians are also drawn out in the media. Then we're owed to use them as an excuse. It's not at all. But it's a rationale and a question of why one doesn't deal with that kind of single thing. So now we have several things that central politicians have come to terms with the law of the plan and the building, maybe because he's too unclear and difficult. The party of progress has often suggested doing something with it, simplifying it, so that it is not so easy to misunderstand. When a person does not deal with that kind of thing, there is a reason to ask questions about whether it is not a particular party, the opposition, that is to be taken, or what is the cause. So I can't see from the debate we've had now that there's any other starting point and basis for this matter than that one wants to take a political competitor and ask questions about things that are already well debated and discussed in Tønsberg City Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e516	I am a little surprised at the contents of a series of articles from the Progress Party. I will not go further into the matter from Tønsberg in addition to stressing that the municipality of Tønsberg itself actually asked KS's ethical selection to evaluate this matter in principle, as a matter of principle, for the municipal sector. KS's ethics selection says three named people ‘should not purchase the apartments: [[...]] It's the one. The second is the most cohesive control selection in Tønsberg, and what they said. It is on this basis that I understand that questions have been raised in the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the It's black on by the Ministry of Local Affairs. The Minister of Local Affairs has replied that with the last amendment of the law, the first of the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the But I think that the debate that has been here today shows how important it is to underline, in the municipalities as well as in the Stortingen, this room that must be for ethical reflection around the code we have, and the practice for it. Then I would think that both this matter and other matters that have been on the agenda in recent times will be taken into consideration, for example. in the context of electoral training. There we're going to go a new round to the cottage and remind ourselves, both there and here, that we're always aware of the code we have, and how it's being practiced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e530	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3128]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e548	The wood processing industry has long traditions in Norway. It is no exaggeration to say that this industry was one of the main contributors to the industrialisation of Norway in the second half of the 1800s. We had particularly good assumptions through the combination of running water and raw materials from the forest. Wooden mills, cellulose and paper mills made Norway one of the world's largest exporters of wood pulp and cellulose. My own home municipality, Drammen, is a typical example of a city that grew up as a result of this industrial journey – with the location at the river, where the timber was flowing down, and with the proximity to the fjord and port, where the timber products were shipped out. Many representatives in this room could tell exactly the same story. I personally remember the many factories along the Drammen rivercourse and the flutes on the river, which through labour immigration in the 1960s and 1970s actually also provided the basis for today's multicultural city. But the rafter's gone. Now it's just the statue of the river basin that's left of him. Away are also the many three-processing businesses. The large industrial areas close to the Drammen centre are undergoing transformation into new, modern urban areas. Union Brygge and Papirbreadden are old names of modern apartment complexes, cultural halls and a place of higher education. Thus, the importance of the wood processing industry for today's businesses in Drammen has been greatly reduced. We have one more paper factory. It has found its niche in the production of tissue paper for a strong growing market, among others. in China, but owned by foreign interests. This means that the company is dependent on competitive framework conditions if it is to remain in Norway and Drammen. In this way, Drammen can be a picture of the extensive structural changes in the wood processing industry in Norway, and the challenges facing this industry – but not entirely. For wood processing, there is still an important industry in Norway, among others. in my county, Buskerud, and in Eastfold and in the trombone layer counties – to mention other examples. These are corner stone companies in several societies and an important export industry. Industry is an important asset and employment unit in itself with a turnover of 17.3 billion. kr and a valuation estimated at SEK 3,2 billion. NOK – created by 4000 employees. At the same time, it is important because it helps us to process our own forests, one of our natural resources, which, unlike some other natural resources, are also renewable. In this forest there is a great untapped potential. In 2009, almost twice as many timber were found in Norwegian forests as in the last half of the 1960s, although the planting of forests during the same period was reduced by two thirds. Nevertheless, the annual growth has increased from 13 million to 25 million cubic meters. This is due, inter alia, to: that the maximum is only 10 million cubic metres today. In other words, the output is 40 pst. of the growth rate. By comparison, the output from Swedish and Finnish forests is 80 pst. of the growth there. The potential for further use of forest as a raw material in the wood processing industry in Norway is currently limited. An illustration of this is the fire that damaged the mass plant of Norwegian Forest Saugbrugs in Halden on 2 February this year. It led to a complete halt in production over an indefinite period. No one in Norway could take over the raw materials. The only alternative was exports abroad. It also clearly shows the possible consequences of new closures. For this reason, it must be a politically important objective to ensure the future framework conditions for this traditional part of Norwegian business that will enable the wood processing industry to continue to develop and secure growth opportunities in Norway. Then one has to reverse some of the negative developments. According to industry’s own statistics, the number of paper and paperboard machines was reduced from 31 to 21 from 2005 to 2009. The number of enterprises decreased from 13 to 10. There are now seven plants for wood pulp and wood for cellulose again. However, although Norwegian timber processing is thus small in the world scale, it exports a significant proportion of its products – both within paper and within building boards. The largest markets are Europe, with countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy and Sweden, but they are also exported to the United States and Canada. There are still Norwegian interests behind the industry in Norway, but with a significant proportion of foreign interests. For example, the foreign share in Norwegian Forest was 36 pst. as at 31 December 2010, against 25 pst. at the end of the previous year. The Hjørnestein company Södra Cell at Tofte in Hurum is wholly owned by Swedish forest owners. The same applies to Södra Cell Folla in the municipality of Verran in Nord-Trøndelag. At the same time, they own three companies in Sweden. It goes without saying that competitive conditions are a necessity to safeguard employment in Norway. Then came the financial crisis and posed new challenges. In the so-called Financial Crisis Committee’s investigation, NOU 2011:1, it states: ‘Two factors are particularly important to explain why industrial production in Norway fell significantly less than in other countries. Firstly, Norwegian industry produces to a small extent the goods that were exposed to the greatest demand failure internationally, such as cars, consumer electronics and other durables. Secondly, a substantial part of the Norwegian industry’s production of supplies to the petroleum sector. Since the demand from the petroleum sector remained well up through the setback, it mitigated the negative incentives to industry.’» But here we go. ‘For industries which were not significantly affected by these conditions, such as the food and beverage industry, the graphic industry, wood processing and the production of metals, the decline in production was of the same order of magnitude as elsewhere in Europe.’ But we're not going to blackpaint the situation. Over the 1970s, Norwegian woodworking has undergone significant structural changes. The part of the industry that survived has proved to a large extent – both then and later – to be both innovative and competitive. The wood processing industry supplies mainly paper, cardboard and cellulose pulp, but several plants also supply large amounts of energy, mainly in the form of heat. More can be delivered, including: to households. In addition, the wood processing industry delivers environmentally friendly and sustainable products, which are still being developed. One important project, for example: to see which products in plastic, metal and glass can be replaced by paper in the future – textiles based on cellulose is different. However, one challenge is to maintain and preferably increase the Norwegian share of the supply of wood. Parts of the industry indicate that this is absolutely necessary to maintain value creation and export income. In addition to reduced costs, reduced imports also mean more climate-friendly and sustainable production in Norway. Energy is another keyword — even within its own production. The three-processing industry is demanding. Energy efficiency in the industry has increased energy consumption less than the growth of production. Purchased thermal and auto-produced bioenergy from the burning of bark, wood waste, etc. covers more than half of the total energy needs of the industry. But long-term industrial contracts with Statkraft are also important, as Norwegian Forest in Skogn has just signed a new agreement on which, moreover, the Prime Minister and Minister of Industry were just visiting, as I saw in the media. The fact that ESA approved on 3 March 2011 the guarantee scheme for power-intensive industry power purchases is good news. In addition, parts of the industry have, as mentioned, the potential to produce renewable energy for resale. This applies, inter alia, to: South Cell Tofte in Hurum. More legs to stand on are a great advantage. However, they have a problem that the proposed transitional scheme for green certificates does not give them the same conditions as the sister companies in Sweden. The question is whether it is possible to do something about this, or whether there are other ways of compensating for this disadvantage. I expect that there is a cross-political desire in this Chamber to maintain the woodworking industry as an important industry in Norway in the future. So to make a long story short, I have the following questions to the Council of State: How does the Council of State think that we can best ensure long-term, competitive framework conditions for the further development of the wood processing industry, so that it can still have an important place in the future Norwegian business life?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e584	Interpellant addresses the framework conditions for the woodworking industry in Norway. Good conditions for this industry and other competitive industries are something that concerns both me and the government. The wood processing industry is an important part of Norwegian business. It accounts for a significant proportion of our total exports and is important for employment in many regions. At the same time, the woodworking industry is essential for the exploitation of our forest resources. More than a hundred years of experience in industrial use of hydropower has given us a position as world leader in competence and technology, and we have an environmentally friendly process industry that is at the forefront of reconciling industry, climate and the environment. The government wants to build on this foundation through an active industrial policy and a stable economic environment that facilitates profitable jobs. The Norwegian process industry is constantly evolving as a result of technological developments and changing global framework conditions. In recent years, large parts of the woodworking industry have been under pressure due to market failures, among others. as a result of more electronic communication to replace paper usage. There is little government can do to change the global market situation. The wood processing industry was also among the industries that marked the financial turmoil and the international economic setback. Luckily, we have seen a gradual recovery in the world economy and in many industrial sectors, although uncertainty exists, among other things. in our own continent. The government attaches great importance to the sustainable use of the country as a whole, with its rich resource base, in order to increase value creation and strengthen local communities. As the interpellant points out, we have natural assumptions for the wood processing industry in terms of access to raw materials. The wood processing industry also shows that active forestry that can deliver raw material at competitive prices is central to industry’s own competitiveness and profitability. Norway has large forest resources, and we are among the countries in the world with the largest growth in relation to the quantity taken through the highest. The government will facilitate increased value creation from forests, where renewable forest resources are actively used, both in the light of a good business policy and climate and energy policy. The government has implemented a number of measures to reduce the negative impact of the financial turmoil. The measures have benefited the woodworking and other competitive industries. I would like to stress that employment in Norway is now about the level it was at the top before the financial crisis – quite different from that in many other countries. Industrial employment in Norway is rising, and industrial optimism is higher than in a long time. This suggests that we succeed in both our economic policies, our industrial policies and our international efforts to provide good opportunities for export-oriented business. The recent economic report from Norsk Industrie shows that the industry has been successful. Norwegian Industry expects growth among its member enterprises of 7 pst. and employment is expected to increase. Power and emission conditions are important for the process industry. The government is committed to maintaining and developing the environmental and energy efficient industry in Norway and Europe in parallel with the development of climate instruments. In order to support the conclusion of long-term power contracts in industry, we have put in place a new guarantee scheme for the purchase of power of 20 billion. kr under GIEK. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, published on 2 March 2011 that they authorise the guarantee scheme to be in line with the EEA Agreement. With this we have put in place another important piece in the government's industrial policy. In the previous ownership message presented by the government, we said that State power within the EEA Code should work to meet the industry’s need for a stable and long-term power supply. It is very gratifying that before Christmas, Norwegian Forest and Finnfjord agreed with Statkraft on a new long-term power agreement. It is the first long-term power contracts of a certain size that have been concluded over a long period of time. Recently, the ferro-silicon producer Washington Mills in Orkdal as well as the three-processing companies Södra Cell Folla in Nord-Trøndelag and Hunton Fiber in Gjøvik have also secured new long-term power agreements with Statkraft. This means that it is possible to obtain competitive power contracts for the powerful industry. We have also set up a grant scheme for industrial enterprises establishing joint purchasing consortia of power. There is a significant interest in this scheme and a total of nine enterprises have received grants. In addition, we've added 14 billion. kr extra capital of the State company Statkraft. It is the starting point for an investment programme of 80 billion. kr for the next five years. A good part of this will be to expand Norwegian power capacity. Recently, we were also presented with the green certificates that contribute to nearly 13 TWh more force also in Norway. Since its establishment in 2001, Enova has contracted nearly 14 TWh in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. About a third have gone to industry. In total, industry has received support of about 1 billion. kr, and several of the projects exist within the wood processing industry. The government has an offensive policy to meet one of the major global challenges: climate change. Our starting point is that we are to achieve the government's target of emission reductions in the best possible way, preferably without causing Norwegian and European industry to move to countries without emission obligations. The quota system is one of Norway’s main climate policy instruments. The government has determined in the government platform that emissions from the power-intensive industry should be regulated within the EU ETS. At the same time, we want Norwegian industrial companies to have the same emission conditions as EU industry from 2013. The government is closely following the process of revising the EU Trade Directive. However, it is too early to say how all parts of the Directive will affect Norway. The aim is to find a device that ensures Norwegian climate policy in the best possible way. The government wants to facilitate the development of new, profitable and sustainable industries. To increase efforts towards the development of eco-innovation, we have established a completely new three-year eco-innovation programme in 2011. We do this to meet the environmental challenges and to contribute to future-oriented jobs based on the development of new Norwegian environmental technologies. The Eco-Technology Facility shall contribute to support small, medium-sized and large enterprises developing new Norwegian environmental technologies. In 2010, this scheme granted grants to Weilands and Borregaard’s two major demonstration and FAO projects in the production of 2nd generation biofuels, based on wood as a raw material. Norway is a good country to operate in. Norway is doing well, and there are many people with optimism, attitude and good ideas. That doesn't mean we don't have challenges, and we don't have to work every day to make the conditions even better. On the contrary, we are continuously working on the framework conditions for business. I have great faith that the woodworking industry, based on its considerable competence and experience, will be strengthened in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e614	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for the answer. I had written this in advance, because I knew it was going to be okay. This interpellation has a very concrete starting point in the form of a meeting to which the Buskerud bench was invited at Södra Cell Tofte, February 24th this year. In addition, the Swedish Forest Society, Hellefoss in Hokksund, Follum in Ringerijk and representatives of the employees were present at the meeting. We were given a comprehensive account of implemented migrations, cost reductions, product development and extensive HMS work. Businesses had slightly different challenges, but were in agreement that they need more legs to stand on, have competition problems abroad, and that the need for predictability in the long-term framework conditions is high — something the Council of State was also in and out of it. Infrastructure, access to and price of power, difficulties in recruiting the necessary skills and the need for capital supply were other important keywords. In addition to Södra Cell's wish for a level playing field for green certificates as in Sweden, they all called for a comprehensive policy for future woodworking, where one looks at the use of tools together and looks a little into the future. They were even more than willing to contribute with their own experience and insight, if desired. Although our meeting was about the woodworking in Buskerud, I would assume that the same applies to other companies in other counties. As stated in the written interpellation, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, under the Red-Green Government, has highlighted a forward-looking industrial policy with a full and flexible toolbox for a fast-changing business. Future-oriented businesses mean new jobs in new industries, but also further development of traditional industries. Soria Moria II says that we will be active and innovative in industrial policy, create more green jobs and invest specifically in areas where we have special prerequisites for being good. At the same time, we need to pursue an active regional and regional policy to facilitate equivalent living conditions across the country and to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, which was also addressed by the Council of State. We are good at woodworking, and the conditions of forestry may have an impact on the pattern of housing in the future. The government is now working on two messages that may become important for the woodworking industry. The agricultural message is the one where forestry will have an important place. The ownership message may be the other. The Council of State was in the ownership message that we treated for some time ago. Now the state does not have significant holdings in woodworking, I am familiar with it, but it was an unisoned wish of all the companies present that the state also assesses the possibilities of entering capital in some form, preferably on a project-based basis. This was also strongly supported by the employees’ representatives. They want to bet on woodworking through active tripartite cooperation, where one could see the whole instrument in the context. I therefore have a small supplementary question to the Council of State about how he would view such a joint enquiry from the industry and the trade movement – with objectives, discussions and common interests with the Norwegian authorities and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e627	As I said in my main post, we are more than willing to spend money also on being involved in the development of the woodworking industry. I think the state is the most important co-player to contribute to technology development, innovation, new products and new production methods. As I mentioned, we have now invested heavily in an eco-technology system, where 2nd generation biofuels based on wood can have a central place. It is probably the main effort alongside the schemes in Innovation Norway, which exist within the research budgets, to contribute to innovation in the woodworking industry. If we're going to go into the owner's side as a state, it's probably a more open question. Now there are different ways to get into ownership. The Social Security Fund invests in a number of Norwegian companies, limited to a minority holding, thus contributing to capital on a commercial basis. We are about to come up with a statement of ownership, where state ownership will be reviewed. We should not exclude that we can also invest in new companies in the future, but it must be based on a commercial basis, as well as that we believe that a state ownership plays a special role or has a special value in addition to the private ownership that exists. It must definitely be that it must be based on one having faith in the future of that industry – and we do. But that doesn't mean that you need state ownership to succeed. There is also a lot of private capital and owners who contribute in this sector. I believe that the country plays a good role primarily as a partner in technology development, and in facilitating framework conditions, new products and new production methods, as well as opening up international markets to Norwegian industry. Then it's also that what we've done in force, almost can't be overestimated. The fact that new, long-term power contracts are now flowing in is incredibly positive for the powerful industry. The success of offering them competitive prices on a commercial basis is a fabulous advantage for Norwegian industry. Then we also need to work with the European Union in order to get arrangements to secure this industry through the period when Europe may go ahead before we get global CO2 prices, so that we do not phase out our own key industry in Norway or the rest of Europe in that transition phase until we get global, good climate systems that make CO2 prices worldwide. It won't help anyone that we get a carbon leakage out of Norway and out of Europe, and that we lose the opportunity to make these productions on clean, Norwegian hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e644	I would first of all like to thank Lise Christoffersen from Buskerud for putting this matter on the agenda. About 37 pst. Norway is made up of forests. It's very much. Only there we have one of the biggest assumptions to be able to operate woodworking. This is why Norway has long traditions of wood processing, especially in Buskerud, as Lise Christoffersen has mentioned. We have good access to raw materials, and we have Drammen port, which is one of Norway's largest and best ports. We also have good competence in woodworking. As a matter of fact, much has been done to enable us to become a leader in wood processing, and to become a growing industry. But we've seen for the last eight to ten years that we're no longer very competitive. It is not because there is a shortage of raw materials, or that competence has become too poor, but it is because all the political tools in the famous toolbox have not been used, that in Norway we have strange rules and strange taxes and taxes, and that we do not have good enough roads, which are important for this type of industry. We have also had another interpellation debate that was about ensuring that Norwegian industry receives a CO2 code in line with the EU, in view of the fact that strange CO2 costs could destroy competitiveness. In this debate, too, it is important to take account of the fact that strange taxes or rules give other countries' industries a competitive advantage. The same applies in this case concerning woodworking, whether it concerns a transitional period for the sale of electricity certificates on green certificates, in order to give industry the same economic rights as for example. our Swedish competitors have had less than eight years for conversion and upgrading. For the past six years, we have witnessed the closure of large corner stone holdings, including: due to poor framework conditions for Norwegian industry. We all remember the election campaign in 2005, where most politicians went to Grenland in Telemark and said that with their policies Norwegian Forest and other similar industries would not experience the same thing, at least not if it became a red-green majority. There was a majority government made up of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party after the 2005 elections, and there has been no reversal of developments. Only in Buskerud have several industries had to shut down or have been on the brink of bankruptcy. A few years ago, the Statistical Centre carried out some calculations on behalf of today's industry to find out which political parties had the best policy for the competitive industry. Now I don't exactly remember what the headline was, but it was at least the Progress Party had the best policy to save the competitive industry. The calculations concluded that the yield of the oil fund should be used for tax relief, the aim of which is to strengthen the competitive industry. After hearing Trond Giske, at least I have a slight, optimistic hope that it is better, but as he himself says, it is important that you have stable framework conditions. Last night on TV 2 The news channel yesterday, Sunday, we heard about the difference in compensation of employees in the global world we live in. For one industrial worker in Norway, 16 can be employed in China. I would assume that a Norwegian industrial worker is not so much more effective than a Chinese industrial worker – I don't know much about that – but at least not more effective than 16 Chinese workers. We have to take that over. A country as large as China, which has several thousand skilled engineers, more than Norway, is investing heavily in research and has ample access to raw materials such as forests. Nor should we forget which country in the world is behind the invention of paper. Paper in a modern sense, though unwritten, was found in excavations in China dated to the second century B.C.E. Toilet paper was used in China as early as the sixth century C.E. A traveling Arab then wrote about the strange custom of using toilet paper: ‘The Chinese are not so careful about cleanliness and do not wash with water after toilet visits, but they dry with paper.’ But back to the political: what can you do? Of course, I would like to draw up tax reliefs. We need to review the peculiar environmental requirements, which can lead to competitive disadvantages for Norwegian industry. We need to have much bigger travel bets. The roads in the Buskerud state, along with the Telemark state, are previously designated by the VG to be the country's most deadly roads. Well, that's a little bit of a statement. It's also something that business points to. We need to develop our ports, we need to invest more in research, and we need to stimulate foreign investors to want to invest in Norway. We need to remove the strange wealth tax, so that we get Norwegian investors and small savers, who also want to invest in Norway. The last thing I want to remember is that the government has flagged that they want to use copy paper, envelopes and printed matter made of return paper as far as possible. At the same time, the government was sitting on the fence as Norway’s only return factory broke out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e672	I will give praise to the interpellant, and in and of course also to the Minister of Economic Affairs for his answer. But it surprises me that no one has mentioned so far that the UN has actually designated 2011 as the year of the forest, and that not the Minister of Industry mentions it, may perhaps symbolize a slight lack of attitude towards it by the government. What we are discussing today is perhaps Norway's most complete value chain, which we have in the country. It is based on Norwegian raw materials and Norwegian processing and sells largely on the international export market. This gives you a good measure of nutritional conditions by looking at the development of the industry. There is no doubt that there is an industry that has had major challenges. There have been major structural changes, and it is also going to happen in the future. I very much agree with the Minister of Industry when he says that the market is a little done with. This was tried in the 1970s – by providing stock support – and thus prolonged the crisis by at least five years. So the market itself has to sort it out. But it does not prevent forests and timber in many ways from being a fantastic product, and it is going to open up great opportunities in the future. The Minister of Industry himself was concerned about this with climate. It's enough to mention that Norwegian forestry cleans up half of our emissions in terms of what you tie up, if we just wanted to count it. So I hope maybe there'll be a little bit more in the debate. Investments in industry are very long-term, and they are very capital-intensive, and there are large facilities. So the long-term conditions become absolutely central. The currency and competitive relationship and keeping order in our own economy may be the most important thing. There we've been able to hit our chests and say that the rule of action solves everything, and that we've done so well. But it's enough to remember that in his last speech, the governor stated that Norway's competitiveness was weakened by 20 p.m. in relation to countries with which we compete, only in the last five to six years. That's something that'll look pretty good on the optimism of an industry like the forest industry. Then I wonder a little about the interpellant's description of the future direction of industrial policy, because it is clear that we have all the biodiesels in mind – how they were handled, and how we actually put new opportunities in Norwegian timber processing on ice, by creating uncertainty as to what framework conditions were in force. We've heard that long-term power contracts are important. We all agree on that. But there were considerable expectations that it would be cheap, long-term electricity. We have all seen the fluctuations that have occurred in the power market in Middle Norway, and it is clear that the kind of uncertainty that Forest has had to live with, where at times the machines have had to be stopped due to a lack of power and high price, is quite devastating for at least wanting to bet further ahead. Green certificates are different. There is a clear discrimination against a producer like Södra Cell Tofte, and I have not heard that the Tofte has been included in green certificates for the time being. There has been a lot of evidence that you might say that production should be moved to Sweden, because the Swedes include the power produced by Tofte in green certificates. We see taxes and ownership. I'm a little startled when I hear that the state's ownership message is the only place we can discuss future ownership of the three-processing industry. Here we might have the most long-term Norwegian private ownership that has had major problems in recent years. We all know that through Norwegian Forest. But it also symbolizes ownership that has to pay property taxes and maybe property taxes on values that they haven't really had. It symbolizes the destructiveness of the property tax on that kind of ownership. There are many other assumptions Finally, I would also like to say that the basis is actually that the raw material resource is being exploited. The Minister of Economic Affairs should, in this way, have a far greater pressure on his colleague in the Ministry of Agriculture. The Swedes tried with the same concession rules that we had, a couple of years in the 1970s, I think, but found out that it was so expensive in terms of destroying all the activity in the primary source, that you had to go away from the concession rules and that kind of regulation quite clumsy. Transport I can't talk about, but it's also very important for a district industry that transports its raw materials from all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e691	The interpellation that we're dealing with here today is a very important interpellation. Forest is one of our renewable resources, and it is important that we use that resource in the best possible way in terms of value creation and an optimal environment. What we're seeing now is that we have more nutrients that are totally dependent on the forest. The one we've had the main weight here is the traditional woodworking industry. But we also have the woodworking industry, and we have the new bioenergy industry. What's the big challenge is that we need to get a holistic idea of how we're going to use the important renewable resource that the forest is to get a good economy in all three industries and thus also get a good economy in forestry. The thing about us, for example. can use bioenergy to conserve caves and clean forests, so that the forestry economy is better, is one of the possibilities that we have by focusing on the development of competence in the food chain. Since I am competent, I would like to refer to a report that came from Eastern research in 2009. That report highlights three key framework conditions for the forestry industry and for the industries building on forestry. One of the key framework conditions for Eastern research is competence. I will read out what Eastern research points to as an important framework of competence for this industry: maintaining relevant training at master level to maintain the provision of continuing education and training which allows for the enhancement of competence in their own working classes to facilitate research cooperation between operators in the woodworking industry and the national research community to cooperate with Finland and Sweden on education and research. This shows what I've been busy about, that we tend to forget about competence when we talk about the framework to develop a viable, forward-looking business structure in Norway. And this industry is absolutely no exception. Some of what I actually usually meet when I'm out traveling and talking to people in this industry, is that competence at all levels of the organisation is what it takes to ensure the future. The next step, after what has competence to do, and to the extent that what research has to do, and not least the research collaboration with the other Nordic countries, which is very advanced in research in woodworking and woodworking industries, is that we are in the process of creating good incentives for larger investments based on research. The new environmental technology programme on which the Minister of Industry was involved is just an example of us in the traditional industry, such as industry. the wood processing industry is part of, sees a need for some major investments in order to obtain pilot facilities on hams. The new environmental technology programme, which SV has been fighting for, is just an example of how we can highlight research from the office desk, from the laboratory and for industrial implementation. This gives us a holistic competence chain from research through training of operators and professionals at all levels to pilot plants, which may be one of the key long-term framework activities in this industry as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e722	I would also like to thank you for the interpellation. In addition to the international financial and food crisis, the climate crisis is the greatest. The climate crisis concerns the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere, and this is the carbon point. The capture and storage of CO2 in nature takes place through photosynthesis, where carbon dioxide is the building material – i.e. its greener plants, its greener forest, the larger carbon dioxide uptake. Wages and salaries in forestry are then the key for everything relating to wood. The photosynthesis is the engine in the carbon circuit, and we have to remember that if the tree rots or is used as a product that humans need, it becomes the same CO2 effect. Wood produces many products: plank, paper and cardboard, or various carbon molecules such as industrial raw materials for the plastics industry. And that's where the really big potential lies, that we can replace fossil carbon from oil and gas as raw material with carbon that comes from wood. Industrial feedstock based on such wood processed through biorefineries, e.g. What Borregaard stands for requires us to facilitate it. It requires that we have a combination of the fossil carbon tax and the stimulation of renewable carbon. This is necessary to ensure that what we know is socially necessary for the private economy. The challenge in the Norwegian industry, and especially in the woodworking industry, is to create long value chains that provide good payability for quality timber, skilled labour and capital. So there are issues about providing demanding, versatile jobs for well-qualified young people. The historical tool for this in the woodworking sector has been to invest in tripartite cooperation between private owners, to a large extent forest owners, trade unions and the state, thereby creating a social contract that provides profitability for all three parties. The three parties to this cooperation must agree on a strategy to develop stronger enterprises and the woodworking environment in Norway. Now when we talk about woodworking, it's the processing of the grinder, not the stick used for sawmills. The wood processing industry is now in a very difficult situation. There are few enterprises, but these are key enterprises. And why are they in such a demanding situation? Yes, because we have an extremely high cost level in Norway compared to our competitors. Other countries are very offensive to this sector, precisely because it concerns renewable raw materials that are a key to one of the main challenges I mentioned. Therefore, enlargement and government must now take strong steps to ensure that we can further develop this industry. We in Norway have good raw materials with a basis in the long fibre, late-growing spruce, we have very competent labour force, and we have a surplus of capital. What we're missing is a common answer to: What do we want with Norwegian woodworking? To put it another way: we lack a clear, offensive woodworking policy. There are three key areas that I want to point to as central in such a bet. The first is to strengthen research and development. It is very weak today in the university environments that carry out research at that level further. Here it has to be combined, so that we get a base that can further develop this in interaction with industry and other industries. Point 2: Energy prices must continue to be a priority for the Norwegian wood processing industry. That is to further develop power contracts with Statkraft, so that we can maintain it. In the case of electricity certificates, it must be carefully checked with the sale of electricity certificates. Paragraph 8(c) of the second paragraph of the Energy Certificate Act provides for the possibility to sell such electricity certificates in the event of major conversions of electricity production based on biofuels. The second is, who is going to pay for the electricity certificates? Food-coded wood processing should be exempted, as has been the case so far, in order to obtain predictable framework conditions. And finally, capital, investment aid, environmental technology through Innovation Norway, risk loans through an industrial bank and equity through a different strategic investment from the Inland State pension fund is absolutely necessary, so that we can interact with trade unions and private owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e754	The representative Jørund Rytman told us that the paper 2,000 years ago was developed in China. The representative of Rytman is quite right in that, and that was probably about the only representative that Rytman was right in his post. But with regard to the spread of paper from China to Europe, it is also an interesting story. The paper was then used to spread Islam, preferably westward. Then came the 1300s, and the print was invented in Europe. The rest of the story is known. I have grown up with my legs solidly planted in the Norwegian industry, especially in the Norwegian paper industry. I have grown up in a typical east country on Ringerijk, where the timber was picked up, floated down the rivercourse and used for energy and so far house construction and that part, but also, of course, further processed into paper. In fact, the log and the spruce were so important to the valley I grew up in, the Ådalen on Ringerike, that in the bundle it is examined in flower on the blue bottom. It tells a lot. It's easy to get nostalgic when you're dealing with the paper industry. I won't be. But it is a fact that this industry has been through a very tough transition in recent years. From my childhood, I remember very well the conversations around the dinner table with industrial parents who wondered if there were downhauls and layoffs, and the conversations often revolved around hoping that at best only one of them lost the job. Today we export about 90 pst. of all that is created by the 18.5 billion that the industry represents, mainly exports to Europe. Norwegian timber processing has been through a boneless conversion, and my claim is that Norwegian timber processing after the conversion is better equipped than ever to improve its position internationally in the paper market. Yes, the market has changed, but our industry has met that challenge in an offensive way. The world will need more paper in the future, it's sunny, maybe a different type of paper than the world needs today. The world will need environmentally friendly textiles. It's also obvious. The world will need clean, environmentally friendly energy. It's obvious. And the world will definitely need an environmentally friendly process industry and the environmental technology that is partly developed in a country like ours. I think the important thing about this interpellation debate is to focus on the challenges that are in the Norwegian timber processing industry today. I want to thank Lise Christoffersen for taking care of this after the meeting we were at in Hurum. We are all concerned that the 4,000 jobs that are in this sector today can continue to be important jobs in our counties and in our country. But I also want to give a challenge to the industry. It tells us that they have relatively large recruitment problems in parts of the industry. What we know is that throughout all the years of conversion it may have spread a fear and a bad reputation about this industry. I would say that this industry is very little known. What is the modern Norwegian process industry? Of course, the industry has the primary responsibility to position itself in the new global world. Our job is to provide framework conditions and instruments, and many here, not least the minister, have explained quite well what we have done, and what we do further. But I think that if the industry is going to be able to attract the most intrusive skills on both the trade union and engineering sides, it's going to have to grab a little bit of the reputation that the industry has for being a sector of decline, and vice versa and show that it's an emerging industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e772	All first: Thanks to the interpellant as seen the search light on this important issue. Norway is rich in natural resources. The hydropower has secured us an industrialization of Norway that made it possible to build a good welfare society. We must not forget this. The hydropower was used for industrial production, which gave society growth and well-being. The corresponding policy framework was also underpinned by the oil and gas sector. Natural resources were used for the best for the country, and we are going to continue this development. Natural resources shall benefit citizens through good public management and returns. Similarly, natural resources shall provide the basis for exploitation in Norway to future-oriented jobs exploiting resources for value creation and profitable enterprises. The future struggle for Norwegian mineral resources must also be supported by a system in which such resources benefit the country and value creation. We have started this work with, and the Labour Party will therefore pursue a holistic policy in this area as well. Therefore, it is necessary to have an active, holistic and forward-looking industrial policy based on the resources available to us. The primary purpose of Norwegian water power resources is to secure the country's secure and good energy supply. Secondly, it is important that these important and eternal resources are used for industrial development in Norway. The Labour Party will therefore continue to assess the needs of industry for competitive framework conditions, which are precisely motivating industrial investment in Norway as well. We want Norway to have the same good industrial framework conditions as elsewhere in Europe. Research, development and innovation are important commitments to further develop a knowledge-based, competitive business. Strengthening State participation in business-related research in order to improve the potential for building bridges for a future competitive business with a focus on environmental technology product, services and energy efficiency is all very important. We will work to increase the government's contribution towards business-related research, which will increase its contribution to the business community, and we will strengthen the tools – especially in the areas that strengthen innovation forces in Norwegian business. In Norway, many good ideas are developed through the established business community, the universities and the research community. The three-distribution industry is an important part of the history of the Norwegian industry and will also be an important part of our future. The focus on modern process industries and good long-term framework conditions are important elements to bring with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e789	I am also very pleased that Lise Christoffersen has addressed this important interpellation. It's like this, even though I'm from the Drammen and I see the sea, that we sometimes have the feeling that the industries that are a little bit away from the sea are not being mentioned in this room. In particular, forestry, which is now under focus, is receiving little attention. I think that's a pity, and it's good that we now have a round about this. A lot has been said. I just want to point out a couple of things. We've had more meetings with South Cell. Now I did not attend the last meeting, but we have been there several times both individually and together from the Buskerud bench. There have probably been similar meetings elsewhere, but in particular in the South one has been notified for many years that they have a competitive disadvantage because of the power policy and the lack of green certificates. What makes them look like they've dressed up and survived is that it's a very efficient company. They deliver good results. But when a subtractor from the lack of support green certificate will mean, they still have to contend with their Swedish sister companies. I hope that the Council of State and Government will now really facilitate that the woodworking industry too will be part of this scheme, which has been notified for a long time, which has been put at risk, which has been awaited, and which, hopefully, will soon be put in place. Another point that is important, and which, of course, should also be part of a debate on the forest, is the protection policy we are pursuing here in the country. I'm not going to go up the Trillemarka case again. There's a lot that could have been said, and it's been said before. However, the concept of ‘intervention-free natural areas’, which has increasingly penetrated environmental management, without clearly defining whether this is actually a misguided policy, has also been defined, for example. in Nord-Trøndelag, for many forest users, building a forest road has almost become an impossibility, because it has ended up within an INON concept. Getting the forest out to the market – transportation, which Gunnar Gundersen did not mention – is incredibly important. Then we talk about everything from forest roads to main roadways. It's absolutely crucial. Then, at least, there is a protection policy that places obstacles in order for us to be able to use the important natural resource as the forest is, as Per-Olaf Lundtigen described in a very good way in relation to photosynthesis and the processes that bind carbon, a policy in which we have to be able to see two things in the context: taking care of our nature while using nature in a sensible way. Norway has a lot of forest. We have neighbors who have even more forest. That's why it's important that we in this country be able to have a viable industry that actually takes away the raw material that forestry provides. Laila Gustavsen mentioned 4,000 jobs. That's what I'm assuming in the woodworking industry. It's clear that if you take the ring-fences, all those who run in the woods, all those who have forest as a supplement, all those who have forest as their main activity, we're talking here about a very large number of jobs, and we're talking about a very large proportion of Norway's area going to be cut in a good way. My hope is that this interpellation debate is the start of a turnaround operation where we now have the necessary framework conditions, where we see the forest in a larger context, and where we see the forest as a resource in Norway – which is not to stand there for decoration, but which is to be used, processed and renewed, and which is to be an important supporter of Norwegian industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e802	First, I would like to thank you for this interpellant debate and interpellant for raising this question. The wood processing industry is an important part of Norwegian business. Production from the wood processing industry is largely standardised and exported. The market for such industrial products is global. Industry competes on the world market and therefore depends on good framework conditions. The wood processing industry in Norway is also dependent on a steady supply of wood all year round. This in itself is an important framework condition for the development of the woodworking industry for the future. Even logging in Norwegian forests and good logistical solutions, on which many have been involved in this debate, is essential to ensure smooth access to wood in the wood processing industry. Access to energy is also important for the woodworking industry. The centre party is satisfied that this government has put in place a guarantee scheme with a framework of 20 billion. kr to support the power-intensive industry’s power purchase. The red-green government has also set up a subsidy scheme for industrial enterprises establishing joint purchasing consortia of power. In December 2010, long-term contracts were concluded between Statkraft and Norwegian industrial companies. It is very important for the further development of power-intensive industries, such as: Norwegian Forest. This has been important, and there have been many debates on this topic in the last year. I would also like to point out that the government has launched a series of measures to strengthen the power balance and to expand new power generation. This is of great importance to the power-intensive industry. There are also plans to further develop and strengthen the power grid. Agreement has been reached with Sweden on the establishment of a single electricity certificate market starting in 2012, which will lead to the development of new renewable energy, while Statnett plans to invest heavily in the network in the coming years. This will also mean a lot to this industry. In addition, research and development are important for the woodworking industry and the possibility of capital for further development, which has been discussed by many. Furthermore, follow-up of the environmental technology effort is of key importance here. We're also going to focus on this from the Center Party. The centre party is committed to maintaining and developing the wood processing industry in Norway. We believe that there is a high potential for further logging and value creation in Norwegian forests, particularly in the context of the development of renewable energy. Active forestry is an important climate action because of the forest’s binding of CO2 and must be valued economically and included as an instrument in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e822	I would like to start by saying thank you for the debate. It was very nice that so many people joined and took part in an important debate. And it was, as I thought, also a broad consensus that the woodworking industry is something we must also invest in in the future. There were some shades here and there. Tax reliefs and the term ‘swind’ are not exactly what is at the top of the lists we have received from the industry. There was more to the processing and strengthening of the instruments that are, possibly the possibility of new combinations of instruments. That's what the industry itself has put at the top. Competence is not forgotten – it's part of it. I mentioned so far that the industry itself says that it has problems with recruitment, which in turn is linked to educational opportunities, and what Laila Gustavsen was also involved in his article. We know that the industry is following this debate here today. I could imagine, just like that at the end of the day, reminding myself that the Prime Minister, after all, launched a six-point plan for the business life of the future at the last national government meeting in the Workers' Party – he was perhaps more the head of the Workers' Party than Prime Minister, but he is now who he is. All at the top of that list was knowledge, research and innovation. And, as he said, if there's one thing that's certain about the jobs that will exist in the future, it's that they're knowledge-based. This is not least true of our traditional industries. It's great that we see a significant growth in the number of new start-ups in new niches, but very many of them don't live very long. And we're also struggling with the commercialization of new products and ideas. So the three-processing industry has a lot of experience in just that. Simplification was point No. 2 in the Prime Minister's plan. An active industrial policy was item No. 3, and we've spent a lot of time discussing it here today. We have experience in setting strategies for other types of industries. We presented a yard package in connection with the financial crisis. We have a very comprehensive tool that can certainly be snorted together in many new ways. Ownership was also on the list, state ownership, private Norwegian and foreign ownership – together, and where it makes sense: one or the other. Infrastructure we haven't talked so much about here today. Of course, it comes as an extremely important element in the roll-out of the national transport plan and the needs of industry. For our part in Buskerud, there are joyous things going on in connection with Rv. 23, which is an important feeding year. So is it, of course, order in the economy. I remember that former Minister of Industry Finn Kristensen, in a lecture on the industrial policy of the future, gave the same emphasis as we have done here today: it is in the traditional industries we have a great, great advantage. That's what we can do, and it's based on something we have. I hope the Council of State will not be surprised if we take a trip with the trade movement and industry and knock on the door.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e843	My door is open to the interpellant, possibly a delegation from the trade union movement and from the woodworking industry in general. I think it's quite right, as the interpellant says, that the signals we give as politicians also contribute to creating attitudes in the industry. Although there are market analyses, profitability and opportunities for technology development that are crucial for investment and investment, it is also that we say that this is an industry we see positively, this is an industry we have faith in, and that it is important for Norway to use the raw materials we have for the benefit of our own business development, but also for, for example, our own business development. international, good climate solutions, important signals. So it's positive that this hall is concerned about the matter, and that there are so many positive messages to the industry from really many parties. Then it was requested that the state council had not mentioned the Forest's year from the pulpit – now it is done. I could say that for the government is every year the year of the forest, so we're going to follow this up in our policy. It's interesting to see how it was a few years ago, really, that a commodity-based economy kind of didn't have the future. Sweden was the ideal. Then it turns out that being a commodity-based – not a commodity exporter alone, but a commodity-based – is actually a strong position to have in a world that demands raw materials, where growth is great, and billions of people are to be brought up in living standards and ask for both energy, food and various commodities. So the fact that we can use the sustainable, renewable raw material that the forest is, in new ways in new generations, as this industry has a long tradition of doing, namely by transforming and finding the new products and the new forms of production, I think will help to make this industry strong in the future as well. We're going to be a co-player of what the interpellant described well in his summary of the major business framework conditions in general, but also of the specific framework conditions that this industry needs, for example. power contracts, technology development, environmental development and, in particular, the international framework conditions for emissions – the CO2 issue – so that we do not destroy our own industry in the inception of a global regime. This is not just up to the Norwegian government. The representative of Greece was a little impatient about the need to address the EU system, which is now going to put these things in place. We need to be a driving force to ensure that Norwegian interests are best taken care of, so that our industry also has a future within the EU regime of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e855	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e869	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, the rapporteur on the matter, who is currently not in the Chamber – he was here just now. What the president then asks is whether she has to give the floor to the next speaker, who is Thor Erik Forsberg. Thor Erik Forsberg, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e880	It seems that it has been more important for the Left and the Progressive Party to strike a wedge against organised working life than to ensure real participation in working life with its proposals. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to ensure participation in the labour market. That is why we are drivers of schemes to benefit workers. But often when it comes to perms and downboards, it's too late to get into the process. Co-determination is not only important during major shifts, but throughout the year. A well-organised working life is the prerequisite for this. I think it is striking that the right parties feel so strongly the need to underline in their attitude that it is voluntary to organise themselves. We all know that. But why not encourage more organisation, whether participation in the labour market is the most important thing? Through negotiations between the social partners, the Permitting Institute has developed into a mechanism that ensures the flexibility of businesses and the possibility of rapid changes when the market is fluctuating. Access to leave is intended to help employees and businesses in a difficult situation where the option will often be termination. The Labour Party – and the majority – therefore believe that the scheme saves jobs and provides a basis for normal operation. For enterprises, it is important that the competence of employees does not disappear by temporary reduction/stoppage. The majority believe that the proposed rules will be inappropriate and help to weaken the permitting institute. The conditions and rules of procedure are expressed today through the various main agreements between the social partners. For the approximately 600 000 employees in the private sector who work in a non-tariff enterprise, these provisions of the main agreements will guide through the case-law that has come up in this area. This concerns information on the relevant and procedural rules for the process. This information is easily accessible on the Web pages of the Labour Inspectorate and will help to create a good process in a difficult economic situation for the company. The main features of the main agreement between NHO and LO have been taken into account at the latest in a judgment of the Borgarting Lawyers' Court of 13 January 2011. ‘shall be regarded as reflecting general principles applicable as far as they are applicable also outside the scope of the agreement’. The Court of First Instance states that even if the principal contract cannot be required to be followed in detail outside its scope, a permit must be factually justified in the circumstances of the establishment, it must be used only as a temporary measure, the selection of those to be permitted, must be based on objective and verifiable criteria and the procedure must otherwise properly safeguard the interests of the staff member. For this very reason, it is serious that the Progress Party and several tone-indicating media spread the impression that the unorganised are lawless at the time of permacy. The majority believe that a well-organised working life is a prerequisite for ensuring employee participation in businesses and businesses. The State facilitates the organisation of both enterprises and employees through deduction schemes for membership. The majority want more companies to establish collective agreements so that we can build a stronger corporate democracy and make employers and employees more equal. If the right parties mean something by co-determination, why cut or remove the entire deduction for the organized ones? The result will be less co-determination. The proposal to legislate collective discussions with a so-called ad hoc committee is difficult to implement as long as the ad hoc committee is not authorised to negotiate on behalf of anyone. Collective discussion must be organised in such a way that trustees can negotiate on behalf of all employees. The right to negotiate lies in the various agreements. The majority also believe that the proposal to introduce individual discussions would be detrimental to the entire permitting institute, as it will create considerable additional work in a situation where companies need rapid access to leave. The majority also suggest that both the LO and the NHO at the hearing indicated that the legislativeisation of individual discussions could result in more redundancies and thus be a weakening of the framework conditions of enterprises. Government parties consider it natural that there should be a more detailed mention of the stipulations in the notified health and safety at work notice, as indicated by the Council of State. It would be interesting to explain here whether there is a basis for extending the rules of the Working Environment Act on information and discussion to establishments employing fewer than 50 workers. The majority are concerned with ensuring employee participation and good driving rules in the workplace. These include: This is why we are going to present a major communication on the working environment and working conditions. What is needed is a policy for a more equal working life, and in that work, the Workers' Party shall be at the forefront in order to further develop the good working life for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e907	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers, from the Progress Party and the Left, respectively. Then I'll say a few words about the matter. The right fully agrees that not only is there a need, but one of the basic pillars of Norwegian employment is the organisation of workers and the organisation of employers. We also end up with the appeal from politicians – that is what we can do in such cases – that more people should have a collective agreement. But at the same time, this case is just as much about recognising reality in Norway as it is. And it's a fact that very many workers are not trade-organized. Then the question is, how are we going to deal with it as politicians? Well, first of all, we have to deal with it as a fact. One can well assume that all these employees will join an organisation in a short time. But I think that – with all due respect – is a little realistic, even if they have to. I even want to encourage people to become members of social organisations. But we have to deal with it, and then we have to make sure that they also have proper laws and regulations. The right is, of course, concerned about listening to the social partners. It was just supposed to be missing. But we're busy listening to all the social partners. We are listening to the NHO, but we are also listening to it, for example. HSH, who has been very clear on its support for this proposal. We also listen to those who are not organized. There's a right in this country not to be organized, if you want. And anyway, it's hard for a bunch of people to go in and almost settle for why people don't choose to organize. We have to deal with that, and then, as politicians, we have to say that those who are not organized also have a right to legal protection in connection with permitations. I had honestly hoped and believed that the red-green parties would be part of it. I almost expected that. The red-green parties talk so often about workers' rights. Then I didn't think it was just workers who had organized themselves. When the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind a somewhat more moderate proposal than what emerged, among other things. in the original proposal from the Left, it is simply due to consideration of the practicalities of the individual workplace. We rely on the permitting mechanisms to be flexible. This means – as we also comment on in the comments – that we are afraid that if you have a statutory right to individual consultations between the employer and the employee of those who are unorganised, we will create an unnecessary red tape. But it must not be misunderstood in the sense of not informing or consulting. Rather, we suggest that the information needs should be clearly and clearly regulated, so that the non-organised also receive a protection. We also believe – as we clearly say in the comment – that it is natural for people to talk to employees at any place and at any place where they are going to carry out lay-offs, and if employees want to organise themselves, including those who are not then organized in a country-wide professional movement, it is natural to do so. It is also natural for the employer to take this into account. I'm quite surprised that the red-greens are so negative. What I'm even more surprised about is that instead of taking over the issue in this room, they're once again taking the opportunity to attack their thoughtful enemy on the right. Instead of assuming that in this case there are the red-green parties with the Workers' Party at the head who refuse to protect workers from the law, later on they are the ones who speak the workers' case. I believe that the right in this case represents a responsible alternative, an alternative that takes into account that there should be practical arrangements, and an alternative that has listened to the social partners, but which nevertheless falls strongly and clearly down to increasing protection for those who are not organised. Finally, I have to add a small consideration. I have seen that, on several occasions today, the Central Party has spoken warmly so that representatives of different parties will be able to vote on their own convictions in different matters. I have also seen the representative Pollestad from the Central Party across a double side in today's business saying that he strongly opposes this proposal and that he does not agree with his red-green colleagues. And then I expect the Center Party not to say one thing in the Stortinge hiking hall and to practice something completely different inside the main hall. So if the Central Party really believes that all representatives should vote at all times according to their own convictions, I look forward to voting with Pollestad today. Finally, I will address the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e933	The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e936	Today we are dealing in many ways with a big and important matter. If we look back, and look at it in a historical perspective, we know that permits for unorganized people are based on unregulated rules that were developed in lower courts from the 1930s. So it's been 90 years since these guidelines were issued without the introduction of legislation and legislation. It also means that there are 600,000 workers in the Norwegian community who go to work every single day, who do not have the same protection, the same rights, as those who work in a tariff company. I'm glad that lawyer Nicolay Skarning has taken this debate in public space. I'm glad we've been introduced to the problem, and we've also had our eyes open, so we can have this important debate in Stortinget today. But what makes me a little worried is the frail rhetoric that both the Workers' Party and the LO use in the public space. I noticed that the Vice-Chairman in LO had previously been out in today's business and said that this was no problem, it was just for everyone to sign up for the LO. Then it's interesting to look back at the Fafo report on Labour Organisations 2008/2009, on the degree of organisation, which shows that 14 pst. by LO's own members work in companies without a collective agreement and have the same unprotected rights. Ergo does not help to register in the LO. Nor is it the case that all employees can choose for themselves whether to work in a tariff-fixed company or in an enterprise without a tariff agreement. In my home country, Nord-Trøndelag, the vast majority of businesses are small, with eight to ten employees. Most of the enterprises are unorganised. You can't just choose to work in the municipality, or in Aker Verdal or Norwegian Forest. That's not the reality. It is interesting to note that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party write in the setting: ‘The majority consider that the proposed rules will be inappropriate and contribute to the weakening of the permitting institute.’ Let me then ask the following questions to the same parties: What is inappropriate about the legislative changes that the Progress Party is promoting, and in what way will it weaken the Permitting Institute that all employees have the same rules of procedure? In addition, the same batches write: ‘The majority want more companies to establish collective bargaining agreements so that we build a stronger corporate democracy and make employers and employees more equal’. I think this is an interesting statement, especially considering all the election campaigns in which the Labour Party is trying to make the right side of Norwegian policy its main opponents and telling all the voters that if they vote Right and Advance Party – and they take over the government offices – we will get an A team and a B team in the world of work. Who is it that is continuing the "A" and "B" teams in the labour market today with regard to the rules of leave? Yes, it's the Workers' Party. And then the Labour Party's representative from this pulpit is rhetorical, as a poor sales advertisement to get more members to the LO, trying to pull out the union quota. If it is the union quota alone that leads to corporate democracy, then we have few, or none, instruments to make it work – it is a very bad tool. I think it is in many ways a little bit daunted to include it in the debate. I note that today's proposal by the Advance Party will ensure that all those who do not have a collective agreement will have the same rules of the labour market as everyone else. I also record the consultation opinions from HSH, which believe that the proposals being promoted will ensure equal rights to information and participation, especially for those companies with less than 50 employees. Why does the Labour Party – and all the government parties – not want to guarantee them the same rights? I don't understand, and it would be interesting to get the answers from those parties during the debate. I see that my time is running out, and I will finally take up the proposal that the Progress Party has made. I will signal from the pulpit that it should be voted down, we will substantially support the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e966	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to, and has also given an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e969	In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is an important starting point for the Labour Environment Act to contain the most important rules in force in the world of work. Permitting is a central part of the legislation applicable to Norwegian working life. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this should be reflected in the Working Environment Act. The proposals we are voting on today have significant shortcomings, and I believe that there is room to go deeper into the issue before a conclusion is reached. I am therefore pleased that this issue is to be addressed in the notification about the working environment. We have registered LO's and NHO's opposition to the proposal, and I have full respect for your views on the matter. But I'm struggling a little bit to understand the weight that they're putting into their resistance, and the reason they're using. In an increasingly international working life, clarity is important and, as a general principle, rules which interfere with the rights of individual citizens should be governed by the law of the Grand Duchy. Such a use of the rule also applies as a general principle of EU law. This requires that the legislation be precise, clear and predictable. It's not like the opposition claims that the unorganized are lawless. This applies to illegal rules. They are able to find out, but it may not be that if there is a change in the legal situation, the Labour Inspectorate is dependent on updating their websites to create clarity around it. I would also like to point out that the permitting agency as one has today is basically working well. Rules proposed, including: on individual rights of discussion, I will regard as a theoretical innovation, which I fear will weaken the flexibility of Norwegian working life and could lead to increased use of redundancies. Discussions with ad hoc elected representatives, which are also proposed, will, in my view, be able to work in the same way. I look forward to the further work on this matter. We must ensure that permitting schemes respond to the needs of working life while being clear and easily accessible. It is the central one, and it has been notified by the Council of State in her letter to the Stortinget that she will come back in a big message later. Finally, to the representative of Røe Isaksen to vote on this: for me, the issue of the legalisation of permits is not a fundamental issue of value. I am voting in line with what the majority has agreed on. And there is a big difference between a representative from a government party voting in line with the government's wishes, and the fact that a representative from an opposition party is voting against his own conviction to secure a majority vote for a proposal from a majority government. So I support the setting that's right here, and we're going to work on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e986	The left has stood for many major, important social reforms throughout history, and many of them we have been together with the Labour Party about. The Left Party and the Labour Party have a common root and common starting point for giving workers a voice. There, the struggle has been for the welfare state to build on universal rights, for the welfare state to build on rights that all must have access to, and not just a few. The trade union plays an important role in Norwegian society. The Left agrees, and it's a matter that I'm also willing to fight for. The Working Environment Act has been an important driving book, even an important turnbook, for Norwegian employers through the time to be a good boss. The first time I got personnel responsibility, I also took a course in the Working Environment Act. The Working Environment Act is a very good manual for how to be a good manager and behave properly to your employees. In the fall, the Left visited 800 companies. Several of the companies took up with us that the rotary book has some holes. Many small companies do not have large trade unions to deal with, do not have a full-time trustee with whom things can be discussed, and do not have large organisations behind them. Some of the companies have only one or two or three employees, and many of the companies have to use the permit regulations because they operate in a very competitive everyday life. The small business owners, with small funds, will then have to find out how to do this properly, when they're going to make permits, when they're going to rent lawyers, and then go in and try to find the rotary book they can't find in the work environment law in this field. Because for some reason, the Left and the Working Party are jumping apart here. In the struggle for universal rights, in the struggle for labour rights, we suddenly reached a point where LO gained so much power over the Workers' Party that the universal was no longer so important. The basic universal rights – securing good managers, the driving book in the world of work – would suddenly have a hole. Because a trade union would have a monopoly on one of the rights of the labour force, the Workers' Party will no longer fight for what is about universal rights, which is about treating workers properly, which is about making the Working Environment Act a turnbook for good bosses. In this room, I've seen a lot of suggestions to prevent social dumping and to treat people badly, but here, LO says no, and then this isn't that important anymore. Then this grip is not so important anymore. Then the treatment of workers is not so important anymore. For the Left, it's important to have the values that we've had in the last 135 years, which are about fighting for some universal rights, that no one should have monopoly on any rights, whether or not they belong to a particular trade union. Because it hasn't been the trade unions' fight so far, it's been an important fight for a lot of lawyers, and I want to draw out Nicolay Skärning, who has helped us a lot in this job, because he saw how unorganized was drawn into the system. I have to say that I understand that the missing left is large in the committee, but I would nevertheless like to say to the committee that we have tabled a new proposal in the Chamber, and I hope that the committee will deal with the fact that we have tabled a new proposal that meets the issues for which we have been criticized. For example, Røe Isaksen, who has been busy elsewhere today, I understand that he is afraid of the red tape of the big businesses. That is why it is now within the scope of the proposal we have put forward in the Chamber that, in the case of large companies, exceptions should be made to this, because the right to debate is actually respected by other trustees. That's not what the Workers' Party says, either, that we should have adhoc trustees. It may elect a seafarer. In fact, we believe that employees should be allowed to be heard in that field. To put it that way: HSH agrees with this, the Federation agrees with this, the academics agree with this, the YS agrees with this, the Union agrees with this. It's just that LO doesn't agree, and then we don't get the government with us. I believe that we should have the union, the union is good, but it should not have a monopoly on workers' rights. With this, I would like to promote the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1009	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1012	The proposals for representatives propose to regulate the right to permit. The attitude of the Labour and Social Committee clearly shows that both the majority of the Committee and the minority of the Committee are concerned with informing and consulting employees before the launch of the permit. As I have stated in my letter to the Labour and Social Committee, I believe these considerations are well taken care of by the customary rules of law applicable at the time of leave. In order to justify the statutory right to leave, the representatives shall show, inter alia: that unorganised workers do not have the same rights as organised and that the unorganised workers are thus discriminated against and are not legally entitled to leave. This is an error ending. The case-law shows us that unorganized practices are not just in the case of permacy. This is made clear in a judgment of the Borgarting Lawyers' Court of January this year. The judgment summarises in a transparent manner the current legal situation and shows that unorganised workers have good legal protection in the event of a permit being issued. It can also be added that the Labour Inspectorate has good and accessible information about the individual’s rights on their websites. Nor can I agree with the claim that non-organised workers are discriminated against by organised workers negotiating their own schemes. Employers’ and employers’ organisations play an important role in promoting good and safe working conditions and thus contribute to a well-functioning working life. A fundamental instrument for organisations is the conclusion of collective bargaining agreements. In this context, it is normal for collective bargaining agreements to establish their own adapted arrangements that regulate aspects of employment which legislation does not. This is, of course, a consequence of the freedom of negotiation, and it still has to be. Although there are several examples of tariff arrangements having been the precursors of legislation, it may not be automatic for systems resulting from tariff agreements to be regulated. Alternatively, de facto organisations, not the Stortinget, would have governed the work environment legislation. Moreover, there is a different need for permitting in different parts of the world of work. 60 pst. of the persons on leave today have a background from the industries of construction, construction and industry. Tariff regulation also helps the parties to discuss the specific needs themselves and to assess whether the conditions for the permit have been met. In this way, the specific challenges of individual industries are addressed. I agree that good processes and procedures in connection with changes in crew needs are important. In this context, it is important that all workers have a safe framework, regardless of whether they are organised or not. As I started with, in such a context, there is little doubt that the customary rules provide good protection for the unorganised workers. As I see it, there is not enough ground here to support the proposals of representatives on changes to the Working Environment Act. I believe, however, that there may be reason to mention the issue of the legal regulation of the permitting agency in the forthcoming Storting Communication on working conditions, the working environment and safety, not least in order to identify the need for good processes in all types of businesses and to see whether there are other issues, as I mentioned in the reply to the Storting, concerning the obligation to discuss jobs with less than 50 employees, where one can have a different tool for information related to permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1041	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1044	I want some clarification from the Council of State, because in her contribution she says that it works quite well as it is today. At the same time, at the end of her speech to the Committee, she referred to her letter, which says she would look at the legislation in connection with the submission of changes to the Working Environment Act. This is precisely what the Progress Party has proposed, namely amendments, and if the Council of State also proposes amendments, it is a legislative act. So the question should be quite simple: is the Council of State for or against the law of permacy? In that case, what changes are to be made to make things better for those who have been permitted? Here, the Council of State speaks with two tongues and uses the term ‘negotiating’, etc. Do you have to legislate for that discussion, or do you just have to evaluate it? What does she put in the term "appraisers"? Is it that she takes up a note from the table, reads it and puts it in the drawer afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1051	I believe it is reasonably clear from my reply that I believe that there is no need for a law to be enforced today. I have justified that, but I can repeat it: you have clear rights today, you have those that are not organized, and you have got that through a practice of customary law. What I have said is that I want to take a closer look at, and what I am experiencing is the challenge: Do we have a good enough device to be sure that the unorganised are informed and get the necessary discussions with the employer they need to be sure that the matter is well informed to them? Some of the things we want to look at in this context are related to the obligation to discuss and this with more than 50 employees and the limit that is there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1058	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for putting in a more moderate tone, a slightly more constructive tone than others from the party. Yes, there is a case-law in this area. However, it is also true that several workers’ and employers’ organisations believe that today’s legislation is deficient. I think that is something that we politicians have to deal with, regardless of whether there is a case-law in this area. Many workers and employers believe that the current protection of non-tariff-organised workers is inadequate. So how does the Council of State respond to those who are aware that there is a case law today, but think it is not good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1065	I think the quote that was given here earlier in the case of Civilizing Lawyers' Rights, says very clearly that what you have from the collective agreement, also applies to this group, with some adjustments. It will always be because there are — and there is some of the point — contractual rights related to the process. There's no doubt about it. It is settled by the court – I have to take care of it a little, because the Red Isaac still says that I am more a lawyer than the Council of State, but if you have challenged me on the law, you must also be prepared for it – that you are very clear that it is a matter of fact. All the clear requirements related to this are set out in case law and apply to this group. Yes, we had a peak in the lay-offs in Norway around 2009, and there was no big flow, at least not to the Ministry of Labour, linked to the fact that this was a big problem. Then I want to say that those who believe that this problem will be solved immediately when you get this into the Working Environment Act, don't know exactly what we can regulate, because it's a great deal of judgement relating to those provisions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1074	It's one thing I honestly don't understand, because now it sounds like all the rights that union members have, all those who are not union members are going to have, so you don't have to legislate for all this. What, then, is the problem of lawmaking? Why can't it be in the working environment agreement? As I pointed out, the work environment agreement is also an important turnbook for Norwegian managers in order to be good managers. Why is it important to exempt this particular part, which has been in Norwegian working life for 90 years? Why is it very important to prevent those who cannot afford to hire a lawyer, those who cannot afford to collect all those resources in the weakest moment of life, namely when they lose their job, from being covered by the law? Why is it so dangerous?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1083	What is clearly delineated from case-law is the need for factuality, the need for interim measures, the need to be verifiable and to be carried out in a sound manner. These are perfectly clear rules that apply to everyone. But, as the representative also knows, everything related to permitting has grown over time. The contract agency is very adapted to the sectors where there is a particular use of permits. The point is that there is legislation that takes care of the interests of these people. So the question is, should it be that in some areas, when a contract works have been negotiated, should this be more or less covered by the Working Environment Act? I think in some areas it has to. If it was about important basic rights relating to employment and dismissal, we have it covered by the Working Environment Act. Then it'll be important to get this in. But that's not what this is about. This is a temporary arrangement, a suspension from the employment contract. When you have clear rules already, I don't see that it'll be lucky to have automatic links to... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1090	Getting a permit means losing a job. That means you're at the weakest in all your time as an employee. I do not understand why it is dangerous or directly harmful to the permitting system that you get a right to discuss and get this into the Working Environment Act. My question is: does the Council of State agree, as the majority of them say in their comments, that it would harm the regulation of the permit to have a statutory act on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1095	Whether or not this would damage the regulation of the permit, I think it is a little bit about which areas to regulate. First of all, I don't want to stress that it necessarily hurts the permitting agency. But I think what's very worrying here is that you create a working environment where you create the impression that when the social partners have negotiated some agreements – very adapted to individual things in the world of work – it's automatically that it should also be included in the Working Environment Act. I think it is also very unfortunate to create the impression that you get a turnbook for employers, which will make it very easy for those who are defined as the weak workers. It does not necessarily make it easier for employees to be informed in the law that the leave should be factually justified, temporary, etc. These are difficult rules that are being practised today, whether or not they are laid down in the Labour Environment Act. I think you'll simplify a little bit if you think that this will solve all of the questions related to compliance with the rules on permitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1100	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1105	I just need to link some comments to the post from the representative Røe Isaksen from the Right and his tribute to the trade unions. It may be that it was because the representative was interrupted in the middle of a meal, and that the blood sugar was a little high, but it is not often we hear the kind of tribute of the trade unions from the Right. This is quite strange, because it is somewhat contradictory to all the other proposals of the Right that have come to this session – on the rotational arrangements, temporaryity in positions, the role of trade unions and the role of trade unions in tripartite cooperation. Then you ask from the Progress Party and the Right side if the Right side is the Workers' Party's thought enemy. No, it's not a thoughtful enemy. It is a very real enemy of work environment issues. It's not imaginary, it's very real.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1111	First of all, I want to check whether I heard correctly, when I heard the representative Pollestad in the pulpit, because he thought that the rules we are proposing here today are not good enough and do not prove to be working well enough. What about the rules that are not good enough and that will not work well enough? He also refers to EU legislation. That, I think, is an interesting approach – that the Central Party is almost protecting itself behind EU legislation to make sensible, wise and national legislative changes. In that case, there is a new policy from the Central Party. If I heard correctly about the EU, I wonder what proposals we have made that might be contrary to EU legislation. I can't quite imagine it. Then I'm also a little happy that the Council of State, which is somewhere in the Chamber, clarifies that if we legislate this, it won't hurt and weaken the commissioning institute, as the Labour Party's chief spokesman said it would. I think that's a useful and straightforward clarification. I also hope that the Workers' Party in retrospect is so honest with itself and its political opponents that they use one and the same rhetoric – that they agree with themselves on what is going on in this area. Then I have still not got any clarity on the questions I asked in my main post. I expect that I will not get any answers to them either. But when one goes so high and says from the speaker's chair and in the position that it will weaken the permitting institute and that it will lead to a worse corporate democracy, I think with respect to report that one should be clearer and give clear answers back and clarify what is inappropriate about the proposals we are now promoting, and in what way it will weaken the permitting institute. Or was it just a bunch of people you used from this pulpit, because you've got it on your argument list from some people you're in contact with in LO? I therefore think it was a useful clarification from the Council of State. But it would have been very good to challenge the Workers' Party on it, so that at least you don't just throw away such claims without at least being able to account for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1120	The president gets to forgive a little indebtedness, but I kept saying that the representative Henriksen should be happy that I was interrupted in the middle of the meal, because if I had still, I think the blood sugar would be so high that I had turned on even more! Because it doesn't have anything to say at all how many times the Right says we want an organized working life in Norway. I would like to repeat what both Erna Solberg, signed and several others have said, namely that it is an advantage and a strength for Norwegian working life that we have an organized working life. But then the big difference is that where the Workers' Party listens with one ear to the LO and has a big plug in the other, then the Right is able to listen to several parts of the Norwegian working life. We listen to the organisations, the employee organisations. We also listen to those who are unorganized. And not least, we are also able to listen to ordinary workers who are professionally organized locally. This tournament case is a very good example of that. When Jan Davidsen was in my home state, Telemark, during the election campaign last, he was met by quite irritated local trust leaders in the Trade Union. They were annoyed because the trade union had centrally set their feet down for a local experiment with so-called alternative turns. I'm actually a little bit concerned that you should also listen to local trustees, in the trade union community locally in Telemark, and not just plug your ear full and not listen when they talk, and just have the ear pointed at the Youngstorget and the union stops.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1127	I would like to make a few comments on the contribution by the representative Eriksson of the Progress Party. I believe that there is considerable uncertainty about the proposals that have been put forward. I experience, among other things, that they do not respond to the issue raised by the Council of State, namely how to lay down the rules of law in order to meet the diversity of Norwegian working life. I can draw up a specific issue that I believe is relevant in this. It is the question of whether, in the event of a legislative act, there should be a question of formal rules or absolute rules of application, i.e.: breaches of the rules result in the termination of the contract. These are relevant questions that I believe there is reason to go deeper into. I also found, infrequently, support for this in EU law. It is primarily the legislative process, and in Norwegian law it is an important principle that there should be clarity about rules that mean interference with people's legal status. In this way, the reference to EU law was used as a defence for a legislative act. Then I'm not going to hide that the Center Party has a significant sense of the proposal, and we want to work on it unrelentingly. And we look forward to coming back with a broader mention of this in connection with the announced paper on the working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1138	From the bourgeois parties, it has been mentioned how demanding it can be for the unorganised, with no rights and no influence. Yes, that is actually the case, but this does not apply only to permitting. This applies throughout the year, to the fact that many of the unorganized people feel that there is no influence over their own business. You have to get more involved than just in the big business conversion processes. The Government Parties have written that the proposal to introduce individual discussions may be ‘to the detriment of the whole of the Permitting Institute’, and it is among the proposals that include, inter alia, the following: has been in the process of collective discussion, in which there is no confidence choice with which to discuss. And it's about individual discussion. One might imagine that a larger enterprise must engage in individual discussions with each employee during a time when it has a very short time to clarify. We in the majority want many more to be organized. The involvement of employers and employees depends on the responsibility of both employers and employees to organise themselves so that they can have two more equivalent parties. For a short time, when we introduced, among other things, the annual obligation to discuss temporary employment was opposed by the civil parties and considered that this would be a bureaucratic arrangement for the enterprises. But some of those who are most vulnerable in the workplace today are especially those who have precarious employment, whether you are a temporary worker or have other precarious employment. That is why I very much welcome the next case, the interpellation debate that really concerns some of the most vulnerable in Norwegian working life, and what offensive measures the right side will come with to ensure that even in those parts of the working life where you are not well organized, you have opportunities for decent income development and safe and tidy working conditions. I am afraid that I will be disappointed after that debate, but look forward to it with hope that the right side can be more offensive to ensure participation in the labour market, even where it is not today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1147	I have witnessed a debate in which there has been a slightly different argument beyond the day – from the beginning of the remarks where we say that our proposal will ‘injure’ the entire regulation of leave, to say that there is much worse with temporary employment than with permits. I mean what I said in the reply to the Council of State, that being permitted might be one of the most vulnerable moments you have as an employee. You're actually losing your job. It's an area that I think it's important to get regulated. That is why the Left has proposed this. In particular, I would urge the members of the Committee to read the proposal that is actually on the table, because the attacks that are now coming from the Labour Party do not fit in with the proposal we have put forward, where we have taken into account that this could be a major bureaucracy in large companies. But you also have to have a sense of reality about the vast majority of companies in Norway, which are very small, with one, two, and three employees. For those companies, it is important that employees also have their rights, and in those cases, the draft legal regulations we have presented here can be done. It will provide security for both large and small enterprises, it will ensure that there is no bureaucratic regime. And then for temporary employment. There's the public that's the really bad one. In the university and higher education sectors, for example, there is hardly any person who has not been in temporary jobs for 10–15 years. So here's the public thing that has to tighten up, not the big ugly wolf out in business. Because it's in public there's a lot of part time, and it's in public there's a lot of temporary employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1158	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3128]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1176	This interpellation was intended before the so-called Adecco case, and from the point of view of others – and in my opinion as crazy – examples of social dumping than what is now revealed by age institutions in Oslo and several other municipalities. However, the Adecco case has highlighted the activities of rental agencies in Norway, as a consequence of privatisation, commercialisation and outsourcing of public services. Labour renting has unfortunately become a big business not only in Norway but throughout the Western world. For a long time, this activity was a foreign element in Norwegian working life. With new forms of organisation in the labour market, enlargement of the EU and the EEA, and with a large common labour market, high unemployment and economic and social expenditure, this has combined to make the labour force a commodity. I am not surprised that Polish and Lithuanian workers look at Norway when they do not get work in their own country, knowing that after a few months of work in Norway they can earn a good annual salary on their own scale. And we welcome them. We need labour to solve the problems in the construction industry, in the workshop industry, in the fishing industry, in the hotel and restaurant industries and in the health and care sector. But they're going to have Norwegian pay and work conditions. They shall comply with Norwegian working environment regulations, they shall pay taxes and charges in Norway, and they shall enjoy the same social rights as Norwegian workers. We do not accept the exchange of Norwegian labour with non-resident workers who literally work their lives and health off at Norwegian workplaces without any social rights, and at much lower wages than is usual in Norwegian working life. That is why the fight against social dumping is a struggle for the acquired rights of Norwegian workers, rights that most of us take as a matter of course, but as we now see in the hands of greedy employers who see no limits in the pursuit of increased profits. Nor does serious crime and trafficking in human beings appear to be such a limit, much less tax evasion and breach of Norwegian environmental legislation. With the extent to which the rental business has gradually gained, I hardly exaggerate when I claim that social dumping is now the biggest challenge we have in Norwegian working life. The provision of labour is done in many ways. Let me immediately stress that there are serious rental companies with organised workers who comply with Norwegian legal provisions and who have normal Norwegian pay and working conditions. Quite rightly, the Adecco case has cracked in that picture too, but the problem is — and perhaps Adecco itself is the proof of it — that serious companies are losing jobs to the unprofessional, precisely because this is about hiring out labour. At that time, the cost of labour, i.e. the wage and working conditions of workers, becomes a competitive element – yes, indeed, the only element of competition. Let me give you a couple of examples of what's going on. First, an example from the workshop industry. Norwegian interests establish a company in Lithuania, whose intention is to hire labour to Norwegian companies in the construction industry. The company draws workers from Romania who by definition are employed by the Lithuanian company before they are rented out to Norwegian companies. All billing is from Lithuania, pay is made in Romania. There is no tax, VAT or other charges paid anywhere. There are no social schemes, not holiday pay, much less pension schemes. If a Romanian worker opens up as much as possible his own pay and employment relationships, he/she will be sent home with a future occupational ban in Norway. But no complaints, for 40–45 kroner per hour net is good payment in Romania. The Norwegian company that hires is making money on it, and the real earners are the people who hire out labour in Lithuania. Let's assume that the company hires 100 workers to Norwegian companies all year round. In this case, the owner would easily be left with a net profit of between 15 and 20 million. kr annually. Another example is from a construction site in the Tønsberg area, where a larger Norwegian construction company builds a school. The company has rented a Polish company into sub-entreprises. The employee's employment contracts say that they do not receive compensation for the work until the work is completed, and then on account – from Poland! Again: no tax, no employer’s tax, no holiday pay and no social rights in Norway. The point is that the wages and salaries of employees cannot be verified. There are hardly any hour lists here, and to the extent that they exist, they might as well be fictitious. The last case I mentioned is taken from a public area, where the company is therefore obliged to comply with Norwegian tariff rules, and where joint and several liability can also be claimed. But it requires that someone raise claims against the main contractor, who, of course, lives in a secure assurance that that doesn't happen. For this reason, it is so important that trade unions are given access to all matters relating to workers at work, including subcontracting companies, and that they are given collective redress rights. No one can compete with this, and I'm amazed that the NHO, who itself says they're engaged in social dumping, doesn't stand on the side of the trade union movement and grab hold of them by its own members who run this project, and who actually help undermine the competitive conditions of serious Norwegian companies. While the NHO professional organisations are increasingly experiencing the loss of jobs by member companies as a result of these activities, we see that the NHO centrally opposes this and actively opposes important measures to bring this obscurity to life – such as public disclosure, solidarity and regional protection. As I understand it, there are now 40,000 NUF companies in Norway, i.e. Norwegian registered foreign companies. The examples I referred to have origins in these companies. While we demand $100,000 in equity when setting up an AS here to land, a separate NUF company can be established in London for the modest effort of one pound. I guess that's close to $9 after today's pound price. The NUF companies have their Norwegian agents advertising the foreign registration of such companies with the question: Are you tired of Norwegian taxes and taxes, or...? I have never realized that we need to find ourselves with companies that live on the side of Norwegian legislation and that do not correspond to taxes and taxes to Norway, whether for companies or employees – although it may often be difficult to find who works for whom, in such companies, because the employees are actually sole proprietorships. I have noticed that in its Action Plan against Economic Crime, the government has commissioned the Tax Administration to develop its own audit directives for up to three years for small AS and NUF companies when the actual audit obligation is lifted for companies with a turnover of less than 5 million. kr. In addition, the tax rate will intensify its control of this type of company, and control helps, we know that. I would like to add: coordinated control of joint efforts by labour regulators, tax authorities and the police. Increased efforts also require increased resources, and we cannot escape strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, the Tax Agency and the police in combating all forms of social dumping. However, for the country, there is a question of expenditure on the acquisition of income, where society receives ten times more for increased control efforts. We have to get rid of the NUFs. We don't need them. That is why we must remove them from the market. In public business – and then I expect our largest state company – this should be a simple matter. The rules governing public acquisitions give the opportunity to close unincorporated companies out of tendering procedures. In addition, the purchaser is obliged to make sure that those who are to carry out the tasks, including any subcontractors, comply with Norwegian labour rules. The Adecco case has fully demonstrated that the public – including state, county and local authorities – does not take its supervisory responsibilities seriously. We have to make sure they do that. All public-owned companies have ethical rules on social responsibility, but they don't always comply with them. Sometimes we also see that ethics has its clear limitations. In fact, it is not forbidden to pay people badly here in the country, but large Norwegian enterprises – at least those owned by the country – should also have a specific responsibility for the pay and employment of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1210	The representative Gullvåg is at the heart of some of the major challenges we face in the world of work. Through a number of media redundancies and concrete examples, we have seen workers get injured when companies and municipalities use rental companies or temporary employment agencies that do not comply with Norwegian law. As Mr Gullvåg knows, we have taken many good steps in good dialogue with the social partners to curb social dumping. But we have to recognise that the challenges in this area are probably bigger than we've thought before. Economic crisis forces people to seek work outside their own borders, and poverty makes them willing to accept employment and wages far below what we can accept in Norway. At the same time, we see that temporary employment agencies and employers are willing to use labour for their own financial gain. Thus, the question of Gullvåg is extremely central and important. First, I would like to make a clarification: the temporary employment offices have a role to play in ensuring sufficient labour, and we have long-standing traditions of labour immigration from other countries. Unfortunately, it is quite right, as the representative points out, that foreign workers who come here temporarily and are employed by a non-resident employer are particularly vulnerable to social dumping. There are several reasons for this, in addition to those I have already had. These are workers who do not make high demands on their employers, because the outcome may be repatriation. At the same time, they don't know what kind of conditions apply and what rights they have. Language problems are one of the reasons for this. We have a special obligation to help precisely these workers. Unfortunately, recent disclosures show that workers who carry out public contracts are not always paid as they should or have legal working hours. In the Labour Policy Council on 1 March, I was agreed to set up a joint working group to look at public sector insecurity and social dumping. The working group will contribute both to the evaluation of the situation and to finding good measures that we can use in the future. I see, for example: to me that we can learn a lot from those who already have good control and risk systems in their organisations, and that this is a golden opportunity to identify the situation in order to find good solutions for the future. Measures related to the temporary agency industry will be an important theme for the group. The representative of Gullvåg indicates that many demand increased control efforts. In the light of recent revelations, the Labour Inspectorate has taken rapid steps to step up the supervisory efforts towards labour hiring and hiring establishments, using the experience gained in the supervision of other sectors affected by social dumping. Over the last few years, the Labour Inspectorate has been given a boost in resources and competences, and they are well equipped to meet these challenges. The labour inspectorate shall have a control function. However, subsequent verifications will never be sufficient if the legislation is not in place and if the persons responsible at all stages do not comply with their obligations under that legislation. The Government introduced rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts in 2008. The regulation imposes specific conditions of pay and work when public procurement of services and supply contracts is made and will also apply in the case of rental or other purchases of services from rental enterprises. The rules shall ensure that employees carrying out their duties, pay and working conditions in line with the applicable collective agreements, or otherwise, are subject to normal conditions. I am nevertheless afraid that the follow-up from the public has not been good enough. I have an assessment of whether the Labour Inspectorate will be given supervisory responsibility to the municipalities in this area. The Government has been consulted on proposals to facilitate compliance with the obligations under the rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts. In particular, we have proposed to give the Labour Inspectorate a guidance role on the pay and working conditions to be applied. I think it'll make it easier for public authorities to make demands on the clients they're engaging. All departments are now reviewing the follow-up to the regulation under their own responsibility. I have had a dialogue with the Minister of Local Affairs, and we agree that these issues must also be addressed in the municipal sector. The KS is working to identify and discuss the scope and challenges of hiring and outsourcing of assignments and the responsibility of municipalities to ensure good pay and working conditions in the event of outsourcing of assignments. Before the summer, I want to send a big message about working conditions and the working environment. The Communication will have a comprehensive perspective on the challenges facing us in the world of work and will guide the challenges facing the future. Action against unprofessionalism and social dumping becomes an important theme of the Communication. The public service scheme, to which the representative of Gullvåg refers, will also be mentioned in the notification. For the government, the fight against social dumping has been a central part of our work for a number of years. Social dumping is not only serious for the employees concerned, but also because it destroys the framework conditions for serious enterprises, whether Norwegian or foreign. In this way, measures and control of pay and working conditions cannot be seen in isolation. A lot of work is done on responsibilities other than mine that are also important to counteract unwanted developments in Norwegian employment and business. In this context, I would like to highlight in particular the government's action plan on economic crime recently launched, to be implemented over a three-year period. The action plan includes, inter alia: tax crime measures. A threat assessment by Ecocrime ranks tax and tax crime as the economic crime form that poses the greatest risk to society and its citizens. The serious part of business is experiencing serious difficulties in competing with those who do not pay taxes and taxes. An ever-increasing tax evasion may in the long term lead to a threat to the Norwegian labour market model. So we're facing major challenges here. If we are to succeed, we need to cooperate well with the parties and work out good actions like the industry programmes, with which we are now working. The fight against social dumping is ongoing work that requires the efforts of all actors. I have previously stated that social dumping is, to a very large extent, a question of morality. It's about HMS, human creatures, families, exploitation and social desperation. The representative of Gullvåg directly asks what we're going to do in the continuation to meet the problems. My answer is that the government continues the fight along several tracks. We will press for each public buyer and private operator to feel their moral and legal responsibility, while at the same time providing good measures and control mechanisms to defeat those who make or break the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1244	I am pleased that the Council of State has as much focus as she has on the problem that we are debating today. I am very pleased that she clearly signals that social dumping is going to be a major issue in the review of the Working Environment Act, which is now to take place. However, I am afraid that we also need to have a look beyond the borders of the country if we are to be able to deal with this issue in the longer term. We need international rules in the fight against social dumping because the problem is international. The EU has legislation that aims in many ways to prevent us from getting such results as those we now experience in Norwegian working life, but they also have legislation that goes in the opposite direction. I have registered that ESA has sued the Norwegian authorities on its own initiative because they believe that our procurement rules are contrary to EU law in important areas, and that this has been opposed by Norway. I would ask the Council of States to continue to challenge EU law here, because there is a contradiction between the ILO 94 with the requirement of decent work and EU law in essential areas. I am pleased that the Norwegian Government has so far stood on the code we have. It is a remarkable fact in itself that the reason why ESA is suing in this area is, in fact, that there are rules for public acquisitions, which are not in the private sector. Nevertheless, ESA requires that the Norwegian public sector be equated with the private sector in this way. I would like the Council of State to comment on exactly this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1256	It is absolutely essential that the public should set a good example. That's why I've also said that it's just as rough when you reveal that there's social dumping in the public sector as in the private sector. One of the most important tools we have in terms of public procurement is, as the representative of Gullvåg has in mind, our regulation relating to public procurement. We are also, as the representative of Gullvåg points out, in a process, to say so, with ESA attached to this Norwegian regulation. I can assure the representative that it is very important for this government that Norway can continue to have this regulation that ensures that the public takes the lead with a good example. I myself have been in meetings with ESA about this, and will continue to follow it up. I believe that we also have a good legal basis to argue well for the view we have. Among other things, Norway is now the country that has this regulation while we have ratified ILO 94. This issue, the conflict between ILO 94 and, where appropriate, EU legislation, has not been tried by any court. I believe that we have good reasoning attached to this. We also cooperate with other EU countries that are in the same situation. There are eight to nine countries which have both of these codes and which may be in the same situation as Norway. I have good faith that we're going to make it, and we're not going to give in to this. This is a basic legislation for Norway. So the representative of Gullvåg can trust that the government won't give up until we possibly get to try this out in court. That would be the EFTA Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1265	First, thank you to the interpellant for taking up a very important and very topical theme. As the interpellant said, there's not anything that's been up to date in the last few days, but it's a persistent problem. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answers she gave to the matter. Temporary employment and renting have been completely reduced in size, distribution and turnover in Norway in recent years. In 2010, some 2000 enterprises were renting labour. More than 100000 persons are associated with the manning industry. Just that – this explosive increase in the scope – makes us think it is absolutely right to put an extra spotlight on the industry. We also know, and we've seen a lot of examples of that in recent years, that the industry has a lot of unprofessional elements. Adecco has been embossing the debate for the past few weeks, but is just the top of the iceberg. This is something we need to get to the bottom of, and we need to put in place new measures to bring it back to life. Labour hiring and hiring are fully legal. The companies involved have come to stay in Norway. But with growth in this industry, growth also comes in social dumping. Of course, private and public businesses need temporary workers. But when that is said, I do not think that the law-abiding vicarbranch should become too dominant in the Norwegian labour market either. In the absence of permanent labour, leave, sick leave and other absences, hiring of labour must be the first to be used. Temporary workers are not to be used instead of permanent staff. Permanent employment shall be the usual form of employment in the Norwegian working life. The conditions of use of the lease must remain the same as for temporary employment. The employment protection shall not be circumvented by the use of hired labour. The non-statutory actors in the temporary and rental industries exploit the labour force, cheat on taxes and taxes, and destroy the law-abiding part of the business. This means that workers are divided into classes A and B: permanent employees are the A team, while temporary workers are the B team which can be used roughly. Of course, actors who operate illegally or on the edge of the law must be investigated and judged. Some of the conditions that have recently been discovered in Norway are reminiscent of slave labor and trafficking in human beings. It's a lot more than bad pay. It is poor HMS, dangerous working conditions, illegal working days, health problems, exclusion, poor sanitary conditions and poor housing conditions. The circumvention of laws and rules by international rental companies to make more money is not always a direct crime. I recently heard about an example in Sweden where a Polish rental company rented out construction workers for a construction project. On the paper everything looked fine. The contracts included a fee of Swedish kroner of 166 per hour. However, when the Swedish construction workers' union went closer to the seams, it turned out that the Polish workers were charged a social security fee of 21,5 p.m., so the gross salary was actually SEK 130. This is certainly the case in Poland. There is an employee who pays all social security contributions, the employer pays nothing. Swedish companies, on the other hand, have to pay the Swedish worker a wage of Swedish kroner, and on the top of this, the Swedish employer's and social security contributions are 31 p.m. The result is in any case that Swedish construction companies are out of chance in the competition with Polish rental companies. In this case, something has apparently not been done that is directly illegal, but we can wonder about the ‘driving fee’ of 21,5 pst. are actually paid into the Polish state – permanently. This example shows that Nordic contracting entities must be aware of whom they are contracting, that international rental companies must be closely followed, and that there is a need for better coordination of cross-border legislation in the EEA area. This is also the reason for the EU agency directive. It introduces a principle of equal pay. This implies that workers hired out of a temporary employment agency must have pay and working conditions which they would have obtained from direct employment in the lessee's business. This will lead to better pay and working conditions for hired workers. The Temporary Agency Directive will lead to a level playing field throughout the EEA. So the directive not only brings disadvantages, as can be seen in the public debate, but it also allows us to do this right. There is also a clear need for the Norwegian authorities, such as the police, the Tax Agency, the Labour Inspectorate or the Food Authority, to step up their efforts to detect illegal conditions in the temporary employment and rental industry. For us in the Workers' Party, the fight against social dumping is one of the most important things we do, not only for all workers to have safe and good pay and working conditions, but also because those companies, both temporary agencies and legal establishments, who operate seriously and within the law, should have the opportunity to continue doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1291	I thank the interpellant for bringing up this theme. Working life has changed dramatically in recent decades. This explains why the case of social dumping has been able to occur, and at the same time shows the need for a review and a change in the framework of working life to counteract this. In the fight against social dumping, it is entirely fundamental that supervisory authorities should be adequately resourced and competent to exercise the necessary controls. The Progress Party believes that the Labour Inspectorate – and the tax administration and the police – have an important role to play in controlling social dumping. The recent coverage of labour-environment offences in both the private and public sectors means that there is a need to review the legislation. The Working Environment Act is rigid and not flexible when it comes to working time arrangements. The debate on the inclusion of more people in the labour market shows that this law has to be amended both when it comes to statutory rights to leave, temporary entry, working time arrangements and statutory rights to minimum pay. It was then nice to see in today's business that there was a working party-driven municipality north which had said yes and amen to the North Sea Tour. It is very gratifying that they see it is positive that both adders and users are involved in determining that they want this tour. I think there's going to be more to the aftertaste. As long as you don't want to deal with these things, it won't give deferred groups that are currently outside of work, a chance to get a bone inside. We can't afford so many people to be discriminated against because they have no or little education, that they need extra facilities or are exploited by employers because they don't know the law and have bad language skills. It is not our proposals for changes in the Work Environment Act that create A and B teams. There's already an A and B team in work. It has been created because one has a hysterical fear of making changes to the laws, and instead will force unorganized workers to organize themselves. It is not a free democratic working life we talk about then, rather on the contrary. The Progress Party will introduce a ROS scheme, which is a tax deduction for a job in the world. ROS stands for cleaning, care and service. A corresponding scheme has one in our neighbouring country, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, which is called ROT, which is responsible for rehabilitation, reconstruction and construction. This has been a success and has led to a significant reduction in black work, as well as the employment of more people. This may be a good incentive for more people who buy black services to benefit from white work, and for those who work black to work in the way they do not get the right to work in black jobs. In addition, we know that black work is a germ for criminal activity when it comes to tax evasion. We hope for positive support from everyone when our proposal comes. We believe that publicising collective agreements will not give a good effect to getting rid of unacceptable and poor pay and working conditions. Social dumping has become a motto that is used unpresistingly and uncritically when one indicates that a worker has been paid under the tariff quota. Any case where it has been paid under the tariff quota does not necessarily mean that there are poor working conditions. We want to introduce a legally binding minimum wage. Such a lower wage limit will make it easier for the Labour Inspectorate to carry out checks on activities that are below the statutory minimum rate. In 2006, Fafo carried out a question-search, ‘Cross-free working life? Changes in labour strategies of Norwegian enterprises’, on the use of labour from the new EU countries among all enterprises in the construction industry, five industrial industries, the hotel and restaurant industries and the cleaning industry. The results show that companies in the construction industry believe that decisions to make collective bargaining agreements have had little or no effect on the costs or competitive situation of companies. Decisions have also not affected the use of labour from Eastern Europe by enterprises. The report made by Econ Pöyry in 2010 concludes that public procurement in Norway would hardly affect the rates of remuneration agreed for highly competitive sectors on the product market. The party for progress is busy and respects the laws and rules negotiated. Nevertheless, there must be room to change laws that are no longer in line with the society in which we live. When it is called for to streamline and regulate the working life more than we do today, it will not help to ensure that the law is not violated and that social dumping does not happen. Public authorities must be able to require contractors to conduct a good and proper assessment before entering into contracts and that contractors require their contractors to comply with the applicable laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1317	I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important and most relevant discussion. I want to start with some clarifications. The right has also been among those who have called for a definition of the term ‘social dumping’. It's not because, as the previous speaker said, it's a motto – I think it's a characteristic that I can't stand behind. It's more because when social dumping is used about everything that's outside the tariff, it's hard to know where to put the bump, and it's hard to know what kind of phenomenon you're really talking about. I believe that there have been many cases, especially in the last few years, not least because the press has been involved in the matter, in areas where there is clearly social dumping, where there is no one in Norway who would say that it is acceptable, where there are almost mafia states, gross exploitation of labour, labour which is not only paid less than tariffs, but which may not be paid at all, where there is blackmail — stupidly unprofessional industries. Therefore, it is also important to say that what is illegal, and what is unacceptable, is illegal and unacceptable. At the same time, it's very important, I think, if you're going to have a focused discussion about social dumping, and how to prevent it in working life, not to almost touch all things together into one big butter. I think it's important to sort the mind a little bit to know where to put the bump. I am very happy that several municipalities in Norway, after there have been revelations that, for example. Adecco has broken the Working Environment Act and had arrangements for employees who are not acceptable, are not in the contract with the municipalities, and are not in Norwegian law, has terminated those contracts. I'm very happy about that. I find that in municipalities where there is municipal operation, there is no possibility of cancelling the contract that way. It's just an objective fact, that's what it is. However, it is very important to send out a clear signal — and also to do so in practice — that what is illegal will be seriously affected. At the same time, I would like to warn you a lot about comparing e.g. the situation which has been revealed in Moss's nursing homes, where there has been widespread overtime use, and employees who have spent the night under the conditions which are at least worse than those upstairs, with some of the most serious social dumping we have seen, revealed in particular. The newspaper. I think it points to some of the issues here. The right has also been concerned about listening to the social partners in this case. We have been busy listening to the trade unions and employee organisations, but also listening to those who organise small and medium-sized enterprises. Some of the reasons why we've been skeptical, for example. joint responsibility, is not about bad will, but it is simply in a skepticism that small and medium-sized enterprises with three to four-five employees, for example, will have enough capacity to follow up this legislation on their own. Therefore, the Right proposed an offensive and, in our opinion, a good arrangement for the voluntary implementation of the monitoring of employee pay conditions and working conditions, which we believe would work well. It is also worth remembering that there must be a whole of politics. There is no doubt that if you make it harder to have, for example, temporary employees, this means that more people are going to use temporary employment agencies. There can be no doubt about it. It is also important to see both sides of the case when it comes to publicising tariffs or full access rights for local employee organisations. It is also important in Norway to restrict the freedom of organisation for those who choose not to organise. I would like to repeat that I believe it is an important point to organise in Norway, but it is also important that those who do not organise should have the opportunity and respect for it. I think, in summary, that we have a lot to do in the fight against social dumping. I believe that the construction industry through cooperation between the parties here has gone ahead with a good example. In the last few years, the right has proposed to further strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, including to allow them to go to inspections outside normal working hours, to reveal, among other things. serious exploitation of labour. At the same time, I think that in the wider discussion of the work environment law one basic fact needs to be taken into account. It is that today's work environment law is too weak for someone, by the fact that the protection it provides, is really not there. We can see that, among other things. in Moss, and we see it in part of the privately-run nursing homes. But it is also, for some, too rigid and too bureaucratic. If you were to blow all of this up into a big discussion about social dumping, I think you'd be right behind the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1347	I would also like to thank the interpellant for a very important interpellation and say that I agree with every word he said. The fight against social dumping is in a way the main dividing line between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy today. This is about the main distribution mechanism we have in terms of both income and money, but also in terms of influence and power. If you don't realize that there are pay and working conditions that you can live with, even for ordinary people who have built this country, make it equivalent, make ordinary people today have an influence in their own lives – if you don't understand it, but are willing to gamble with it, as I see it on the right, you want a society with greater differences. It doesn't want SV, because it bodes on all the important things that we're concerned about. Therefore, the right side has also been opposed to several of the most important measures against social dumping, for example. solidarity, e.g. transparency, precisely those things that make it possible to stop social dumping. We've seen the arguments in the settings, and we've heard them today. Why are you against it? Yes, it prevents competition on wages and salaries – it prevents competition on wages and salaries. It means only one thing that ordinary people have to pay down – cleaners, building workers, hotel and restaurant workers. The last thing we see now about what competition on pay is about is the Adecco case. It's not just about foreign labour coming. It is also about the level of pay in Norway. Now it's about an ethical defense that everyone who comes here should be treated just like the rest of us. It's an ethical principle. The majority of the population is at least firmly attached to it. The second is that if we don't stop this, this is an attack on the pay and working conditions of ordinary people. It competitions out all serious Norwegian employers who want to follow the law. We're against that. I very much agree with the interpellant that concerns the NUF companies. We have to look at it. What's their purpose? Do we need them? Do they have social benefits? We have to look at these types of companies, which make it hard to check what's going on. SV wants increased transparency because it is necessary to reveal and to be able to go to the notification. We believe that we need to look at the right to apply to trade unions, precisely because in some industries there is a low level of organisation. It is impossible for the individual to carry this load alone, because then a ‘be rid of’ job also has. Stronger penalties for violation of the law – it is extremely profitable to engage in social dumping, and therefore it must be extremely expensive to be taken. Everyone agrees that we need to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate and that they should provide more unannounced supervision, so that they are taken. The manning industry, together with the Right and the Advance Party, is now running a raid in the municipal sector in order to increase the number of enterprises to tender. What we know is going with this is exactly what we've seen in the Adecco case. You make a vortex of companies under this which is completely impossible to control. I am a happy taxpayer when my tax money goes to school and care, child protection or care for the elderly. But I'm also being reasonably ridiculed by paying taxes if that's how my tax money ends up in the pockets of these companies that have located themselves in a tax haven. They're not on the splinter layer. In addition, they pay underpaid the people who do the most important jobs in Norwegian welfare. It makes me completely furious. I cannot understand why we are going to do this if we do not want Norwegian tax money to go there. That must be what you want. I cannot understand why the NHO and the business organisations in Norway are not furious about this, because this is not in their interest. At least it is not in the interests of taxpayers that it is. It is very important for the public sector to use tenders – for sometimes we have to do so, for example. when we build – that you are professional in dealing with the other professionals. Otherwise, it goes wrong when the public sector puts things out for tender. Unfortunately, there are many examples of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1368	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for the interpellation. He did not know how timely it was when it was being promoted. It has become very topical now. The simple starting point is that temporary workers are something that you should use when you need a temporary worker. But one sees temporary employment agencies operating in more and more sectors of society. In my post, I want to focus primarily on the care sector, where temporary employment agencies have been in the media's searchlight lately. The centre party's starting point is that we want the best possible service provision in the care sector. This means that we are willing to look at solutions other than public ones to solve future care challenges. However, we are strongly critical of the use of private, commercial actors who cultivate the right-hand side. In summary, the Centre Party is in order for the public to have a clear and clear primary responsibility, that there should be room for private initiative in the form of professional and idealist alternatives to the public offer, and that private, commercial operators should have less leeway than they have today. The Adecco case has revealed fundamental weaknesses in right-hand agency thinking. We have over-based the manning in the care professions on the import of labour and the hire of temporary workers. It has been accepted as a lower fixed crew than is necessary for normal operation. It is clear that the person who has traveled a long time to work here ashore for a shorter period will accept poor working conditions and longer working hours than we expect for health care. In the long term, it can further undermine the working conditions of care professionals, and I think it can counteract the recruitment we depend entirely on in the care professions in the years to come. The Adecco case isn't just about Adecco. It is about the price paid by employees and caregivers for a privatisation experiment. It's in many ways an ideologically driven experiment. Just think about what is in the concept of ‘effective care for the elderly’. Caring for the elderly and sick is largely about having time for those who need care and care. It's about employees who have time to talk and not least to listen. It's about the user being seen and valued. It is not about providing care for as much as possible in the shortest possible time. I believe, and the centre party believes, that the Adecco case must raise a debate on the price of efficiency. Accordion and rapid operations may be correct when it comes to connecting a car or picking strawberries, but it has little to do with a nursing home. There is no doubt that it is largely the caregiver and the employees who have paid the price of the efficiency increase and the gain that the competitive outsourcing may have brought. The Central Party and I therefore believe it is time to build up the principle that the individual municipality, the individual unit, should be a unit that aims to provide the best possible service to its citizens. Those who work to give us good services as citizens will play together on a team to solve the problem, not compete with each other to win the next bid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1390	The fight against social dumping must continue. I am pleased that the interpellant has raised this issue today. For the Christian People's Party, it is also about the protection of the weak party and that we as the authorities have an extra great responsibility to ensure that working life is in such a way that we can be proud of it. The question that the interpellant travels is interesting. For what does the government do, and what do we do, when it does not help to introduce solidarity and identity cards and to publicise collective bargaining agreements? When we share the commitment to the fight against social dumping, we must also go further and be willing to look at new measures. That's why I want to challenge the Council of State whether it might be worth investigating the consequences of national minimum wages. The interpellant is talking about social dumping, a concept in which we are talking about unacceptablely poor pay and working conditions. However, as many have been involved, the term ‘social dumping’ has sometimes been used a little often in contexts that it may not be appropriate. That's why I have to ask if the government parties can participate in diluting the term. With regard to today’s interpellation, it is not certain that a foreign enterprise is engaged in social dumping even if it won a bid for a serious Norwegian enterprise, as can be seen from the interpellation text. The Christian People's Party is anxious for a working life in which everyone is entitled to decent pay and good working conditions. However, it is not such that any case of worse working conditions than under the collective bargaining agreement qualifies for the term ‘social dumping’. If there is a clear breach of the Working Environment Act, the term ‘social dumping’ is relevant. The problem is that in Norway wages are not regulated by law. It doesn't have to be a problem, but it makes it harder to say what is social dumping. It can make the fight against social dumping more difficult. The interpellant promotes the publication of collective bargaining agreements as an instrument for social dumping in the most vulnerable sectors. The problem is that in these sectors the tariff coverage is low and competitive tariff agreements exist, and the public sector can, as many have been involved, help to weaken the freedom of organisation. There are high productivity requirements in Norway and entry into the labour market is difficult. If one is unable to produce quickly enough or well enough, it may be difficult to get his first job when one comes to Norway. Then a ask the question of whether it really is the great help the people, all these workers, who come to Norway, want. I think, if we think about it, many of them really just want to work, and they're also allowed to work for a much higher salary than they did in their home country. It has not been said that through my discussion of social dumping I want to reduce the fight against it, but like several, I want us to become clearer about what social dumping is. Today’s debate, which is about a special sector — temporary employment agencies and perhaps not least non-residents — has another side. I also want to make it clear that our society is both served with and dependent on foreign labour and also on temporary employment agencies. Our community serves to have temporary employment agencies to help solve the work. The agency actually carries out social responsibility when it provides people with work and gives them the opportunity to train and further develop, which in turn strengthens their ability to enter the labour market. We must not forget that there are often temporary agencies that provide work for people who have become redundant or who provide people with a cultural background, their very first job. The Christian People's Party looks forward to the new big message and will work constructively to strengthen — and also find new — action in order to win even stronger in the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1411	The Labour Party is opposed to social dumping in the labour market. It is contrary to the ideology of the Workers' Party, which is based on equality and equal treatment of people. To achieve this goal, we need a decent working life. Paying differently for equal work done at the same place of work is not within the concept of propriety. Let me make it quite clear: temporary employment agencies are not synonymous with social dumping, but I still choose to use this interpellation debate to point out and show that we have recently seen some serious examples of social dumping in the labour market – most recently in the fishing industry. According to NRK Troms and Finnmark on 16 March 2011, the Fjordlaks-Eide Tufjord Farm in Finnmark has equally well outsourced the entire employment of the Lithuanian company Altonas. It means Lithuanian pay and working conditions. In the NRK's lookup, it was claimed that the hourly salary was 60 kroner. This situation does not serve the community where the enterprise is located, in this case the municipality of Måsø in Finnmark. Nor does it serve the worker, only the owner. A salary that is not available for living in Norway prevents integration and migration. Finnmark does not want to dwell on the raw materials and, in addition, be associated with social dumping. Such relationships can only be characterised as they are, namely substitution. It is clearly not illegal in Norway to outsource pay and working conditions to other countries, with a number of worse conditions than in Norway, but there will not be much equality, social justice and the integration of foreign workers into Norwegian working life. It was probably not the motive for Fjordlaks to conclude this agreement either. A reduced salary level administered from another country may also mean a reduced level of taxation. Does the Minister share my concerns on the tax side – not related to the particular issue I mention, but at the general level? Behind all things, there are people who are hit, as well as in the example of Fjordlaks and Tufjord. Outsourcing of pay and working conditions means Lithuanian sick pay for the young man who lost two fingers during work on the Norwegian Tuf agriculture. He got less than NOK 2000 per month in sick pay; so much was two fingers worth. We can't let the young man have been strangled for life without doing anything about it. The answer to these unworthy conditions is that the fishing industry, such as the construction industry, needs to be made public. There are highlights: a wide range of organisations in the fishing industry — both at sea and on land — have contacted the authorities of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Ministry of Labour with a view to discussing this issue. On 11 March 2011, a meeting was held where this was the subject. It is positive that the industry itself took the initiative in this meeting and thus signals that they want to be in the forefront of the fight against social dumping. It is a prerequisite that there must be an orderly working environment in order for the fishery and maritime food industry to be a healthy industry. The government has given the Labour Inspectorate increased resources. It is a prerequisite for overseeing and detecting unworthy employment. The size should – and the Working Party should – follow this work closely. Our amazing seafood, with the world's best raw materials, cannot be marred by inappropriate working conditions. The fisheries and seafood industry must be made public!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1441	I also want to start by thanking the representative, Gullvåg, for raising an unusually important topic. Unfortunately, this issue is becoming more and more topical as we become more international. I can start by mentioning that there was some of what SV warned against when Norway agreed to the EEA Agreement, and not least when we became part of Schengen – this is because it becomes more difficult to control, and that we will be challenged in some key areas. That is why it is important that we have regular debates on this and that we ensure that we have a proper working life. I would like not least to congratulate the Oslo Building Workers' Association, which has stood on a great deal to organise workers from new EEA countries, because – I would also like to be told – it seems that some people believe that workers come from, for example. Poland, Lithuania or other countries, and which are strongly present in Norway to work, it seems that it is perfectly right to work for lice pay, and that we should really just let them do it. But it actually turns out that's not the case. It is true that these workers too want to stand united with Norwegian workers and, when they have become aware of their rights, have helped to rebel against them being seen as a B-layer in Norwegian employment. They don't like it either. But the key to this is strong trade unions. It is that we ensure that trade unions have the power, influence, the ability to organise, the ability to have transparency, the ability to intervene in the workplace. We must not deprive them of their rights, but, on the contrary, strengthen their rights. The government has taken many good and offensive initiatives in this area, and the red-green parties have been active to strengthen the rights. It's very important. We have to be offensive also in the future. There will be a need for continuous work to expand both rights and obligations to prevent us from getting more social dumping. There will also be a need for proper, serious discussions in the municipalities, not least as regards the use of recruitment agencies, as regards the outsourcing and privatisation of welfare services in the municipalities. SV has adopted an opinion at its national meeting this weekend that goes far, where we issue what we call an employer guarantee, where we are going to work actively against all kinds of social dumping, we are going to say no to the privatisation and outsourcing of municipal services, we are going to work for less use of temporary jobs and for everyone who wants full-time jobs to get it, and then we are going to keep the use of temporary workers and especially temporary agencies at a minimum level. I want to warn you about what the right-hand side is now trying to do, by holding out the Adecco case as an exception, which shows that we were dealing with an unprofessional actor here. Adecco was the flagship itself for the serious part of the crew industry. So it turns out that it's the whole system that encourages sloppyness. The only way to gain profit is to directly solve the pay and work conditions of employees. Obviously, it also affects the quality of elderly nursing people to the seventh and last. Within the construction industry, it is also seen that this is going on in terms of quality, by increasing the number of permanent employees, which can then ensure continuity in knowledge and skills development. It's a direct threat to the subject itself. So try the right-hand side to say, no, really, it's about having too little flexible work life. It's also a very dangerous way to go. On the contrary, we must hold back the right to work through a lifetime, the opportunity to have a salary to live on. We don't have to assume that we're going to have a working life where we're starting with those who are flexible, healthy, who only work for a short period of time, and who do something completely different. I would also like to warn against this ROS model, where our tax money is going to go directly into the pockets of well-funded people, that we are subsidising their ability to absorb underpaid labour. At least I won't be a part of it!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1458	The interpellant takes up a very serious theme. Social dumping concerns us all. In the most serious cases, there is no doubt that trafficking in human beings has been put into practice within individual actors in Norwegian business. Then there are degrees of seriousness -- we can agree on that. But I don't think there's any reason at all to have to spend time – in this room – discussing clarifications about the meaning of the term. First, regardless of degree: dumping pay and working conditions affects the serious enterprises, the companies that choose to maintain a permanent staff on an orderly basis. For each time a rocker comes to it, challenges a competitive situation and pushes the competitive situation. It is a problem that it is competing with this as a basis. The second relationship is that workers hired are exploited, while employees employed in serious enterprises are, of course, challenged by others offering something for a completely different framework. The Community – as the last, at least in what I am to say – is hit by the likelihood of tax evasion, etc. in its keel water is very large. I am therefore pleased that many of the measures taken by the Red-Green Government have actually worked, but it is far from being able to say that one is satisfied with the situation. I am pleased that the Council of State says that this problem should be a main focus area in the future as well. Our problem, or our challenge, is that regardless of what we choose to do, someone will try to take advantage of the opportunities that are, to make quick money at the expense of other people and serious businesses. This is an international problem, it's a national problem, it's a human problem, and it's a big social problem. It distorts competition from serious enterprises to enterprises that choose to exploit the system in place and that can be established. It's not acceptable. I want to take four reflections in relation to the discussion about limiting the possibilities for this kind of undesirable behaviour. The representative Karin Andersen was in on it. In my opinion, the level of penalties for this type of crime must be assessed. The risk of getting caught seems to me to be relatively modest, while the penalties are initially set very low. The second point I think it's important to focus on is the requirement for knowledge – both to the company that carries out a mission and to those that are to carry out a mission. It is liberalisation on it with knowledge for those who carry out and do a job, which I believe serves those who want to be unprofessional. Here the government must follow closely and try to maintain the motivation for high knowledge for business in the areas concerned. A third point is that I think – although there may be a form at present that prevents it – that the tenant should pay the salary to the tenant. It may, as I said, be some problems, but it had at least initially given the lessee a significant overview of the lessee you have rented in. So to the last point: the legal basis for rental and temporary employment. I think it is dangerous to say that the regulation that now exists is the one to be continued. I think it is important that the government actually evaluates the situation, not least the developments in the area to which the representative Henriksen referred and which she repeated in a good way. It's absolutely necessary to take the most seriously. I'm glad the Council of State has an offensive entry into the interpellation. This is such a serious theme that the Council of State can never allow a break from the theme. In order to improve the situation, all instruments need to be assessed, and we do not need to get into a situation where the Right uses this as a starting point to conceal its desire to ‘flexibiliise’ Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1484	I have to thank the interpellant for taking up perhaps one of the absolutely most important things we're going to discuss in this room. For what is involved in temporary employment, and what is involved in hiring out, is the question of what kind of working life we should have in the future. In Europe, large parts of the serious business are disappearing. In return, temporary employment agencies, temporary employment agencies and rental agencies will be more used. This does not mean that new jobs will come, that just means that the old jobs will be replaced by jobs of much poorer quality, much less wages and much less security for those who are going to take the jobs. The situation in many of the employment agencies and temporary employment agencies is usually that the temporary workers do not have a fixed-hour employment contract. In case of emergency, they have a contract confirmation for each individual assignment, for a limited period of time. This means that there is no predictability in terms of the economy, and is effectively cut off from, for example: the provision of housing loans. In many cases, job protection is non-existent. If a rental candidate does not meet the customer’s needs or requirements, they do not have to be cancelled, it is just not to call them up for new or further assignments. But more often now, in contrast to what is in line with the Working Environment Act, we see that a more permanent needs are being replaced in the company. In many industries, the level of organisation is so low that there are no functioning trustees, and therefore there is no need to discuss with trustees. It is open to individual employers to take up rentals. But what may be more serious to discover these conditions is that trustees in the companies that hire agency workers do not have access to employment contracts and conditions. Many people who work in temporary employment offices and in the personnel industry may be vulnerable in the labour market. There may be language, there may be a lack of knowledge of fundamental rights, and not least that there are precarious employment conditions that make it impossible to deal with critical issues with the employer. I think there are a lot of questions that we need to look at in order to get the phenomenon of social dumping alive. But I think that some of the things we, among other things, need to look at, is how the Business Transfer Act works. Should permanent staff be subject to more stringent requirements? Should it be a recognised apprenticeship company to ensure the recruitment of skilled labour for the future? One of the things that might make renting profitable is that retirement is not included. That's one of the things we should be looking at. Several of those who have spoken here have been involved in the various ways of organizing themselves away from the responsibilities of the employer. NUF companies are one thing, individual enterprises are another. It is an effective way to waive the rights of the employee. We need to have a discussion about how desirable these forms are in order to get away from employers' responsibilities in the Norwegian labour market. Several have been subject to the law of public disclosure, and that is a good arrangement. But I think we also need to look at what we can do to make it better. Many say that the documentation requirements make it almost impossible to have it published, and then there are questions of duration. But I also believe that we should allow ourselves to have a wider debate on the instruments of the Public Service Act on the right of access to trust, liability and joint and several liability, and whether these are instruments that can be made more widely available, for example. in a form of the Working Environment Act. But the real superworkers in Norwegian working life, namely the temporary workers, should also be lifted. We have to get into a system where we guarantee the same salary as in the company to which you are hired. Here again, the question of retirement is raised, and we should see if it can also be done to get into a law. The right to work if a claim for permanent employment is made should also be looked at, because we know that in too many companies, there are very serious employees who are demanding permanent employment. In conclusion, we know that the culture of fear in parts of the world of work is so strong that some workers – unlike individual representatives from the right – will not organise themselves. We need to look at a collective court of law to ensure these employees too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1503	I would first like to thank you for a fairly strong red-green commitment to the debate on an important topic. I'm not as sure if I can say I'm satisfied with the engagement on the other side of the political dividing line. But I have recorded that some people have problems with the definition of social dumping. I'm not particularly in doubt that when the state company Statoil hires a foreign-owned company that throws Norwegian seafarers ashore, it replaces them with Asian crews for a fraction of the wages paid to Norwegians, then it's social dumping. I think it's going to be an academic discussion to discuss it from a different point of view. But for the help of the representatives Røe Isaksen and Ropstad, I might be able to use a different terminology, which they are better familiar with, namely the concept of ‘competition distortion’, because that is also what this is about. This is the form of competition in which unprofessional companies, by paying their own employees and offering them poorer working conditions, are able to take on important tasks in Norwegian working life. I am opposed to this kind of distortion of competition, and I also hope that, in time – or in time – I will receive support from the right in the fight against this obscurity. Then more have been concerned with the issue of publicising collective bargaining agreements. Let me immediately stress that the public service has worked where the public service is in place. The problem with the Public Service Act is that it is too poorly accessible to industries and areas that absolutely need to have the collective agreements published, but due to the legislation, full agreement on the implementation of a law is required and this is not always possible. Let me say finally: in Norway it is not forbidden to pay people badly, and there are many who do. But it is not morally acceptable that it should be done, and then we are right away on a topic from a previous debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1514	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for this important debate and, to this extent, also thank all the debaters for the debate. It has been informative. I want to say that those who have been the most obvious here are the Progress Party, which took a step into the whole work environment law and more or less said that everything there was too rigid, that they wanted a liberalisation and a decoration, and, in my view, topped it all up with a system of tax havens for those who can afford to work at home. I don't think – like the SV representative – that giving tax relief to people who already pay their employees badly means they're going to pay them better. So to Torbjørn Røe Isaksen: I agree that it's important – as he himself said – that you don't touch everything into one butter when it comes to social dumping. I think it's very unfortunate. I don't think you should get used to the concepts, but we basically know what we see when we see it. We know that giving people wages in kind, not giving people overtime and letting people sleep in bombs is social dumping. So we know, I mean, and I've been very clear, that spending overtime for many times in public health isn't good, but because this is about sick people, and you have to take into account getting the tour to go up, it's not social dumping. We have to separate those things. If we mix those things – I don't mean to tell you that the representative does, but someone is trying to do it in the debate – then we're going to get wrong, and we can't take what we're going to take. So to Ropstad: I have very much faith that it is a genuine desire to fix this, when I am challenged in relation to the minimum wage. But I just have to say that I'm not taking that challenge, I don't think minimum pay is the way to go. We know that in those countries that have used the minimum wage, the low wage has been collected. There have been combinations of social security and pay so that people can live off the job. And where will the pay be? That's the big challenge, I mean. Are not the social partners best placed to determine their wages and salaries? We have a good tradition for that in Norway. It has worked very well. In addition, I am afraid that removing wage fixing from the social partners will just weaken the social partners, and a well-organised, well-organised working life is, to me, the most important guarantee of a work against social dumping. Then I fully agree that tax evasion is important. We have to look at it, and it's a big challenge in this context. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that the tax authorities and the Labour Inspectorate work together, and the efforts they are now making by the Ministry of Finance against financial crime are fundamental. Finally, punishment is important. It was referred to by a representative. And I'll never pause – I was encouraged to – I'll never pause from this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1529	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1543	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1552	This matter is about putting human dignity at the centre. The TT mechanism is essential for persons who cannot use the ordinary collective offer. It is about facilitating an inclusive society for all — a society where each can use its resources for its own benefit and for the benefit of others. The basis for a political solution in this matter was good. A majority of the representatives had signed and promised the Blind Alliance that they would be in favour of a system of door-to-door transport for disabled people. All the parties had in different contexts earlier in Stortingen joined that goal. It is more difficult to imagine a better starting point for a solution in this case. I would like to thank the Committee for a good job, for taking good time where there was a need for more clarification, and also for working quickly when there was a need for it. We had a responsibility to move on after the organisations of disabled people have fought for a better transport system for 30 years. In this case, there are three proposals, two from the Advancement Party and one from the Christian People's Party and the Right. The Progress Party wishes to introduce national guidelines as soon as possible and to assign responsibility for this to Nav. The proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Right is to launch a pilot project. The proposal to start the pilot project shall be supported by the entire Committee: ‘The Committee asks the Government to work to launch trials as quickly as possible.’ We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased about that. I also believe that this pilot scheme will show that it is possible to make the scheme national. We therefore look forward to it being launched, and expect from the Christian People's Party that there will be funds for this, preferably in revision. It really surprises me that the government parties in the vote have announced that they do not vote in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Right for a test order, i.e. proposal No. 3, when they agree with us in the form of a note. It may be a mistake, and at least I expect them to support this proposal in the vote, so that it will not be put to the vote. The differences in transport services around the country are very large and quite random. In most counties, two to four individual trips are offered per month. By comparison, the Travel Practice Survey to the Institute of Transport Economics shows that people generally have three individual trips per day. After a journey back and forth to the store, many TT users have used a 14-day transport quota. The parents' meeting, the daughter's football training, or a movie tour, there's no room for that. I've heard a lot of personal stories. A woman in the 40s from Skåk has transportation for NOK 1,054 a year. For her this does not last for more than four trips at the store during the year. She has nothing left for other activities or personal tasks. Her husband always has to drive the kids and follow up on the kids' activities. A man from Gausdal in his 30s has transportation for 2000 kroner a year. It covers four trips to Lillehammer every year. Naturally, the situation is seriously affected by the possibility of being active. A woman from Rauma in the 50s has 2,400 TT crowns this year. Because of large distances in the municipality, it only lasts for a trip to the centre of the municipality this year. The TT situation leads to social isolation for many people. They rarely get out of their homes, have no friends and family visited, they can't attend meetings or in organisational life, and the situation affects the ability to follow up their own children. At the hearing, the organisations of the blind and the disabled submitted to the Committee good proposals on how a national TT system for people with disabilities with high needs can look like and how it can be organised. This shall not be a special scheme giving special privileges to a selected group, but there shall be a system which ensures the same opportunities for disabled persons as for all others. A new national regime should apply to those people who, due to disability, are critically dependent on transport systems in order to live a normal and active life. This user group is limited in size. Estimates estimate that a satisfactory offer of door-to-door transport for disabled people with high needs will cost about 200 million. kr. In the first instance, organisations want a testing scheme in some counties. As I said, the whole committee is in favour of this. In this way, we can gain opinions and experiences that can ensure a better TT system nationally. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about the optimum functioning of the TT system. Full participation and equality for people with disabilities are an important policy objective with broad support in this room. The quality and scope of the transport service are essential if we are to achieve this objective. It's about putting human dignity in the center. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1587	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1590	TT transport will help to include people in a society where everyone has equal value, and everyone has equal opportunities to participate. The working party will have such an inclusive society. It is the most important content of our goal of «everybody is to be included». Many who want to participate in work and social life face barriers and become excluded. When unemployment increases, the weakest groups in the labour market are often the hardest hit. Where public transport is not well organised, all disabled persons are affected. We do not want bad public services. Investment and maintenance in municipalities were central to the action package for increased employment proposed by the government in the context of the financial crisis, and investment in transport is central to contributing to employment. Good infrastructure, roads and railways are important for business throughout the country. In the national transport plan, the government provides for a record increase in the number of people travelling. This is how the Government’s Universal Design Action Plan and increased accessibility 2009–2013 are followed up in the transport sector. The road ahead will be extremely demanding. Norway shall be universally designed in 2025. The National Audit Office examined access to social life for people with disabilities in a broad survey in 2009. The collective offer was also reviewed here. Trains and buses are characterized by varying availability. Differences in altitude between bus and bus stop, distance between train/T-rail and platform lead to problems of access and disembarkation. Few of the country's 360 railway stations have good access for people with reduced mobility and vision. The county council imposes different requirements for accessibility for disabled persons when purchasing new buses or bus services. The bus park is also available to varying degrees. Better accessibility and participation for disabled people has long been on the political agenda. In the case of public transport, an overall increase has meant that municipalities and transport companies have to focus primarily on facilitating vehicle and station/stoppage conditions so as to increase accessibility for disabled groups. In fact, it is an objective that fewer people need special transport. State companies and state politicians responsible for transport have a great job to do. The first objective must be to allow an ageing population to use conventional public transport. In the case of tenders, attention must be paid to the availability of tenders. Unfortunately, we have experience that old and bad material both in terms of availability and working environment is purchased by private companies that will win tenders at low prices. Regrettably, the fact that outsourcing makes the situation of persons with disabilities more difficult is not uncommon. Change of supplier of TT caused complete chaos for users in Oslo at the end of the year. The municipality had not imposed strict enough conditions or provided for transitional arrangements that worked when changing the supplier. National guidelines would not have helped. Conditions are different around our country. In some places there is no alternative collective offer. Then it is a private car or a social security car that is the solution for most people. TT shall cover the gaps in existing transport arrangements for those requiring door-to-door transport. Local availability must be realised. Locally, we have advice and representation arrangements in municipalities and counties for people with disabilities. Municipalities and county councils shall ensure that disabled people are guaranteed an open, wide and accessible involvement in dealing with matters of particular importance to them. This is important for local democracy. The advice shall be a resource for universal design challenges. Several sites should be provided with time to establish tests on service routes and on order transport, and trials should be evaluated in 2012. The indicative guidelines for the TT scheme by the Ministry of Transport mainly form the basis for the TT scheme in the counties. That's not the main challenge. The main weight of TT users is older people without severe disability. They shouldn't need door-to-door transport. This shows that the availability of most people is too poor. Here, effort is expected. In addition, we will have regular reports from the counties on the TT offer, because we will probably always need TT. It's not long until 2025. In this respect, the transport sector must also be universally designed. It's not very uplifting, and here's the main challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1613	Oslo Municipality started with the TT scheme in the first half of the 1970s. This led to many people with reduced mobility being able to participate in society in a better way. Oslo has also been the state that has had the best arrangement, but unfortunately there have also been major problems here lately. With today's TT system, we see large differences from state to state – differences that in no way reflect the needs of users but reflect only economical policy priorities. In 2010, it was approx. 115 400 authorised TT users in Norway. There was a decline of 7,300 people from the ‘top year’ in 2000. Only eight out of ten are active users. Sogn and Fjordane have most authorised users, 44 per 1 000 inhabitants, while in Eastfold there are fewer, only nine per 1 000 inhabitants. Eastfold is also the only group to provide needs tests for applicants over 67 years of age in relation to income. Those who make over 2 G don't get a TT card. The number of trips also varies greatly, from 65 in some states down to ten. In Oslo, I guess it's 65. The size of the proportion also varies considerably between the counties. Oslo spends on average NOK 10 800 per user, while Westfold spends NOK 1384. This shows that there are so many differences that it has nothing to do with the needs of users. Since 2003, the size has asked for national guidelines to be established for the TT scheme, and in the nomination of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 the majority asked for such guidelines to be evaluated. However, nothing has been done by the government. Sweden has had a national transport system for disabled people for several years. Organised transport for disabled persons applies to persons who are unable to use collective services or their own car. It's a scheme for those who because of their disability don't have the ability to get out in the same way as others. The transport service shall provide a door-to-door transport service. There shall be an offer to enable them to participate actively in the same way as the population otherwise. From 2009, a three-year pilot project was launched in seven counties, which ends this year. The main objective of the project has been to find solutions that increase the mobility of people with disabilities, and it is expected that coordination between ordering transport and TT service would provide better use of the overall resources than the current organisation does. I expect that evaluations have been carried out along the way, and that experience from this project and from the Swedish scheme can form the basis for investigating and implementing a national system that can enter into force throughout the country. In this context, a review of the whole system of TT agreements should also be carried out so that bad agreements do not become part of the system. I have received information with examples that TT driving in the vicinity of Oslo costs the triple of the normal taxi fare, which may seem disproportionately expensive. There is agreement that the system, as it works, is far from satisfactory. All parties have opposed this proposal earlier, but unfortunately it does not appear that they are doing so today. Transport schemes are a prerequisite for more people to be able to participate actively and have a social life even in leisure time, regardless of the need for friends and family to drive them. The TT scheme is too many the very prerequisites to make everyday life go up. The system also needs to be more flexible, as many experience changes in needs over a year. There can be no two application dates in a year. If you do not decide at one point in time, you must therefore wait six months for approval. The Progress Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal for the Right and Christian People's Party. It was said here that we were in the comment. I don't think we are. We went out of that comment just because we have a proposal that goes further and that's better. We want the system going on all over the country right away. But subsidisingly, we will vote in favour of the second best and start pilot schemes. However, we fear that new pilot schemes are now helping to train what is only right: to introduce a predictable, flexible and adapted system to meet the transport needs of those who, because of their disability, are unable to use public transport or their own car. The path to universal design is long. The intention of the Human Rights Convention and the Discrimination and Availability Act require equal rights for all residents of the country. Now it seems that the government will continue to spend a long time ratifying the Convention on Human Rights for the Disabled, even though it has already been signed by 99 countries, including four Nordic countries. This case is probably an example of the fact that the rights of people with disabilities to live a life of their own remain based on unfair and inadequate schemes that depend on the address of residence and local priorities. The Progress Party has made many proposals to bring about better arrangements throughout the country, for which we have not received a majority. I'm sorry. But once again I take up the proposal of the Advance Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1641	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1644	I shall not repeat what other speakers have said about the importance and need of the TT regime. I just want to say that I believe that we have gradually come to look at the TT system in a slightly different way than what was originally thought, a system that would compensate for the lack of collective use. I think more and more of us, including the parties here on the Stortinget, see that there is a system that many people depend on to be able to operate in an approximate normal way. Our starting point in all planning policies must be that no one should get more than others, but someone needs little more to get the same opportunities that other people have. It's a starting point that I think the committee will eventually agree on. So it's like that in politics that there's two things to do. Sometimes you have to point out how little the others do, and sometimes you have to help make things happen. I want to say that in this case I think we can actually help get something to happen. Therefore, I think it is also very good that the organisations, when they were in contact with the committee, underlined that they wanted more attempts in several states, and that they consider it a crucial step in the right direction. That's why Right is involved, but of course with a very clear intention that this should end up in a national system that is good and satisfying to everyone, including. I agreed to promise the organisations that required it before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1653	It's fun for once to agree entirely with an article from Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. Many of us have been working on the TT system for many years. It's a prerequisite for equality for everyone in society, and it's a long way to go. It's about, as someone has been up here and said, universal design. Obviously, it does. But on the transport side, universal design will not capture the need for everyone. In addition to universal design, there must be door-to-door transport. That's what we're talking about right now. I am very pleased with the initiative that the organisations have taken to set up such a pilot scheme. The tests on service and ordering routes have been carried out, and it has in a way captured the part of TT transport that is about those who do not need door-to-door transport, but still need adapted arrangements. In my home country, Tolga has been such an experimental community. They have had hourly departures on the order route from all parts of the municipality to the centre. It has worked fantastically well and has caught up with a lot of users who are otherwise in the TT system in Hedmark, because in Hedmark there are many who are in the TT system, many more than in almost all other counties. But what has been missing there is just the attempt that goes on door-to-door transport. It's very important that we get it started. That is why the Committee has asked the government to do this, and I know that the Council of State is also concerned about it. That is why I would like to ask the Right and the Christian People's Party to consider submitting their proposal to the government without a vote of reality. There is no desire from us to vote down such a proposal. We work intensively to get this done. This is precisely the fact that organisations have now expressed their willingness to also participate in identifying the type of legislation to delineate users, who should be in such a scheme, and who, if any, should have an extended service route, is very important. It's pretty difficult, because of course there are a lot of people who want a TT order and have it better than today. It's a very important thing. Several have been concerned with how different this is in many states, and it is. It's precisely because, as the representative of Røe Isaksen had to say, this was initially a substitute for a public service that could not be used. In Oslo, public transport is good. In Hedmark, it's mostly the school bus that goes in very large parts of the county. That means there's not so much to replace. So in practice, you've kind of deviated a little bit. And when the distances get larger, it's clear that the sum that you have at your disposal is going to be small. Then the principle has also been that you have to pay for the corresponding public transport would cost. It also makes it look like you're paying a lot different, but it might have a logical explanation. That's the principle I think you're going to have to stick to. I sincerely hope that we get these trials started, because that's very important. Several have been up here and explained how important this is. I've thought quite many times about what it would have been like to be in a situation where you're completely generous to others who give you some good things, which allows you to make decisions like us others take as the greatest of course in our lives. I think I would have been pretty hard to deal with, to say it right out, if I were to live under such conditions. Finally, with the ratification of the UN Convention. I fully agree that this should happen, but I also think it is right to point out that there are a lot of countries that both sign and ratify without having – in that sense – laid down some of the national legislation in place to realise the intention of the Convention. In Norway, we have a completely different principle. We're going to have all the pieces of the law in place before we ratify, so that the law is fully consistent with the convention before we do. The point that remains now is to implement the part of the protection law adopted by the Storting. When in place — and it should be put in place quite quickly — this should be possible. So this is about Norway in advance of many of the countries that have ratified this convention, but I still agree with the representative that it is time for us to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1670	It is an important principle that everyone must have the opportunity to live active lives. To get to that, there are more conditions that need to be in place. A good TT transport is one of these arrangements. There are significant challenges in developing national guidelines for TT transport in a country such as Norway. Oslo, which has the best TT system in the country, is often referred to, but Oslo is in a special position in terms of both population density, TT users, distances and general collective services. For the Central Party, it is important that one finds the good, locally adapted arrangements, and it is important that it is a local responsibility to solve these tasks. This is why this is also an example of why our eternal struggle to strengthen the county economy is important. It is important that TT transport is a municipal responsibility and that one should be able to see this in conjunction with both ordinary public transport and other transport systems that may exist. In order for the TT system to function optimally, we rely on it being used by the group for which it is intended. It is today that this is not the case in many cases and many states. During the consultation, it was found that many of the users of the scheme today are elderly without disability – 70 pst. over 70 years and 90 pst. above 60 years of age. Very many of these do not need a door-to-door transport, as the TT system is. It is therefore positive that users’ organisations – the Norwegian Blind Association and the Community Organisation for Disability – agreed during the consultation round to contribute to a process where one should point out which of today’s users has a real need for door-to-door transport. In this way, I believe that the test system that has been in place in several states since 2009 is interesting and important, and you have to learn from it. That is why I look forward to the evaluation of the experiment, and I believe that there is reason to wait for this evaluation before deciding what changes to make in today's system and what to do in the future TT scheme. Creating active lives and facilitating active lives for as much as possible is about universal design. It's about a good collective offer. It's about custom-made schemes, like TT transport. In order to cope with this, it is also important that the economy of the county councils be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1683	Universal design and accessibility are one of the main objectives of the current national transport plan. It shall also be one of the main objectives of the forthcoming national transport plan. We are now working on a big message to be submitted in the spring of 2013. The principle of universal design is also enshrined in equality and discrimination laws. Universal design requires the comprehensive transport system at national level, both infrastructure and means of transport. This will allow more people to benefit from transport without assistance or assistance. There are many challenges. It will take time, but we are on the right track in this work. Today I have been shown the first Flirt train, the first of up to 50 new trains that will be in service from 2012. They are – it should just be lacking – universally designed. However, implementation of universal design will not provide satisfactory transport solutions for all groups of disabled people. There will still be a need for a specific TT offer for some users. Municipalities are responsible for local public transport. The TT offer is part of this responsibility. Local public transport is a system in which the county authorities themselves, on the basis of their own priorities, design the supply with regard to both quality and scope. Good local economy is therefore the most important contribution from the government to ensure the best possible services for users of e.g. TT arrangements. The government has strengthened the local economy and thus facilitated a better service provision. The Committee has identified large differences between county municipalities in terms of TT supply. The Committee also believes that it is necessary to strengthen reporting by county councils in order to better understand actual supply. When each county makes its own priorities between good purposes, one cannot avoid differences. The same is true of ordinary collective services. In its guidelines for the TT scheme, the Ministry of Transport has stressed that county municipalities design the supply so that it takes into account the different needs of the different groups of authorised users. This is followed up and the county authorities differentiate the supply between the different user groups. I understand that users feel that the offer is not good enough. When it comes to reporting, of course I'll look at it. However, I would like to stress that every two years the Ministry has produced a comprehensive report on the status of the TT scheme in all counties. The report provides information on each county when it comes to user authorisation legislation, the content of the transport supply, the characteristics that users have to pay, the use of resources, etc. The reports are sent to each county and are thus a basis of knowledge for each county in the development of its TT system. The status reports will also be sent to the organisations representing the user groups. Collective transport services are only provided for part of the combined transport. A substantial part actually stands for the passenger car. The users are financing this themselves. In this sense, TT transport, which is at the heart of the mobility of its users, may have interfaces with social policy measures in the form of social welfare schemes aimed at compensating for additional transport costs. As the Committee points out, the municipal responsibility for local public transport, with its own priorities, does not prevent the State in the collective field from setting up with ear-tags the promises, as part of the cooperation with each county municipality, to experiment or strengthen the collective supply where this is seen in conjunction with other measures. There has also been a three-year trial in some states, and it is being evaluated. The KID project, a community service in the districts, is a scheme where 14 counties are now trying out different schemes. Hedmark is the county that most clearly includes the disabled in its collective arrangements in the districts. The counties double the funds made available by the State. You can exchange experiences more than what is being done today. Let me say in the end: in the context of the 2012 state budget, I would like to assess whether a pilot scheme can be established in some county municipalities where the TT supply of certain groups is expanded, as requested by a majority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1707	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1710	Governments talked a lot about future collective arrangements, and she mentioned among other things. These Flirt trains are coming. Will the Council of State ensure that the stations are adapted to the new trains so that the disabled can use them? Will there be an obligatory escalation plan in terms of universal design in public transport stations? I understand that it is important for the county to continue to be responsible for the TT system: Is it so that it is most important for the government – or is it just the centre party that believes it – that the county community should have something to do with, and to make a decision on how much the inhabitants should get from the good, or is it the user needs that need to be put into focus here, that equivalent arrangements should be made for the inhabitants of the whole country, so that their needs are met in an equally good way? What's most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1717	I will try to answer all three questions. The government will return to its budget for 2013 with a plan for the future station structure. To question No. 2: Of course, if the Flirt train is to be a real offer, it must be so that the disabled can also get on and off the train. That means that there must be station improvements here. So there's a question of what's the most important thing. It's the single person in society that's the most important thing. In this context, there is for some a door-to-door offer to participate in the same line in society. We actually mean that the county councils are a very good practitioner to get to, not least because of the boundaries that the county council represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1728	Now the Council of State concluded very nicely that she was absolutely sure that this would be done by the county councils in a very good way. The experience that we have so far shows us the exact opposite. We've gone through all the big – extremely big – differences that are from state to state. Users living in non-priority counties have a terrible offer. How can the Council of State believe that the states will be better able to deal with this in the future, when they have demonstrated over so many years that they are not at all concerned with the needs or equality of users, but only with the economy and how they prioritise money for other purposes? There's nothing I can see that points to it. Or are you going to add a minimum standard for what is to be given, and then you're going to be able to get freedom beyond that to give something better?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1733	I have underlined the task of the county council here, precisely because the country is as numerous as it is. I think there's a pretty good example of how the county councils have been doing this service. There are also several test schemes where you can share your experience with each other. I would like to refer to County Spokesman Tom Tvedt in Rogaland, who says that the most important change in order to get a good transport system for all of us probably has to be made in our heads, by those who make the decisions. Just so simple that state guidelines here would result in equivalent supply across the country! I actually think we have some examples that, in spite of state policy, the problems are solved very differently at state level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1740	Now it is the case that the Christian People's Party and the Right have a proposal here, which we can let the red-green vote against, and we can travel around and tell you that the red-green voted against a very moderate proposal from the organisations to introduce limited trial schemes as a step towards enlargement, i.e. a responsible proposal from the organisations. We are, however, parties that are busy getting something done, but we don't want to do it if it just ends up in a desk drawer in the department. So it takes a little bit, also this to turn into a transmission proposal. I'm not going to ask you about the timing of it, but I want to ask the Council of State a specific question: are there plans, and are they going to be implemented, which means that these test schemes, such as these, are going to be launched. have been proposed by the Right and Christian People's Party, and supported by a very broad majority in the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1745	I was a little quick in my post, the time went a little fast in relation to what I was actually going to end with. I thought it was important to get better door-to-door arrangements in place than those that we find many places today. I myself have good cooperation with the disabled people's organisations through a dedicated forum that is set up, where there are representatives from different levels involved, and also different organisations. So for me, the timing is the following: I want to assess, in connection with the state budget for 2012, i.e. next year, whether such a test scheme can be established. All cards are not made for that budget at this time, so I have to take it back: evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1750	I thought there was a lot of good content in the post to the Council of State, and I'm happy for it. But what I so far want to follow up on, in the extension of the representative of the Red Isaac, is what lies in all the promises that something will come. Because as far as I remember reading about previous TT treatments, I think Meltveit Kleppa – the time the representative Meltveit Kleppa – has made a proposal that was quite similar, which was about to improve the TT system. Therefore, it would have been tempting to ask: what has changed, or what is it that makes you unable to set it in motion now, when it is almost ten years since the representative Meltveit Kleppa put forward proposals to improve the TT system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1755	That's exactly what the representative here says. I was one of those who supported the proposal that was voted on in 2003 – I really believed that national guidelines were the way to go. What I've seen in retrospect is that then there may be an imminent danger that there are some people who are being deprived of a system that they have today, even though there are others who have received a better system. The proposal before us today is from the Blind Alliance. I think we're a couple of people who've seen it before. I think it's a constructive contribution from the organizations themselves. The size gets to do what they want with this, but I would have liked to see that it wasn't voted out, so I would work on it over the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1760	I heard the council say now that the greatest father knew that someone could be taken away from something they had today. If it is the case that someone, like it has also come out of the hearing, does not need this type of transport, it is probably right that they be deprived of a system, and that this is given to those who really need it, so that a person can use the system as it is supposed to. Does the Council of State not agree that that is what is important? Then I wonder, about the arrangements that we have had that apply, among other things. work and leisure trips, it lies with Nav, patient travel is now with the healthcare companies, it was earlier with Nav, the time it worked as the users thought it was best: what makes this scheme not also to be state-owned? Of course, there must be some differences between counties and counties that are adapted to the needs of both the county and the users, but having government funding that takes care of has worked very well in the other cases. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1765	Let me refer to my letter to the Committee, where I refer in the second paragraph to how a TT system will, in any case, have boundary surfaces against other schemes. It's the one. The second is that I refer in the last section to the fact that it broke with the division of responsibilities that is today between county councils and state. And of course this is a cost question. So here, there's different sides that have to be evaluated. I think that the committee has solved this very well, because they have thus highlighted a measure, an attempt, which is desired by the disabled people's organisations. I've already said that I'm going to do what I can to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1771	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1774	It's not always a person being equally satisfied with answers from state councils, but today I was. And I really think the Council of States deserves some commendation, both to be honest that we are many parties that have a history in this matter, and that she too has it, and to be willing to show the power of action. It expects the Christian People's Party now, so my signal is that we are also pleased that the proposal can be submitted, so that it doesn't vote. But from the Christian People's Party we're going to follow the case. And then it's extra good to have more quotes from the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa, so that if it doesn't come into revision, it should at least come as soon as possible. I think we're a lot of people who owe it to those people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1784	I also want to join the speech of the representative, Ropstad, and give tribute to the Minister for Transport, because I felt that the Minister for Transport said this was something she wanted to join in the 2012 state budget. So we know that the guides aren't yet created. But I feel that it's a clear intention. I'm glad, precisely because I believe a trial plan can be very important. For today's problem with the TT system, it is not adapted to those who need to use the TT system, especially young people. I feel that this system is too much designed for slightly older users, while for young people, who might want an even more active life, it is not good enough today. So I would also say that I don't believe the economic aspect of a trial plan will be as large as anyone has suggested. And then could we get a trial plan going, for example, in two or more states, in 2012, I think we'll see that a conversion of the TT system doesn't necessarily have to be that expensive, but on the other hand, be very good and not least adapt a more modern use, which I think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1793	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3130 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1811	The background for this interpellation is a case known from Finnmark in February this year. A 65-year-old man from Vadsø is a patient at Hammerfest Hospital. The patient has a diagnosis of cancer, and after a relatively short illness has been told that all hope of being cured is out. The disease is also so advanced that he does not have many days left. The patient and his family have only one wish. It's that he'll get to go home, so he can spend his last days where he's lived his life with his girlfriends. It will take a whole four days between agreeing to repatriate with the hospital until it is effective. In the NRK Nordnytt on February 22nd, you can see the features of the family in which they describe how they experienced these days, and how they feel about the health care system after this experience. We see here a family that is going through some of the most difficult days a family can get into. Many elements have been raised in the debate after the media releases. What priority should these patients have? What are the priorities for ambulance transport? Are health companies or municipalities responsible for these patients? How clear is the distribution of roles between the AMK centre, the hospital and the health company's travel agency? Were the problems simply due to climate, storm or conditions at Hammerfest airport? The questions have been many – some have also been very good – while you have largely lacked good answers. Participants in the debate have also been the parish priest in Vadsø and a number of people who can tell that this cannot be dismissed as an isolated case. The parish priest tells us that he often meets people who think they have experienced unworthy conditions in meeting the health care system. After the matter was discussed in the media, a number of people, both patients and relatives, with similar and similar experiences, have also made contact to tell their story. It makes me pretty sure this is not an isolated case, but something you should look at more carefully. Health policy is essentially aimed at saving lives and ensuring better health and quality of life. When this is ruled out, there is often a need to relieve treatment as an alternative. Our effective and treatment-oriented health care system is then tested. It's also in the care of the seriously ill and dying, as well as how the health services view the relatives, society shows some of its qualities. Relieving treatment requires an overall view of human physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs. This requires special competence, wisdom and accountability of employees. Relieving treatment aims to provide the patient and the family with the best possible quality of life during the patient’s last lifetime. This can be achieved through the prevention and relief of physical symptoms, together with information, conversations and responses to mental, social and existential problems. The offer of relief is varied and includes both individual beds for palliation in hospitals and municipalities, palliative units in hospitals and hospitals, outpatient teams and some hospice. About 40 pst. by all those who die, the end of their lives in hospitals. That's about. 38 pst. who die in a nursing home, while the number who die in their own home is less than half of this – about 19 p.m. So it's approx. 60 pst. which selects an alternative outside the hospital. Since the problems described in the introductory part also consist in the fact that there is a long geographical distance between the hospital and the home municipality, and that this is a picture that fits in the least populous counties, it will be possible to argue that the problem will not be relevant to many patients in particular. This may lead to correctness, but the problem is the same for those involved. The fundamental problem in the Hammerfest case is also that no good answers were given to questions asked by patients and relatives, and even more importantly: it became unclear which questions health companies should answer. What kind of service did you think you were obliged to give? So here it becomes a question of how health businesses should behave in difficult situations. This is a question where the answer can be given independently of geography and population density. In St.meld. No 26 for 1999-2000, on values in the Norwegian healthcare service, it was proposed to establish clinical ethics committees at the main hospitals. The Communication states that central to these committees is the efforts to enhance ethical competence and enhance the ethical reflection of clinical work, by providing advice on solving concrete ethical dilemmas at the hospital. It shall also be added that the Storting joined in the proposal to set up such committees. Such committees could have been a useful tool in this case as well, rather than deciding how to deliver the services, focus on what to deliver. It is a paradox that such a serious case as has been described in the introduction boils down to the health service's willingness to give priority to transport in the first place, then to what ethical framework you have, so that companies provide patients and related good answers in a difficult situation. I will therefore ask two questions to the Council of State. The first is: are clinical ethics committees established in all hospitals, and how do you work, for example? in relation to discussing such matters as the one we are discussing here? The second question may be a little more specific: what does the Council of State do to enable healthcare businesses to facilitate rapid home transport and follow-up when the patient wants to end his life in his own home?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1845	Patients who are in the final phase of life must have a good service offer. It is important to ensure that dying patients are guaranteed a decent end to life, so that the recent years can be as good as possible. This applies whether the patient is in a hospital, in a hospital or in his own home. I have a great deal of understanding that the patient and the relatives in the case to which the representative Bakke-Jensen refers were disappointed that it took several days for the patient to come home the last time he had left. A general rule of Norwegian health law is that the patient himself should decide whether he wants treatment or not. To some extent, the patient has an influence on how to perform the treatment. However, there are limitations to this point because all treatments must be sound. Health companies are responsible for the Emergency Medical Communications Centres (AMK) coordinating ambulance missions. The AMK centres handle requests for emergency medical assistance and shall re-prioritize between them if necessary. Patients in need of immediate assistance shall be given priority over patients in need of transport — according to the guidelines for the use of air ambulances. These guidelines provide a basis for the use of air ambulances other than emergency medical needs. An example is the consideration of the patient’s total physical and mental stress, especially at long distances. Ambulance aeroplanes — and exceptionally ambulance helicopters — may be used to transfer patients to another hospital or to an institution where the patient belongs. The AMK centres shall always give priority to emergency medical preparedness, and if there is a convergence of tasks, the most urgent tasks must be undertaken before scheduled transport. The concrete home transport to which Bakke-Jensen refers was to be carried out with an air ambulance. I cannot go into the specific matter, but I would like to stress that weather conditions and other ongoing and ordered tasks could affect air ambulance missions. Health professionals face ethical dilemmas and difficult choices every day. Sometimes this may mean that the worst patients who can still be offered treatment are given priority. At the same time, those who coordinate transport are responsible for making ethical assessments of transport services for patients at the end of their life. The feedback I have received from regional health companies shows that the actors are stretching far to meet the needs of these patients. If practical, the patient is sent home on the same day the treatment is completed. The assumption is that the municipal care service has facilitated the care of the patient. At the same time, I would add that patients who are at the end of their life are still not prioritised in front of patients who need immediate help. Patients with incurable disease and short life expectancy will often need relieving treatment. The goal is the best possible symptom relief and quality of life for the patient and its relatives. Many patients want to spend the most time at home in this phase. Therefore, determination and home morbidity play a very important role in the home-based care of these patients. The home care provider and the care provider shall cooperate with the palliative team whenever necessary to provide good treatment and care. The palliative centre of the hospital consists of a multi-disciplinary treatment team that visits the patient at home and provides advice and guidance to hospital staff. The team is a link between primary health care and the hospital. Most healthcare companies have a large network in their municipalities, which consists of nurses with a wide range of competences in the care of cancer and relieving treatment. The provision of relieving treatment shall be organised in such a way that patients have access at all times to the assistance and competence they need. Therefore, relieving treatment, care and care requires interaction and interaction across health care levels. Almost all health businesses have clinical ethics committees, and some health companies have more. The clinical ethics committees shall contribute to a high ethical awareness of values and dilemmas and contribute to the integration of ethics into clinical practice. The Committees shall establish ethical guidelines and organise seminars for staff. They discuss issues of principle, but also issues promoted by employees, patients and relatives. Many of the cases are about seriously ill and dying patients and ethical dilemmas related to the care of these patients. The work of the clinical ethics committees is an important part of the quality and patient safety work of hospitals. This work shall continue. I assume that healthcare companies provide fast home transport when the patient wants to end his life in his own home and that they offer good relief care in the final phase of life. It also means facilitating that the patient can be at home at the end of his life – in line with the leadership we have given in this year’s mission paper, in the national cancer strategy for 2006–2011 and in the national guidelines for palliation in cancer care. Good service quality also means ensuring that the patient has a decent end to life. I want to put great emphasis on this topic in the governance dialogue with regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1875	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was soothing. Now we are in front of the big project called the Reform of Interaction, and then there will be a lot of demands again for health services to be able to do ethical reflections. The Interaction Reform states that services should be provided more closely to the user. Then we will also involve more establishments, institutions and people. A greater diversity gives us good opportunities to provide a better service. It also allows us to choose different and better adapted solutions, but it will be important to have a tool to clarify the boundaries between the individual patient’s needs and how the individual municipality or healthcare provider provides the service. Such a tool is the ethical committees. People's greetings also change so that many of those who statistically would have died of heart disease now get older and will die of cancer instead. This means that there will be other requirements for the health care system in the future. This development will also mean that we will see longer morbidities and longer mortality in the future. We should then, in the interests of patients and relatives, clarify as many of the potential lines of conflict as possible. The special thing that I have mentioned is used as an example, but the most important thing about it is to show the commitment that was created in many ways around it afterwards, and the uncertainty and despair that was created. Therefore, it is reassuring to have ethics committees, and to have that tool in relation to making good demands in the future. There is no one – at least no one I have met – who disagrees that emergency cases should be prioritised first. The bottom line of this case is the ability of health businesses to communicate difficult issues and difficult priorities. People are aware that health services have to make difficult choices. The difficult part is enough to communicate the difficult choices in a way that creates security at the same time. I don't think that happened in this situation, but I think the Council of State has now clearly communicated that you want to emphasise that part of the service in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1888	The interpellant has in many ways addressed the difficult dilemmas involved, including the challenges facing it. I am absolutely sure that everyone agrees that one of the most important things we do is to give the best care that we can, to those people who are in the final phase of life, and also to their relatives. It's hard on us, everyone who's in touch with the health system. I must also say, since the interpellant refers to a case from Finnmark, that I was in Finnmark just after I had joined as Minister of Health. I was actually very impressed by how they in Finnmark had a good interaction between the hospitals and the municipalities, and how even small municipalities had arranged it so that they had a bed for a patient who needed reliever treatment, or other follow-up, or just monitoring, because you should think that it was perhaps more difficult where you have many small municipalities and long distances than in the rest of the country. In this context, I would like to say that my experience is that health professionals are doing their utmost whether they are in large municipalities or in small municipalities, in large hospitals or in small hospitals, in order to ensure that patients are kept as well as possible. The palliative teams are of course there especially important. With regard to the Interaction Reform, this is precisely an area of importance and is particularly highlighted there, because it is an area of responsibility between the specialist health service and the primary health service. This is also an area where we want to be better – as best we can – because it is so important that we care for the patients that are at the end of life, in the very best way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1897	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this important issue. It's bad to hear about people in the final phase of life who want to be home with their neighbors, but who don't get a chance to do it. I support the interpellant in the fact that the clinical ethics committees in hospitals, and also in municipalities and hospitals, put such matters on the agenda. Not only is it about preventing such situations from occurring, but it is just as full about asking the question: What is it going to do to strengthen respect for the lives and dignity of the dying with us? – like Marie Aakre, among others is a member of the Clinical Ethics Committee at St. Olav's Hospital, in a post at Sykepleien.no. She said there that there is a need to strengthen the knowledge of relief treatment in general by health professionals in hospitals, yes, throughout the healthcare system. About a year ago, the Stortinget discussed the Christian People's Party's proposal that the government should present a life support plan to secure people in the final phase of life treatment they need. We proposed, among other things: more places for relief both in hospitals and in the municipalities, and also to set up an ambulance team for relief treatment that can come home to people who are dying. We proposed to increase the competence of health professionals for relieving treatment and also to remove the price-fixing funding for relieving treatment. Death is a natural part of life, and it must be facilitated that it can still be so. Both physical, mental, social and spiritual needs must be met. This is about seeing the whole human being. It is demanding in a busy working day at the hospital, where time pressure and demands for shorter bedtime and pressure to keep costs down are most often prominent. The Hospice Forum Norway focuses on how a medical way of thinking with a primary focus on treatment, diagnostics, professional development, research, networks of expertise, short-term stay for investigation, etc. characterises the hospitals and offers available to dying people. They believe that hospitals have a kind of technical approach and call for more human focus, as found at the hospice for the dying, where values are at the root. The dying self and the dependant must have an influence on how to spend the last time, where cooperation and co-determination must be prominent. I'm sure everyone in this room will agree on that. That is why I would like to point out once again the clinical ethics committees both in hospitals and in the municipalities. They have a very important role to play in putting this on the agenda on a regular basis. Human life is meaningful even when serious illness and suffering threaten. The core of relieving treatment is that human life is meaningful, and that when serious illness and suffering threaten, the patient can be given back both quality of life and experience of meaning with the right competent and merciful treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1914	I would also like to thank Laila Davay for the contribution and the Council of State for the contribution she made. As I said in my post, this is a problem that health care will face more and more often. I am pleased that the Council of State has been in Finnmark and that it is possible to find good local solutions. Our diverse country requires that you have different solutions, adapted to the places where people live. I experience the people in the north to be relatively robust, so there's no frailty that makes this come up. This is a matter that was handled very badly. Then it's very good to have an ethical framework. That someone looks at it in general is very good when the different municipalities, the different health companies and the different institutions are going to create good solutions for the inhabitants. You expect to have dignity in the last few days. But it's equally important for the relatives, who are going to live on, that they can spend all their time on the good memories to get through a difficult time afterwards and not get worn out by bad experiences. I am reassured that the Council of State is using the ethics committees. I am reassured that the Council of State emphasises this in the letter of assignment, and I am reassured that this is being emphasised in the future debate on health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1925	As I said in my post, there are ethics committees at least as well as all health companies, and some have more. It is also referred from health companies that the ethical dilemmas at the end of life are the most addressed by the clinical ethics committees. Not least on the basis of political support and the fact that many have addressed this, and there has also been a discussion that I have attended in the past in the United Kingdom, Norway has become a leading Nordic country in this area. But like I said, here you always have to work to get better. Developing more sites within palliative care is important. We also see the need for that, precisely because the individual should be able to choose where he or she will spend his or her last lifetime. In the vast majority of health care establishments, networks of nurses with special competence in cancer care and relief are established. These have a very good cooperation with the hospitals. But where it's not expanded, we're working on expanding. This is one of the priorities, as I said, in the context of the Interaction Reform as one of the areas that is very important because it is so important to be good at the interaction between the specialist health service and the primary health service when you are equally dependent on both.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1934	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1940	Then will be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1960	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e1968	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 2, by Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 3 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, says: ‘The government is asked to promote a legislative proposal that regulates the rules of leave also for non-organised workers.’ This proposal, in its form, is a proposal for a request and, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure, is intended to bring it up as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «Agreements to the Law on Changes to the Working Environment Act [[Law fastening of the permit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e2048	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Agreements to the Law on Changes to the Working Environment Act [[statutory of permits]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e2122	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e2130	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2 by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 3, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 3, from the Right and Christian People's Party, has been turned into a transmission proposal during the debate and is changed in line with this. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is advised to launch a pilot pilot pilot pilot pilot pilot project in selected counties, which may provide an experience basis for an improved national scheme with more coherent national legislation.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up national guidelines on the quality and quantity of TT transport as soon as possible and to propose a financing mechanism for TT transport in line with national guidelines.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the financial and administrative responsibility for TT transport is added to Nav.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e2178	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-28.ana.ud290e2326	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
