ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e26	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e29	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Law of 17 June 2005 No. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e34	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, will make a representative sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e37	On behalf of the representatives Arne Sortevik, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Götskesen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I am delighted to propose concrete measures to improve road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e42	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e45	I am delighted, on behalf of the representatives of Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself, to present a proposal for a representative on the law on amendments to Law No 17 June 2005. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e50	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e62	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kristin Halvorsen, Grete Faremo and Terje Riis-Johansen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e71	In these days, people across the country get their electricity bills in the mail, and as announced a long time ago, we've had a winter in which the electricity prices have become sky high. Already in winter 2009–2010 the Minister of Energy announced that he was concerned about the power situation this winter. Nevertheless, the only thing the Prime Minister could report in the VG on December 3rd was that he was sympathetic to those who are now considering cutting down on the Christmas gifts in order to pay the high electricity bill that could come in January. So one has been expecting this situation for well over one year and actually knows about the power situation in the five and a half years the red-green government has been running, but one has come up with fine few measures that can remedy the situation. It is still the case in the energy nation of Norway that we are proud to export gas equivalent consumption to 200 gas power plants in Europe, but that gas is to be exported to Europe, so that we can re-import the flow to operate the platforms that produce and export the gas to Europe. On the part of the opposition, proposals have been made for housing support, for strengthening Enova, among others, and the Progress Party now has a proposal to start up the mobile gas power plants and reduce the electricity charge in times of sky-high electricity prices. These are things that the government has always voted against, even though in some areas it has turned in retrospect. It is very gratifying that it is now coming after the opposition and promoting a system of strengthening housing support, but there are very many groups of the population who are nevertheless struggling. The government therefore prioritises shutting down business before considering starting up mobile gas power plants in central Norway. It says a little bit about the government's priorities. Does the Council of State have any other means to delay this winter that can help people who are now experiencing sky-high power bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e80	It would be pointless to sit on measures in a situation where the need to do what is possible to ensure access to electricity, either through increased production, energy efficiency improvement or through increased line construction, is necessary. That's why we just did it. I find that after numerous discussions in Stortinget, there is still a bit until the representative Solvik-Olsen agrees with me that we have actually spent a lot of resources on network development in Norway over the last few years, not least in Central Norway, where the situation has been most serious. We've been using record-breaking sums through Enova to get new renewable energy ahead, and we're doing more on energy efficiency than ever before. Just to take one example of some of the contexts here: we find that the representative Solvik-Olsen is occupied by the mobile gas power plants, and it has somehow become the case with large S, which by some can be seen to be the difference between wanting something and wanting nothing. Last Monday, there was an import into Norway corresponding to almost 30 of these mobile gas power plants, i.e. almost 30 times the 140 MW production produced by such a power plant. It says a little about the importance of expanding the Nordic network, that is to say expanding the possibility that the flow flows, and that we have access to energy – in Sweden, for example, when. The nuclear power stations that are down for revision and in Norway, for example, The situation is as it is now that we have had a say, a refill in Norwegian water storage plants of 100 TWh, while the normal is somewhere between 120 and 130 TWh. It's been almost 70 years since the last one was as cold as it's been this year. This means that the possibility of imports from Sweden, which have a different production and a different way of producing energy than what we have in Norway, is extremely important to address the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e89	Here the Council of State tries to mislead, because the mobile gas power plants represent 300 MW of capacity – 30 times it is 9000 MW. I strongly doubt that has been the norm for imports into Norway, but we can send written questions about this in order to be confirmed. I conclude that the Council of State does not have any new measures in addition to talking about power lines to come in 2015, as this government promised in 2005 to come in 2011. I also record that the record large appropriations have not produced any record significant effects, because the electricity price including grid rental and charges in 2010 was more than twice as high as it was in 2000. Twice as high — this is the energy cost for consumers in Norway over the last ten years in the energy nation of Norway. At the same time, we have a policy where we export the gas rather than use it in Norway. I therefore ask the Council of State once again: does the Council of State have any short-term measures that could help people? Or should everyone have to wait until 2015 before this government can deliver anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e98	There is improved line capacity, both internally in Norway and between Norway and our neighbouring countries. It's increased production. There is better use of electricity, which helps improve the energy balance in Norway and through it affects prices. A few weeks ago, we signed an agreement with Sweden to help 26 TWh enter the market by 2020. That's about 10 pst. of the consumption that we have here now. If the non-representative Solvik-Olsen believes that it is an extremely powerful measure to improve the energy balance in Norway, I disagree entirely. Statnett is now spending historically large amounts on network reinforcements, whether in-house in Norway, or which we concluded after Easter last year, improvements to the Nea–Järpstream, which is a very important link with Sweden. We've never spent more money on energy efficiency improvement, whether it's against industry, or as we did now before Christmas, to strengthen it towards households. So I totally disagree with Mr Solvik-Olsen's representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e105	There will be three follow-up questions – Oskar J. Grimstad first.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e108	In a letter dated 8 November 2010, the Council of State wrote among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The power situation in Central Norway is unsatisfactory and the government will continue to work on the measures in place to strengthen security of supply in the region. The size will be kept properly informed.’» On 29 December, the head of power supply in More and Romesdal, Svein Rødal, said that the water storage capacity is dramatically low and has not been recorded lower since 1990. He also said that the agreements with the companies about the agreed stop must now be put into service, and that the spare power plants must be started immediately after the new year. The reason is that in week 52 in 2009 the magazine filling was in electric spot area 3 at the lower edge of 60 pst. and then at the lowest in weeks 16-17 in 2010 by 11 pst. At the turn of the year now, the water magazine is in the area listed below at 41 pst. With equal consumption, this indicates that in the current year the magazine will be empty before weeks 16-17. What does the Council of State do about immediate action in this critical situation in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e120	With regard to central Norway and the current situation, the most important action taken in 2010 is to increase the capacity of the Nea–Järpstream. It was increased by 400 MW to Easter last year. This means that the import capacity of the region is significantly larger than it would otherwise have been. It is a concrete measure, an action that works, and an action that contributes to improving energy balance, improving security of supply in the region. Only in 2010 ten hydroelectric power plants were granted concessions in the region. At least eight hydropower plants were put into operation in 2010. We had a wind power project on the Outer Vakna that got about 230 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. The biogas plant in Skogn received 120 million. kr, and we have a large energy efficiency project in Norwegian Forest in Forest which was also completed. So the representative Grimstad knows that in 2010 a good basis was also laid for the rapid implementation of the most important single measure, the link between Ørskog and Fardal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e127	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e130	I will begin by wishing the Council of State a really good new year and hope that this year will bring with it large amounts of rainfall, for the benefit of Norwegian power customers and businesses, because this government has demonstrated its powerlessness for almost six years. Unfortunately, this has meant that both individuals and businesses have to pay a high price, not only economically but also in terms of uncertainty about what the future will bring about by framework conditions. This is in many ways a notified crisis. We've experienced it before, and the probability that we'll experience it again is absolutely present since the Council of State doesn't seem to have any initiative to improve this situation. We are vulnerable to changes in rainfall, and therefore it should be a goal to make ourselves less dependent on hydropower generation by building up from alternative energy resources. Therefore, the right has called for the State to contribute to the relocation of a gas power plant with clean-up out of the Mongstad area and to an area with a power loss, for example. in central Norway. So far, government and government have been negative. Have the Councils changed their minds about this during Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e138	The answer to the last one is no. Otherwise, I have to say that it is quite interesting to hear the representative Meling from the Right Party stand here and talk about a «warned crisis». It is amazing that the alarm bells did not ring when the projects in Middle Norway were started early in this millennium, without any action being taken by the sitting government. What we are doing now is repairing after the damage done early in this millennium, by starting production without any plans to follow up with the corresponding power supply. That's what we're doing. Then I hear that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party perceive that improving the infrastructure is an important measure. I'm going to repeat it over and over again, that the best thing we can do for Middle Norway is to make the flow of power get better. That is why we must put Ørskog-Fardal in place. That's what we're doing now. We got 400 new MW into the region through the Nea–Järpstream before Easter. There are concrete measures to improve the situation, but this should have been done a long time ago. The right should have thought about that before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e147	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e150	It's good that the Council of States considers itself a repairer. In response to Ketil Solvik-Olsen, the Council of State says that it has improved line capacity, increased production and improved the use of electricity. So this has not been enough, because there are sky-high power prices and sky-high power bills waiting for us all in our mailboxes. L.O. Manager Roar Flöthen has been appointed to issue requirements for magazine fillings at specified times of the year. This is a proposal that the Centre Party has submitted in the past. They have even put forward proposals to this effect in this Chamber. Is this a proposal that Minister of Energy, Mr Riis-Johansen, will promote?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e159	I think it's natural after these two years, which have been quite extreme in terms of cold on the one hand – and so on – and lack of consumption, rainfall, on the other hand, that one goes through and sees how the system has worked. On the other hand, I have already started it through two different investigation committees, which have given some interesting analyses, assessments. I believe that all these questions, including what Mr. Hemdal is addressing, are of the things we have to look at, when we have the fascination with how these two years in total have been handled. That said, it is interesting to go in and look at the relationship between imports and exports of electricity from Norway in 2010. In total, there has been a net import into Norway of about 10 %. 7.5 TWh. There's a lot of power we've got into the country, and it's based on a reciprocity between, for example. Norway and Sweden. I now see that I cannot explain when the export from Norway has taken place, but there have been two short periods in particular where it has taken place, and I will come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e166	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e169	When proposals for new skills requirements for teachers were sent to the hearing last autumn, the Minister of Knowledge stated: «Strengthened requirements for the competence of teachers will strengthen the learning outcomes of pupils. We know that there is a link between the formal competence of the teachers and the results of the students.’ The new teacher training provides more specialised teachers. Strengthened teacher competence is an important next step in ensuring Norwegian students well qualified teachers and a good school. At a young age, a minimum of 30 study credits is now proposed to teach in a subject. On the other hand, in childhood, where important initial training is taking place, with the exception of Norwegian and mathematics, there is no proposed requirement for education in the subjects in which it is taught. It may seem that pupils at childhood have become the forgotten students, because the focus on non-response is often on action in secondary and secondary education. The Minister of Knowledge is commendably concerned with early efforts to combat later non-responses. It supports the Right, but we find few traces of such thinking in the consultation on competence requirements. New research from NTNU also points to the school motivation that is already failing from the fourth grade and that lack of adapted training is an explanation. This underlines the need for teachers who know their subjects and who are able to engage early school year students. To light the spark and take care of the motivation of the younger ones, it is important that they meet teachers who know their subjects. Does the Council of State agree with the Right that it is as important that six-year-olds meet teachers with education in the subjects in which they teach, as the 14-year-olds in the 8th grade do? Will the Council of State make proposals to ensure that child-care teachers are also trained in the subjects in which they are going to teach?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e185	It is true, as the representative of Aspaker says, that the new skills requirements have been consulted. The hearing period expired on 10 January, and we are now examining the opinions that have been received. Of course, I'm open to adjusting the proposals based on the arguments that are coming. But I have to say that I react very much to the description of teachers who teach in the first stages of high school, as if they do not have competence, even though they do not have credits in the subjects in which they teach. The whole point of this is that you need different skills when teaching 5- and 6-year-olds, compared to when teaching 14- and 15-year-olds. The question of good knowledge of the subject, which is the background to the skills objectives that are now being consulted, and that they are geared towards high school, is the need for greater professional challenges, the longer you get up in the stages and at high school, while the skills you may need first and foremost when teaching 5- and 6-year-olds are to see school day as a whole. You need to be able to switch between different subjects, and you need skills to target and motivate 5- and 6-year-olds. It's not about not having competence, it's about having a different competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e192	The answer was kind of uplifting and a little discouraging. It is quite clear that with the new differentiated teacher training we have received, it is accepted that the teachers who aim for 1–7. a different content of their educational subjects in the course of training as a teacher. At the same time, these teachers come out with education in Norwegian and mathematics as compulsory, and then they have either three or four further subjects. Ergo has a professional portfolio of six subjects with him out. After all, it is quite incomprehensible that the Council of State stands here and believes that initial training does not matter — starting training in the natural sciences, starting training in body training, starting training in art and practical aesthetics — which are also important subjects in relation to training basic skills in line with Norwegian and mathematics. So I wonder, and I ask the question again to the Council of State: what's wrong with connecting the education that teachers actually have, and the qualifications to it, to make sure that the youngest students also have teachers with education in the fields?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e201	Firstly, I would like to say that the competence requirements that are now at the hearing are very demanding to be met. It's because we don't have an unlimited number of teachers with unlimited formal competence that we can choose from. In many districts and smaller municipalities it is going to be very demanding to meet the requirements we now have, including in the youth sector. So let me just go back to the challenge: isn't it right that we start with the skills requirements of youth, because that's where you need teachers who have special professional insights into the subjects you teach? At the smallest stages, it is quite essential that rivers have relatively few teachers to deal with, and that these teachers have a wide range of tools and that they can switch between different subjects. It is, in fact, a very crucial and important competence to bring with it at these stages. So that's very good professional justification that we're going forward exactly the way the hearing opinion describes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e208	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e211	I would say, as the representative of Aspaker, that the answers were both uplifting and a little depressing. I really hope that the Council of State will take this seriously and look at these requirements again. I was at a meeting in South Africa last night, and there was a discussion about skills requirements in the workplace and in the public sector. There one by one told the other that in order to carry out individual tasks they had to have professional depth in what they were going to do – and not enough with that, they also had to renew it at regular intervals. So now we're saying that those who are going to train our children, not just the first or second year of school, but up to the first seven years of school, don't need the professional depression. It is a challenge to provide enough, but it must be right – I hope the Council of State seems – to set the goal and have a desire for everyone to have the professional depression. Or how can the Council of States defend the fact that it is not important to have that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e221	There are, of course, moving transitions here between high school students and students at, let's say, 5th, 6th and 7th stages in relation to what professional challenges it is important for them to get to school. But I very much disagree that you should think of 15-year-olds and 5-year-olds as to the kind of skills their teachers need, to receive a 5-year-old or 6-year-old in the first class and to make sure that a kid gets a good start at school, is also about having relatively few adults to deal with, having a good knowledge of the teacher, having security and getting different challenges at different times. This will increase the need for professional competence in the fields over the years. Let me just underline once again that it is very difficult to meet the competence requirements that we have now sent out at the hearing. It's going to take years before we get there, and then it's either way that it's most meaningful to start at youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e230	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e233	Professor John Hattie from New Zealand is one of the most competent in what works in school. We know that he has published a study of 800 meta-studies involving between 25 and 30 million students. It is quite clear that one of the most important things affecting the results at school is precisely the teacher's competence, both in the field of education and in teaching. You don't learn didactics in high school, you only learn it in higher education. Then I agree with the Council of State that what the Council of State has presented is, of course, demanding, and it is probably demanding to extend it, but does the Council of State believe that it is an objective that teachers should also have professional and didactic competence in the subjects in which they teach in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e240	No, I mean, in high school, from 1 to 4. Steps – it is essential that students have relatively few teachers to deal with. If you're going to have this kind of skill requirement for the smallest students, that means they have to have a lot of professionals to deal with. It's hardly the competence you need first and foremost in terms of 1 to 4. Steps, and I think Hattie would agree with me on that. Then is the question of when to need professional skills to arouse students' interest, to provide professional challenges, to follow up in the field. There is, of course, a moving transition here, but I think it makes sense to start this at the youth stage. It is going to be very demanding to be able to recruit the number of formal teachers that we are now describing in this hearing opinion, and that must be the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e247	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e250	I hope I didn't talk about the five-year-olds was a warning that they are going to school. Some of the main problem in what we're discussing here now is that we've specialised in education, but in some areas maybe the general teacher would have needed it out in school anyway. The Christian People's Party is a follower, and we have supported the skills requirements that the Storting has asked for, but it must be possible to implement these requirements throughout the country. Small or small-scale schools may have problems with having enough teachers, or they may need to provide part-time jobs in order to meet the skills requirements of the consultation. That means we can get A and B schools, and there can be small districts and small communities being hit by it. Does the Council of State see that this could be a greater threat to public school than to privatisation? What will the Council of State do to prevent us from getting permanent B-schools out in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e259	I fully agree with Dagrun Eriksen that this is the challenge in relation to the competence requirements that have now been issued, because Norway has many smaller schools. That's about. One third of schools in Norway have fewer than one hundred students. It is very demanding to ensure that you have a teacher’s competence in each school that is able to meet the qualifications we are now setting. That is the background for slow progress in this area, so that we ensure that there is good quality in schools in the districts as well. It will be the major challenge we face in implementing the competence requirements we now have at the hearing. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e264	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e267	I have to admit that personally I think that the school debate is very frustrating for the time being, because everyone agrees that competence is most important. Everyone agrees that the teacher is most important. Everyone can hold great talks about how great the teacher's competence is. But what we experience is that in the political priorities of the government, they are not the most important. That's not what gets prioritised. When the Council of State sent out 148 circulars, regulatory changes and legal changes in its time, that was not what was prioritised. There's completely different things the council thinks it's important to spend time on. When will there be a connection between the rhetoric of the Council of State and what the Council of State actually does? When are we going to realize that skills are of course just as important for a 5-year-old as for a high school student and a high school student? And if we're going to be able to raise the Norwegian level of education, we're going to have to invest in continuing education in order to get to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e272	I am very pleased that the representative Trine Skei Grande has been so concerned about the time spent in school lately. Because it was in June last year that I made a big message to the Stortinget, for which Trine Skei Grande is the case rapporteur, and for which they are now beginning to deal. This is a very important question for people in School-Norway, and we can do a lot in government, but also in the municipalities, who own the schools, and in the individual schools to be more effective in time use. So I look forward to good cooperation as Stortinget now finally starts processing that message. It's not like the number of laws and regulations has increased. In the previous, bourgeois four-year period, there were far more laws and regulations than in the next, red-green four-year period, if it makes sense to count the number of laws and regulations. And it doesn't. We have to think carefully. With regard to the competence of teachers, continuing education, we have never put so much effort into it as we do now. But the big challenge there is how to ensure the relationship between continuing education and training, because we are concerned that we should build formal competences on it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e281	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e285	My question goes to Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen. There are many people who go with excited steps to the mailbox to see if the first record electricity bill of the year has arrived. We have now had two consecutive winter seasons with a strained power situation, and therefore high power prices. Therefore, the Christian People's Party requires the government to present during this year a plan that can prevent us from getting sky-high electricity prices because of power shortages. Because it's not recorded as low water levels in Norwegian magazines in the last 20 years as what we have now. And with normal rainfall and normal temperature it can take two years before we get up to a normal level in our water storage units again. It's our current customers who get to taste the consequences of the lack of political action of the red-green government. The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, who is currently sitting in the Chamber as Councillor Kristin Halvorsen, said to NTB during the previous power crisis, in 2002–2003, that: ‘What’s happening now is that the coldest right-wing policy is going right into the living rooms of people’. Good political rhetoric, but not so many politically feasible proposals, were promoted, not at that time, nor in retrospect. We know that the Council of State will have increased line capacity and increased production. That's what State Council Odd Roger Enoxen said in 2005, and it's been mantra ever since. My question to the Council of State is: I think a lot of power customers are wondering what the council will do in the short and long term beyond increased line capacity and increased production, because a cold right wind won't the red-green government have into the living rooms of people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e301	The start of the post of representative Hemdal is good in the sense that it takes into account the circumstances surrounding the situation that we now have. And it's probably not so strange that the representative says, because the Christian People's Party has also handled similar situations a few years ago. One sees that there is a long-term, good policy that is the most important contribution to avoiding it happening again. There is no doubt that we in Norway have neglected over time in this area. We've built too little renewable energy, we've built too little power lines, and we haven't been good enough to use our power more efficiently. And then the representative may want some other answers, but the reality is that it is about the three conditions that the energy balance in Norway is designed. So I agree that it's important when the situation is like it is now, with extremely low levels of water in the magazines, high electricity prices and high electricity bills coming to people, that you go in and look at what you can do to help those who have problems. That's exactly what the government is doing. That's exactly what was presented before Christmas, both by increasing the housing support to help people actually pay their bills, and by almost tripling the efforts of Enova, to give people the opportunity to make good energy conversions in their individual homes. There are concrete instruments to help people both pay bills and get lower power bills. In addition, it is announced today that the NVE is now proceeding with a consultation process on a regulation where a faster roll-out of the AMS gauges is being carried out, not least in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e308	Yes, the Christian People's Party and the Bondevik II government dealt with a similar situation in 2002–2003, and the Christian People's Party at the Minister of Oil and Energy Steensnæs presented ten concrete proposals eight months after there were the big fights here in this Chamber. We were supposed to have green certificates in place in 2006, and we know the story – 2012. The lines of Bergen and the force lines of Middle Norway put Einar Steensnæs in place in connection with this message. We know the story, and we know that the West rose up against the government during the summer. And then we see what these four samples deliver in a few weeks. It does not help with the two concrete proposals presented by the government before Christmas. It's too little. So my challenge to the Council of State is: will the Council of State be involved in creating a comprehensive plan for energy and climate during this year in relation to the power prices we now see?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e315	Firstly, not so long ago, I announced that we are launching a comprehensive sample work that is just about to focus on energy balance, power balance, in the long-term perspective. It is important to ensure that we have a good policy in this area in the future. So I've just also said what we've done on the very short term to address the challenges that individuals have related to power prices and the energy situation now. And then we have the medium-term phase that's in between here. We've actually presented a plan there. We've presented a plan that's about 40 billion. kr – 40 br. kr — on net reinforcements in Norway in the future, such as Last year resulted in a strongly improved situation in Central Norway related to the network. We have a plan that goes far beyond what the Bondevik II government did to get new renewable energy going through Enova. We're going to spend almost two billion dollars. kr on that, and so we have done what the Bondevik government has not been able to do, to get an agreement with Sweden on green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e322	There will be three follow-up questions – first Rigmor Andersen Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e325	In More and Romesdal, it's like we've heard several times, power shortages and sky-high power prices, that worry the power customers, that worry the business community, that worry the industry. We can't live with this anymore, and I think it's just about time before we get new torches and actions against lack of action. We now need an obligatory plan to ensure security of supply – a plan that should open up the construction of new gas power plants in Frenna with day-to-day clean-up requirements, and where the cost of CO2 clean-up is charged by the State. The most important thing: guarantees must also be provided for the completion of power lines from Ørskog to Fardal by 2015. This is urgent. Does the Council of State share the views of the Christian People's Party in these matters, and can he guarantee the completion of Ørskog-Fardal by 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e335	I think my commitment to building power lines is well known. It also applies to Ørskog-Fardal. I believe that it is an extremely important line to get in place, and my ambition is to get it in place in 2015. Then the representative is well aware that we have just started a two-part process: we go in and start sub-processes related to the least controversial sections of this line, while we have asked Statnett to make further concession requests on those parts of the line where there is more discussion – more dispute – about the specific line selection. It gives us an opportunity both to get started and at the same time to get a good decision-making base for the most controversial areas, which means that I believe we are now in a phase that is very constructive with a view to achieving this line in order to improve energy supply in Middle Norway, and not least in Moor and Romesdal, where it is the most critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e342	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e345	I'm afraid we're not going to get into this debate anymore as long as the Minister of Energy keeps insisting on a lack of memory. I've been running energy policy for five and a half years now in Stortinget. We had this debate last year, we had it in the previous year, we had it in 2006, and we had it in 2005. All the projects that the Council of State is now boasting of this government coming into operation have also been scrapped off in all five and a half years. The power line to Central Norway is not something that today's State Council invented. It was something that the State Council of Enoxsen boasted of in the fall of 2005. The power line that has now been opened from Sweden to Norway was the Bondevik government that launched, but it was not the Stoltenberg government that took the initiative. But I am very happy that it has been realized. Green certificates were to be put in place in 2006, but due to the government's internal wrangling of hydropower in or out of the licence market, there was no consensus. Now it's going to be in place in 2012 with hydropower inside. In the class struggle on 24 August 2006, Ola Borten Moe said that the most important measures we have to combat a power crisis in 2006 are new power lines. Does the council see him talking about old things?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e360	It will be an interesting exercise if the measures taken are due to processes that have started a few years before the time and the measures to be implemented are uninteresting because they arrive on time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e365	They're exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e371	We have to choose what kind of rhetoric a goes into the discussion with. I believe that both the implementation of projects and the adequate progress of projects in progress are an important part of pursuing a good energy and power policy, and bringing forward new plans, delivering concrete projects to be implemented, is an important part of pursuing a good energy and power policy. And that's exactly what we're doing. We now have the concrete solutions to improve energy flows in Norway, and we have plans for new projects to contribute to a better flow of energy in Norway than it is now, because the situation today is not good. But I am absolutely sure that also the representative Solvik-Olsen sees that building power lines does not take six months. It actually takes ten years for the plans to be put in place until the project is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e378	The point is they've been exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e383	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e386	I note that the Council of State chooses to focus on what the opposition has done and has not done many years ago, rather than focusing on the challenge that we power customers and business face in relation to high power prices. It has been rejected by the representative of both the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, so I will not go further into it. I choose to be constructive in relation to what can be done further, and I hope the Council of State is too. Norway is an integral part of a Nordic market, and this means that conditions in the energy production of other Nordic countries have a direct impact on the electricity price at home. How active is the Council of State in its dialogue with the other Nordic energy ministers? And the Council of State will use its contact surface to influence e.g. the Swedes to introduce the same rules for time-limited maintenance periods as they have in Finland, i.e. winter time does not allow for scheduled maintenance and other types of work that could lead to reactor shut-down and subsequent high prices, inter alia. in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e393	I agree that this is a constructive question, because I believe that the common Nordic energy market is a key to what we are now talking about. The fact that we have different ways of producing energy, and that we – I was saying – also help each other in crisis situations, is good for Sweden, that's good for Norway, and that's also good for other Nordic countries. When it comes to dialogue with primarily Sweden, I think it's very good. Maud Olofsson and I are talking. We have an open channel, and the very question that the representative Meling here raises regarding the revision of nuclear power stations in Sweden, was one of the issues that was on our common agenda in spring. We also had calls by phone about this this summer. I was assured through it that Maud Olofsson's commitment to avoid having a similar situation in the autumn of 2009 was very strong. Fortunately, the Swedish nuclear power plants are now up in a production that I believe today is 96–97 p.m. of installed power, and there's something completely different and much better than what we saw last year. It's necessary, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e400	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e403	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Just after the Minister of Knowledge took up his position more than a year and a half ago, she said that the fight against bullying was her main concern. We in the Progress Party had been concerned about this for a long time, and we were pleased that the government after five years with the Swedish Minister of Knowledge also saw the importance of this now. Since then, in the Progress Party, we have put forward several proposals for measures that would have both prevented bullying and provided better legal certainty for those students who experience bullying in school everyday life. All of these have been voted down. During this long period of time, the Minister of Knowledge and the Government have taken one action in this fight, namely that the state has to supervise the training law § 9a, the psychosocial environment of the students. In the last week, TV 2 has highlighted a very special case from a high school in Northern Ireland. A boy has been subjected to severe harassment and bullying over a long period of time, without intervention by school staff, school owner or school manager. In an attempt to stop this, the parents contacted the county council to get help to ensure both that the son would release this bullying, and that his legal security was safeguarded. The county replied by convening a meeting where the parents were presented with a contract. In this contract, they were offered a six-digit cash sum against the case being put to death, or as the mother herself said, they would keep their mouths shut about the matter in the future. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think this is an acceptable way to solve such challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e416	I agree with the representative Hanekamhaug that the effort against bullying is something that must be taken very seriously and worked with every day in Norwegian school. That's why I've had a high level of commitment in this area. We have now been given an overview by the staters of the most serious bullying cases to gain more knowledge about them. There are more frequent conflicts between students and teachers than in other types of bullying, and they can go over time without being able to resolve the situation. It is also the case that we have a mission out there, which the University of Oslo is now carrying out on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge, to review the legislation and see if it is good enough, and whether there is a need for a student ombudsman function that can support parents and students in this kind of situation. We'll get your position for the summer. So here's the significant pressure and activity in the area. With regard to this particular matter, we are well aware that the county of Nordland knows about it and has taken initiatives towards the county council. It has been given high priority by the county council. This type of case may be brought before the county council, but the county council can also carry out its own supervision, i.e. control the schools — the secondary school in this context — to see what the facts are and help solve them. Some comments besides this, I do not want to give at this point, because I know only the details of the matter through what has come up in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e425	The Minister of Knowledge said that most of the conflicts are between teacher and student. Then I will show that the Advance Party has earlier focused on teachers like bullying, and made suggestions in connection with it. We hope that it can also be evaluated in the future. At the same time, I would like to point out that the pupil ombudsman function is also a proposal for action we have promoted in the past, which was voted down. But I hope that this means that when we promote it again, it will now be supported. When it comes to this matter, the Minister of Knowledge stated that it is given high priority from the county. However, there has also been an internal letter in this case showing that the county was aware that the county municipality was going to offer this contract to the parents. My question is then: What does the Minister of Knowledge think that legal progress on the part of the state will be in this situation, when it has been found that the county actually knew that this contract would be offered to the parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e432	First, it's not that most bullying is between teacher and student, but the most serious bullying issues that haven't found a solution, the county officials report more often between adults at school and students than between student and other kinds of things that are easier to solve. It's not so strange that that kind of conflict is quite demanding to deal with. Nevertheless, it is important that they be solved, because it may be an extra burden for students if they experience that they are adults, which should be stopped in relation to the actions being carried out. I think I just have to show you my first answer in this case. As far as the procedure is concerned, it is in any case the county that the parents can complain to, it is the county that is responsible for looking at the matter, and that is from where we have to take it further now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e439	Three follow-up questions have been asked – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e443	I am glad that the Council of State says that bullying has to be worked on every day, and that the answer is not to sweep the matter under the carpet with a generous payment, but that it may not be acceptable. Rather, the answer is to make those who contribute to bullying responsible, and – as ill as I would say – those who ignore bullying. It is, as the Council of State itself is concerned, that the County Council is not just a Board of Appeal. On the contrary, there has been broad political agreement in this Chamber, and the Council of State itself has stressed the previous supervisory role of the State. In our opinion in this room, it has been the most important measure by the government in the fight against bullying. So I would like to say that the supervisory authority in this case does not necessarily have – or to remove this matter: does the Council of State now wish to clarify something in relation to how one wants the supervisory authority and the county work to be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e450	I would like to take a closer look at how the supervisory authority of the county council in this type of case might develop further, but we now have extensive supervision of the learning environment in both 2010 and 2011. It's on a general level. If it comes, for example. complaints from parents in bullying cases are the responsibility of the county to address such cases and are responsible for carrying out supervision on its own initiative. It's also the statesmen who are the source that we now have a better overview of serious bullying, the issues that might look like the matter being brought up here, where the parents struggle to reach, and struggle to get a solution. We now have better knowledge of that. But we have to make sure that we get better knowledge of the things that are. I have nothing concrete to report now in relation to whether there will be any changes in the functioning of the county. But this specific matter has the County know and follow-up from its side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e457	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e460	Bullying is a very serious threat to the students' learning environment. Had it been that the story from Northern Ireland about students' bullying was unique, it might not have been so dangerous. But it's more like there's a story in the range of many, and it's quite clear – no matter what the council here says in relation to the role of the county council – that this is a system that doesn't work. From serious law enforcement in Norway, an alarm has been issued because they believe that the law does not work properly. You have tried to bring the case to justice, but you can't fix them, you don't get to judge what's obviously gross, ugly bullying in Norway. My question to the Council of State is this: In the review and evaluation now under way, there is also an assessment of whether sanctions can be imposed in relation to this law, and when can the Stortinge have a proposal for a new law that clarifies and clears up the unsustainable situation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e469	The reason why I have asked for a review of both the law and whether there is a need for more support for parents and students in this kind of situation is that we have so far no cases from the court where those who have experienced bullying have won over to the public authorities. It can put us on track that legal certainty is too bad for students who are being bullied. That is why the University of Oslo has been given this assignment. They come with their assessments of the law and any ombudsman function for the summer. When that investigation is available, of course, I follow up the recommendations that come from there. But this is a situation that we have been aware of and that we have taken action in relation to. We have more knowledge about bullying now than we had before, and we're going to get more knowledge, because we've asked for a special study of the student survey. We're also going to make a renewal of Manifesto against bullying, where we invite locals to be partners in the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e474	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e477	For every day that goes with these evaluations and reviews, there are students who experience that everyday life is filled with bullying. In an article in the evening post before the weekend, we could read that the parental committee for primary school reported that last year they received 56 enquiries from desperate parents who felt that they could not pass through to the school or the school management in connection with bullying. I know the county manager has a problem with this, but it's not like that when you're sitting around the dinner table like a desperate family and you feel like you can't get through the principal's office, that you think: hey, we're calling the countyman! That's why I remember the proposal that the Christian People's Party has repeatedly promoted, namely getting a local bully, a place where you can turn when you're in despair, when the school is part of the problem and not part of the solution, and which can also have a driving role, so that the anti- bullying work in school is actually done. Will the Council of State now take this proposal seriously and bring a case to the Stortinget about such a bullying agent?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e484	It is on my initiative that we now have more knowledge of bullying. It is on my initiative that this investigation has gone to the University of Oslo. And we're considering different measures. When the Parental Committee for Primary School receives 56 enquiries of this nature in one year, there are often very serious cases. But I'm in doubt if it's local bully who can help them first and foremost, because these parents will live in many different types of municipalities. I may have more faith in a central instance for the kind of things that we know have often gone a long way in the system, where the parents feel that they have met the wall, not reaching out etc. That's why this investigation contains questions about how to imagine an ombudsman function, perhaps related to the Children's Ombudsman, but where the parents in the most serious cases can get professional help on how to proceed, because we know that this is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e491	And then we're going to raise just one last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e494	On the NRK website, on December 30, we read that Norway is planning to send Norwegian forces to a United Nations military operation in Sudan. State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Espen Barth Eide, confirms in the case that the government has concrete plans to send Norwegian soldiers to Sudan, saying: ‘Norway is expected to contribute if asked by the United Nations.’ Norway’s commitment to Sudan, in particular former Minister of Assistance Hilde Frafjord Johnson’s key role in the 2005 peace agreement, makes it natural for Norway to continue to be strongly present and to contribute both politically and economically. Norway is, as we know, heavily involved in Afghanistan and will be so for a long time to come. In a lecture in Oslo Military Society on 10 January, the Minister of Defence confirmed that our contribution will be at the same level in 2011 as in 2010. The wear and tear on the personnel, especially in the Army, and the general lack of resources in the Defense cause the Right to believe that military participation in Sudan is now out of date. In connection with the presentation of the budget last autumn, the general inspector of the Army said it very clearly: either the level of ambition in foreign operations needs to be reduced or much more employment has to be done. In the lecture on 10 January, the Council of State also recognised that there must be a balance between foreign tasks and capacities in order not to confuse the Army. Former State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Espen Barth Eide said in an interview with New Time 21 May last year: ‘Participation in international military capacity operations requires a long planning horizon. For Norway, shortages of personnel are a major challenge in this context.’ For the right, it is important to stress that large foreign policy ambitions where defence is intended to contribute cost money and personnel. The government has sent mixed signals about Norway's participation in Sudan. Can the Council of State now cancel or confirm the existence of concrete plans for Norwegian military participation in Sudan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e515	I am very pleased with Sudan's attention on this issue. The Norwegian Government and various Norwegian civil organisations have had attention around and help to Sudan through many channels over many years. Even I have had the pleasure of running the Norwegian People's Aid Board, which has been central to South Sudan for many years. Norwegian military are already participants in today's UN operation. We're contributing about 20 staff officials, and they're making an important effort. We have a close focus on the situation in Sudan, not least the referendum that took place a few days ago is central to further development in Sudan and a possible division of the country. We want to follow developments closely, including in dialogue with the United Nations on what may be needed further. It is not yet clear whether there will be a UN operation in Sudan, even after any division. What will then be an appropriate contribution will of course also be the subject of discussion, not only from Norway but also from other countries of the international community. We do not exclude a contribution from Norway. We are very concerned about finding out what kind of contributions are most appropriate in a country that also lacks infrastructure — structure in very many areas, including security policy. So it's too early to warn that a contribution might look like this or something, but we want a continuous dialogue, not least with the United Nations – and with other countries – on what might be an appropriate and proper contribution, if that becomes the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e523	It was obviously not too early for the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide to announce that the government is now working with concrete plans for how Norway is going to contribute militarily to a UN operation in Sudan, and that is what my question was about. I am fully aware that we have 20 staff officers in UNMIS – and they have been there for a long time – but what is now being discussed is the larger military contribution with more soldiers, which we may have to contribute to a UN operation. I want to repeat what I said, namely that as the situation is in the Norwegian defence today because of our strong commitment to Afghanistan, and because we have great challenges in filling up those posts and getting the wear and tear down on the personnel, it is inappropriate for the Right to provide its support for a military contribution to the UN regime in Sudan now. Telemark battalion lacks about one troop in each company, and the situation is similar for the Armor Battalion – the two perhaps most important strengths we have for foreign missions. So the situation does not suggest Norway going in there now, and I again ask the Council of State to confirm or confirm whether there are concrete plans from the Norwegian side now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e528	There are no concrete plans for a larger military contribution in Sudan in 2012, precisely on the basis of the time it takes to make a good contribution and, as the questioner points to, the challenges we face, not least in Afghanistan. It is also important for us to listen to what Sudan and Sudanese people need, and also in the dialogue with other countries, we are trying to apply for possible cooperation solutions, where Norway can contribute to such a cooperative approach. And once again to security sector reform: I believe that the development of Sudan will require both systematic, structural and institutional support on an equal footing with and in addition to any purely military contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e535	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e538	In my opinion, this situation requires the government to clean up internally, because one communicates far different from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and now from the Council of State in the Ministry of Defence. State Secretary Barth Eide gives a clear expression when he says that Norway is eager to restore participation in military UN operations, with reference to Sudan. Then, with regard to the Defense itself and their ability to take on such an operation already today, there are touring tours that are far beyond NATO's norm, and you are in a situation where you don't have free capacity at all. Can the Council of State tell the Stortinget and perhaps also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where we have free capacity in the field of military foreign operations? Can the Council of State refer to a single leading figure in the Defence Force recommending that Norway participate at level with military forces up to 200 personnel in Sudan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e543	We have a very high level of defence in Norway, which makes a wonderful effort both in Afghanistan and in other international operations. I'm impressed by what our soldiers are able to do, and the ability they have to do problems in a good way. However, any contribution to international operations will be carefully prepared, and contributions will be put together in such a way that, with the deployment time of international contributions and with preparations, I could confirm to the previous speaker that we do not have concrete plans to contribute on a larger scale to Sudan in 2012. And of course, it's true that the questioner points out that we need to know all the time to draw on available capacities and not overload the capacities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e548	Morten Højlund – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e551	I fully agree with the Council of State that we have a great deal of competence in defence and a good staff. But the problem is, of course, the robbery, to use that expression, as many of them experience. It is recommended that you be at home two and a half years after being out for six months, but the Army's communications manager tells the Address Paper earlier this week that we lack people – we have too few people, and we can't follow that model. With the planning of a new mission – I understand that the Minister of Defence confirms that a new mission is being considered for South Sudan – can the Council of State say that it will not go beyond our efforts in Afghanistan at all? Will it not put a further pressure on the soldiers and the roll we have, or does the Council of State think that we have surplus capacity in the Army and in the Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e558	We have important tasks to do both outside and at home, and of course it is my responsibility to ensure that we do not operate our personnel beyond the limits that we have to stay within, both in relation to Norwegian laws and regulations and in relation to the limits we ourselves have set. But the capabilities in the defense are many, and that's why I say that we have impressively large widths in the contributions we make. For example, we have had a role in security sector reform in the Balkans, and also in countries in the former Soviet Union, of which there is a great deal of respect, and what I want with my answers to give the impression is that we actually have a broad register to play on when we talk to international actors who are concerned about the development of Sudan. We follow it carefully, and the UN comes to us and wants to discuss possible contributions, we are prepared to meet that invitation with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e563	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e575	There will be one change in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed change to the ordinary Questionnaire is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 8, from the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be taken up by the representative Bente Stein Mathisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e588	Then I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘There has been a great deal of consensus in the Stortinge to strengthen the advisory service in the school community. The competence of the advisory body is strengthened and increased resources are deployed. However, adult training, especially Norwegian training of foreign speakers, feels that there is great pressure on pedagogical staff to be professionals and advisers, which they do not have competence or resources for. This affects a group we want to help work. Will the Council of State take action to strengthen these services in relation to adult training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e597	It would be nice if it was quiet in the hall so that at least we heard the answer, although it might have been difficult for someone to hear the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e600	Adults entitled to primary school education under the Training Act are entitled to advice to identify the training provision they need, cf. the training law § 4A-8. It follows from this that municipalities should have advisers in relation to the municipal adult education that can meet this need. The Labour Market Act gives the Labour and Welfare Act responsibility for general guidance to registered jobseekers, including immigrants, but in order to provide career guidance to adults who fall outside the education or labour market sector, we have strengthened adult counselling services by increasing funding for partnerships for career guidance and centres in the counties. There are 19 such partnerships, and the Storting has been active drivers to achieve this. Adults with a need for career guidance may avail themselves of this offer. I have visited several of them, and it is very competent, good places to turn. In addition, we have strengthened coordination and professionalism in the field by establishing a National Career Guidance Unit at Vox from 1 January 2011. Vox is also responsible to the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion for Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants and can therefore see the contexts and opportunities in the field, for which we will be responsive. In the 2010 letter of allocation, the Directorate for Education has been given a mandate to improve adult education statistics, and in particular those relating to adult secondary education, in order to obtain broader material on total participation and throughput. This is also important in order to provide a good knowledge base for adult education and the need for adult guidance. The hearing bodies that have expressed their opinion on the 2010 NOU:7 Mangfold and mastering mainly adhere to the proposal for a lift in adult education. No final decision has been taken on how to follow up this, but I am very concerned that we are strengthening adult education, including guidance and advice for adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e618	I want to thank you for a positive answer, one of which is open to further work on this, and I think we agree on that. The reason why I raise the question is specific feedback that it is in the local situation during language training that this appears. Yes, there are well-functioning career centres, and there are well-functioning other places that are betting on advice, but the challenge is that in language training, questions and challenges arise that a person would like to answer. And it's not always as easy to pass these on to other places. Therefore, this question of whether resources can be allocated to the local advisory service, resources to help these students there and then, because it might help them further to the other centres that are established.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e623	I take with me that description of the situation, because it is of course that while you are getting skills in Norwegian and better knowledge, there may be many questions that are difficult for the Norwegian teacher to answer, but that are crucial in relation to the plans these students are making. It can be very important for further motivation, etc. So I can look at how we could possibly make sure that you are better able to answer quickly the questions that had to appear. I'm very happy that there's a lot of attention around it, because that's where the solution to many of the issues that, among other things, are. The NHO started New Year with, lying down. It is about ensuring that people have competence, that not least adults who have had little access to education in the past have the opportunity to strengthen their position on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e630	I just want to follow up on what the Council of State concluded here: this has been a lot of focus lately, and we know that we can put extra resources in place to get these into work, we see it again in many areas, and many problems are solved. I am very pleased with the answer and very pleased that the Council of State will take this with you and see if you can do anything more with the local help during language training, because there it clearly shows up something. So I thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e641	‘Recently, there have been several media redundancies about the lack of procedures for recording damage caused by Norwegian soldiers while on duty in foreign operations. It appears unclear whether the situation of soldiers serving in Norway is the same or whether the defence has adequate reporting and recording procedures for these damage. Is there a complete list of claims for employees and compulsory national services, and is this information then systematised?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e648	The defence, as an employer, has clear rules and procedures for the registration and reporting of all professional injuries to its personnel. It is the local chief who is responsible for such registration and registration to military as well as civil authorities in accordance with the provisions laid down. In the case of damage requiring medical treatment or resulting in incapacity for work, this shall be recorded on a separate notification form sent to Nav. For military personnel, a copy of the form is sent to the Defence Sanitation for storage on behalf of the employer. In addition, in the event of serious damage, the Labour Inspectorate and the police shall be notified immediately. In addition, all units in the defence are required to report serious injuries and deaths involving civil and military personnel to the Armed Forces. The Armed Forces report the total amount of this type of damage to the Ministry of Defence in the ordinary performance reporting system on a quarterly basis. The activities of the defence are mainly governed by the Working Environment Act. Field practice activities include, inter alia: except. In accordance with the Working Environment Act, the defence is obliged to record damage and disease that can be related to work. Therefore, the defence has established clear mechanisms for recording and reporting damage, which meet the requirements of the Working Environment Act. It applies both internally in the Defence and to civil authorities. Today, the defence has not provided an electronic tool that can provide a statistical representation of the number of injuries. The defense is now developing a new tool to deal with this. The tool shall ensure uniform electronic recording of all professional damage and contribute to the updating of the statistical basis for damage at all times. The work on developing the tool, which I hope many have brought with it last week, is intensified. The lack of overviews and statistics central to everyone's damage to the defence does not mean that the individual follow-up of the individual vulnerable and defence personnel is poor. On the contrary, we have good knowledge of the individual damage case, and the defense is actively working to provide the best possible follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e663	I thank you for your answer. It is very important to have a good overview of both domestic and foreign damage, especially because we know that this is of great importance for late injuries, which often materialize after the damage occurs. It can be mentioned as one example that many in the Defense have experienced cold damage that has not been reported and recorded in a thorough manner. In March 2008, the representative of Bredvold asked a question of damage in international operations to former Minister of Defence Ström-Erichsen. Then Minister of Defence Ström-Erichsen told me that the defense had an overview. Not least, relevant health information for the individual soldier and the health register of the defence were fully comprehensive and recorded at an aggregated level. She was ‘secure that there is currently a thorough record of all relevant health information for soldiers and officers who have carried out foreign service’. So we know that it didn't work out. Just a few weeks ago, Councillor Faremo had to move out and tell them that the registration procedures and reporting procedures were not good enough. The question is, do we know that they are good enough for domestic soldiers when they were obviously not good enough for foreign soldiers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e674	Now I have put a strong searchlight in this area and put in a mission to the head of defence to ensure that we have good electronic arrangements in place for the future as well as a code book adapted to what information we need. Then a manual review, including back in 2001, must be carried out, not least in order to get a really good overview of the number of injuries in Afghanistan. Procedures are necessary to avoid a situation in which a manual review of a large material — of course also with sensitive information — and, not least in this context, the use of health professionals on a large scale — is necessary in order to ensure the protection of individual privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e679	Stroem-Erichsen – I'm sorry, the president was inspired by the supplementary question. Eriksen Soreide, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e684	Thank you very much. Both Minister of Defense Faremo and I have received a letter from the National Association of War School Officers, where they, among others, points to a possible measure, namely the establishment of a responsible point of contact in a so-called containment system, where all persons with sensitised injuries and other injuries can turn to ensure that all information comes to the right place. Is there anything the department would like to consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e693	I think there are two things that are relevant in this regard. One is that the veterans who have a question or need for help should be able to easily find it by entering one door. I've asked the Chief of Defense to go through how we've set up our veterinary administration, and make sure that we make it as simple as possible. With regard to reporting, not least electronic reporting, there is a separate work in the action plan that we are now working on in order to present 8 May. There we will address these issues, including those that have come from the outside, with a view to bringing up as good electronic reporting systems as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e702	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark along parts of highway 3, art in the form of colorful elgves shall improve road safety. These shall be hung on the trees along the road. You really mean to use approx. EUR 1 000 000 for art will improve road safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e711	The representative asks about a research and development project that lasts over three years, as seen by the State Road Service because of the high accident rates. On rv. On average, 5 people are killed every year, 12 are injured and 89 were injured every year from 2005 to 2009. To a large extent, these accidents are road accidents and meeting accidents. There is a greater part of an exit accident on Rv. 3 than on other two-field tribal roads in the East Region. There are also a number of accidents at the meeting. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Østerdalen is known as a stretch where there is a lot of forest, and it is sometimes monotonous to run. The state's road system means the high proportion of running accidents and meeting accidents indicate that the driver's attention is not good enough, or that the driver is asleep or is sluggish behind the steering wheel. There are studies that show that it is undesirable for the driver with stimuli about every three minutes to keep the concentration up. The state road authority has taken up this knowledge and wants with the R & D project to look creatively and innovatively at solutions to improve road safety on R & D. 3rd@item: inlistbox The project is divided into three subprojects: for the first light/lighting, for the second vegetation remediation and for the third landscape art. One of the measures to be taken to increase the attention of road users is to hang colorful elgae, 1.5 m wide, in selected trees. This will also make the driver aware of the great elkfar in the Østerdalen. Elgvevira and other landscape arts will also be something that children in the backseat and other passengers will notice and be able to look forward to. It will also help keep the driver awake. By adding to the conscious stimuli, such as elgegvira, and linking the location up to accident analyses and road-pathways on the city, mein Statens vägvesen that this will help reduce the monotony in the Østerdalen. This can contribute to more sensitive drivers, fewer traffic accidents, and may give the road user an increased travel experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e724	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I have to smile a little bit when I hear it, because at least I don't have the understanding that I'm spending $1 million. kr on elg egg of wood in different colours, attached to the forest along rv. 3, reduces traffic accidents along rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox It's absolutely right that rv. 3 is a very accident-affected road bill, with many off-road accidents and many meeting accidents. I've taken this up many times in this hall over the years. But then I heard about spending $1 million. kr on art along the way to increase the attention of drivers, I thought it was April 1st – I must say with all due respect for the proposal that I thought. I have great respect for the Road Administration and the road safety they operate with, but I think this is a total record bomb. I want to ask the Council of State once again: does the Council of State think it's right to spend $1 million? kr on this, or the Council of State might expect to spend 1 million. on other road safety measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e731	Of course, a lot of money is spent on a whole different area than on a roadside art. We have a comprehensive road safety plan that contains 152 different points, developed by the State Road Administration in consultation with the police, Education Directorate, Health Directorate and Safety Traffic. This plan includes measures on the road, safer running gear and conditions for the driver. Then, in general, the 2009 accident analyses — a review of all accidents involving injuries or fatalities — show that the driver’s condition is a contributing cause in half of the cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e736	I did not understand whether the council agreed or did not agree that this was the right use, and I asked the question again. On 1 November 2000, I had questions about signage, among other things. There are quite a number of entrepreneurs who want to set up signs along the way, for example. rv. 3, which we're now talking about, and they got no to that. I have asked about this many times – both in 2004, 2006 and forward, until now – and every time it has been shown that there is a refusal, precisely because a lot of signage along the way attracts the attention of the drivers. You'd think, with all due respect, that when you see colored moose signs in three that are set up on the trees along the way. 3, has the opposite purpose. At least I think so. Many people have talked to me about this, and they don't understand anything. What everyone thinks is that there has to be another way to spend $1 million. kr in order to increase road safety. I ask the Council of State one more time: does the Council of State think that is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e743	Thank you for the opportunity to answer your question. I needed to tell you that we have a comprehensive road safety plan that we follow. So let me say in addition: I have the sense that the state road system is thinking creatively to bring down the number of accidents. Luckily, we are happy. When we look at the number for 2010, we have to go back to 1954 to find the corresponding low numbers. However, 210 traffic fatalities are too much. I believe that this is a limited research and development project. It is within the possibilities of the State Road Service to try out new creative measures. I have not intended to intervene in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e754	‘The road system of the Member State removes 150 pedestrian crossings during those days and the justification is claimed to be road safety, which is very doubtful by the undersigned. Who has been informed that these pedestrian crossings should be removed has taken into account the need of the blind and the visually impaired for pedestrian crossings, and will the Council of State stop the removal of pedestrian crossings and instead look at better technical solutions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e761	In order to improve road safety, the Directorate of Road has asked all regions to review pedestrian lanes on routes at a speed of 50 km/h and 60 km/h. The review takes place on the basis of the State Road Service Manual, ‘Gangfield Criteria’. The starting point shall be that the walkways shall be better secured so as to provide the desired level of integrity of the track. As a general rule, gangbang should not be removed, but vice versa, either secured or reconstructed. The measures taken may be better lighting, crossing-up, better visibility or reduced speed limit. In a few circumstances, it has been assessed that there is no longer a need for the walkway, or that it should be moved, which means that some walkways are not visible. Both in the preparation of the general field criteria and in the concrete reviews of the current footpaths, it has been tried to address good road safety and satisfactory outcomes for all groups of road users, including blind and partially sighted. If the removal of signs and markings at a location is found to lead to major problems for the visually impaired or others, the State Road Service is prohibited from carrying out a new assessment for, inter alia, to look at the actions that can be taken to ensure the needs of the blind and partially aware. We've already received responses that have allowed the state road system to go a thorough round to see if this is a pedestrian field that is either planned to be removed or already removed, and where they're going to carry out a new assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e772	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I just have to say that the opinion of many is not that the State Road Service is very willing to look at solutions and make sure to keep things where you think it makes sense. It might also seem that it's actually the economy that's controlling. Instead of spending money rustling up the pedestrian crossings and providing light and that kind of thing, you pick the simple solution, which doesn't cost anything, that's just to remove them. Then you don't take into account those who often need these pedestrian fields in particular, of which maybe faint and blind are a very special group for which this is particularly important. I will therefore continue to challenge the Council of State whether it is such that the Council of State can guarantee that it is not the economy to record when you choose to remove pedestrian crossings, because it is important that it is not the economy to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e779	"Guarantee" is a required word. What I can promise you is that I will take this matter back to the state road, check what has already been done, and check that this is a different matter than the economy that is being taken care of. I myself have taken a round with the Norwegian Blind Federation and have been shown what the guide dogs have been trained to do in relation to the ‘sensing’ of zebra strips. I have also been assured by the Swedish Road Administration that these are going to have an extra round with the background of the turmoil that has arisen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e784	I understand that giving a guarantee is demanding, but it is definitely important, at least in the kind of cases like this. So I hope the Council of State not only says that it's hard to give a guarantee, but actually is going to guarantee that it's not the economy that plays in and that you don't get this right. So I'm a little worried about what you're doing now to improve road safety, as the Council of State addresses. Now it's like that, instead of the fact that the driver gets blamed because you're driving on someone in a pedestrian crossing, it's the one who goes over where there's no longer a pedestrian field that gets blamed. At least the result may not be better for the person who is being hit – it's just that there is someone else who gets blamed instead. It helps very little for someone who gets hit because he or she has crossed the road where you shouldn't have done it, where there may have been pedestrian crossings in the past. Then I want to challenge the Council of State. There are some places where you should have put new footbridges. Then I hope it does not happen that because you are going to clean someone away, you no longer dare to make sure to clean up where it should have been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e793	It's traffic security that's superior. We have intensified efforts to ensure better road safety. Our plan, with 152 measures, tells a lot about that. It also tells the upgrading of our roads that are happening right now, and that is historic. Then we also have other laws to stick to, for example. That we have to do what we can to make our society universally designed, that is. available to all. It also underlines the importance of checking that pedestrian crossings and other measures have been adapted to strengthen this possibility. In this round it was a pedestrian field in the 50 and 60 km zone. I'll come back with a more concrete follow-up to Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e806	‘Many of us train enthusiasts have wondered what the bad results of the Railway Agency are. In the Railways magazine No. 4 for 2010 we might get a part of the answer. Here a master student describes unprofessionality, unculture and poor systems in the Railway Agency. These are serious claims that weaken the trust in the railway system’s ability to get the railway back on foot. Will the Council of State take the recordings seriously and will it consider more modern and efficient railway organisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e813	The article referred to is based on problems arising from the construction of double-track walkways Forests-Åshaugen and Åshaugen-Sande-Holm on Vestfoldbanen. In St. prp. No 1 for 2000–2001 it was stated that the two parcels were to be put into service in 2000, but that there was some uncertainty about this as a result of delays in the approval of Ebiloc. This was a new type of signalling and securing system that the Railway Station had ordered from Bombardier, and that the Railway Station wanted to operate on these two routes. In St. prp. No 1 for 2001–02, the two new parcels were put into service on 15 October 2001. The article reveals that not everything is going to work properly in the Railway Works. The question refers to poor results. I expect that the negative developments in train running points in the last few years, and in particular the major operating problems that the railway had to deal with in the last winter due to long periods of heavy snow and cold. This is the thorough discussion in Stortinget for several rounds. As noted in the debates, the main cause of the problem was the lack of maintenance and renewal of the rail network over many years. Governments have seized this and increased the rights of operation and maintenance of the network significantly both in 2009 and 2010, compared to what was allowed in previous years. The government's 2011 draft budget is continuing this effort to improve the stability of the economy. In 2010 and 2011, the total number of runs for operation and maintenance is approximately. 668 million. kr higher than a flat distribution of the plan frame in the national transport plan for 2010–2013. We're already seeing positive effects of this. The figure for train running points for the August-December 2010 period shows a positive deviation for several train sections compared to the previous year. This applies, inter alia, to: for local traffic around Oslo. When it comes to modernising and improving the efficiency of the railway system, I would like to point out the work that the new railway manager has seen. In the last year, the Railway Agency has made several changes to its internal organisation to clarify responsibilities and make the organisation more deliverable. This is not least due to the extensive work undertaken by the Railway Agency to develop more and to increase the competence of the railway technical profession, which is currently lacking in Norway. This will necessarily take some time. It cannot be resolved without delay by a modified organisation of the railway system. I have also seen down a working group tasked with systematising and prioritizing rail challenges and identifying options for action to meet the challenges. I have great faith that this work will give positive results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e822	I thank you for your answer. I am also familiar with the working group set up by the Council of State for the further development of the Norwegian railway system. Then it is quite natural to follow up on questions related to this group. Will the Council of State also consider addressing solutions and challenges of the kind exemplified by this Master's degree student in the Railways Magazine? Could it also be a mandate for that working group?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e829	Let me refer again to the work started by the new railway manager. The hopes that are mentioned in this master's edition are, after all, a few years back in time. Fortunately, a lot has happened in the railway station afterwards. I'm busy having a modern and efficient railway station. In my opinion, this can be done without having to reorganise the Railway Works of a limited liability company, as is the case with the Right. I have confidence in the work that the railway manager has seen in modernising the railway system. I am pleased with the additional permissions of the Railway Agency that we are now translating. It will provide a good and stable train supply. This working group, which is due on 1 November, shall also look at organisation and funding in addition to other challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e836	I thank you once again for your answer. I think it's necessary to follow it up and ask the State Council if she thinks it's okay that the Railway Agency has no control over important planning documents, that these are randomly located, something at the Railway Agency's department, something at the document centre at Hamar, something in the basement of the head office, something in the State Archives in Kongsberg, and that some people prove to be impossible to recover. Or is it that the Council of State can now confirm that all documents are assembled, in place and available, so that they can form the basis for further development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e843	I cannot decide on a question that concerns the lack of control of the railway system. I maintained that the railway manager has control. I have confidence in the great work that she has already seen in modernising the Railway Agency and the work it has seen to reorganize internally. I know that they are now very careful about how the permissions are used, so that the government's goal, that the train should be in a path, is followed up. We're already seeing the first results, and we've got a set of things going on that will also show you the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e852	With the President's permission, I would like to begin by wishing the Council a good new year. Then comes the question: ‘The winter 2010/2011 has so far provided challenges with air quality in Oslo and Bergen. Other major cities in the country also have, or may have, such challenges. It is important that the government, through the Ministry of Transport, takes greater responsibility for transport solutions in the largest cities, and that air quality could also be improved both in the short and long term. What positive instruments will the Council of State use to improve transport solutions in the major cities while avoiding air quality problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e863	Let me acknowledge that Sortevik is a really good new year. Must it be a very good year for Norwegian commerce! So the answer: it's been working systematically on air quality in the big cities for many years. The concentration of particulate matter is significantly reduced. Previous calculations were too optimistic about developments in NO2 emissions. Now it turns out that it's a bigger challenge to satisfy the requirements than expected, both on average over the year and for periodically high levels under special weather conditions, as we've seen in Bergen and Oslo in later times. The exhaust requirements for new runtime have been shown to have less effect on NO2 concentrations than expected. In order to reduce NO2 concentrations, it is necessary to reduce traffic in the main urban areas. We have made it clear that regional road offices and municipalities with their homes in the road traffic laws § 7 second paragraph can implement emergency measures such as: temporary driving bans and other traffic regulation measures due to poor air quality. In addition, the Ministry has commissioned the Directorate of Road to send a proposal to amend Section 27 of the Road Law, which will allow temporary time-differentiated toll rates to be established in case of high air pollution. This can help to reduce the peaks of the air volume. Reduction of some days gives limited effect for the year as a whole. That is why we must also take measures that give lasting effect. Today, we are using a number of measures to get more people involved in transport other than cars, e.g. large means of public transport and pedestrian and cycle roads. However, it is not possible to reduce traffic only with such measures. In order to reduce urban car traffic, measures aimed directly at car traffic are needed. Such measures may include cow pricing, restrictive parking policies, prioritisation of the emergence of public transport, etc. To date, municipalities have shown limited interest in implementing such measures. The reward scheme was put in place to give local governance a stronger incentive to apply more restrictive measures aimed at driving. The funds from the reward scheme can be used to improve collective provision in line with the introduction of restrictions on the use of cars. In the three four-year agreements concluded by the Ministry, there is a close link between plans for improving collective provision, walking and cycling measures and the use of restrictive instruments. Action plans adapt the situation in each urban area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e885	I thank you for your answer. The Transport Economic Institute has evaluated emergency measures implemented in Bergen in January and February last year. It shows that the weather is the key factor in the emergency, and that rather than a change in the traffic situation, the weather conditions are changing, leading to a change in the pollution situation. The effect of date driving is uncertain because changes in weather conditions affected air quality even before the measure was implemented. However, as the Council of State pointed out, measures in the field of public transport are important and useful and can be a positive instrument if there is no obligation to impose penalties on those who need to use car transport. Therefore, my follow-up question is: will the Council of State increase the purchase by the State of passenger transport services by bus and train in Bergen and Oslo without requiring restrictive measures for the necessary transport by car?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e894	There is a broad agreement in this room — all parties with the exception of the Progress Party — that it is important to use funds to stimulate further collective action, combined with restrictive measures for car use. That's the way it is. I want to follow up on the reward scheme. I will follow up on the purchase of passenger transport in the coming years. We've reached an agreement with the NSB that requires a huge increase. We've got extra reward money of 100 million. kr in 2011. That's warning extra increases. It is also necessary to play on teams with local government powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e899	The party plays a team role in strengthening public transport. But we are concerned that there will be rewards for those who want to travel collectively, without necessarily following a penalty for those who have a necessary car-based transport need. In the long term, it is important to do something about the emission of nitrogen dioxide. One of the effective measures is to ensure a faster replacement of Norwegian car fleet. Today's diesel car, e.g. a diesel car from 2010, emits one fifth of the substances a diesel car did ten years ago. What will the Council of State do to stimulate the increased renewal of the car park in Norway? 70 pst. the car park in Norway is over four years old, and there is therefore a tearing technological development that causes new cars to emit significantly less of all emissions. What will the Council of State do to increase the renewal of the car park in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e906	Let me first say that I believe enough asthmatics, allergy sufferers and also many commuters and others do not see it as a punishment that there is more organisation for collective provision – a responsibility that the county councils have, from state to state. Then the government has announced an additional conversion of the fees to ensure a better environment. We have figures in relation to the entry fees that show that a new car today will release 20 pst. less CO2 than five years ago. We also have NO2 inside of these assessments, and we're going to follow up further. But when it comes to taxes, there is something the Minister of Finance is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e923	I would also like to take the opportunity to wish the Council of State a good new year. ‘In a report from the meeting of 18 February 2010 between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and Health in Central Norway, it appears that the Ministry of Health and Welfare will have hospitals in Health North-Møre and Romesdal, and that this will be placed so close to Kristiansund that it is accepted by the political leadership there. Will the Council of State deny that this was expressed at this meeting by political leadership?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e932	Let me first express a good new year also to Bent Höie. In the case of the location or choice of construction solution for a new hospital in Health Mid-Norway, the government has not concluded that. It is true that a meeting was held between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and Health Mid-Norway on 18 February last year, at the request of the Chairman of the Board of Health Mid-Norway. I wasn't there myself. No minutes were written from this meeting. The representative, Höie, is based on a personal note that the director informs that he has prepared after the meeting, where he summarises his impressions. There were various topics that were discussed at the meeting, including: draft plans for a new hospital in Molde. At that time, Health Middle Norway was waiting for feedback on draft plans for a new hospital in Molde. The plans were previously submitted to the department. At the meeting, the Ministry pointed out that the draft plans submitted contained only one alternative development solution for a new hospital. In general, several alternative development solutions are to be explored when major investment projects are planned. Thus, two alternatives were discussed — both the zero option, i.e. an upgrade to today’s hospital, and the option with one common hospital in the North Moravia and Romesdal. My feedback on the submitted draft report was sent to me by letter of 11 March 2010. I want to be absolutely sure that we are choosing the best solution for the population in the area and that the solution is economically feasible. In the letter I therefore asked for further investigations related to the professional and economic conditions of the design plans. In addition, I asked that the continuation of operations in today's premises and one joint hospital in Nordmøre and Romesdal be investigated in the further planning work. This letter sums up the Ministry of Health and Health and therefore my position on the matter at the time. I will follow this case in an appropriate manner within the framework of the Business Act to assure me that the population in the area in question is getting the best possible offer. I will also follow up on the Stortinges treatment of Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011, where it is established that investments in excess of 500 million. kr shall be presented to the Ministry. Furthermore, I would like to follow up on the fact that, from 2011 onwards, regional health companies are subject to a four-year testing scheme with external quality assurance of conceptual phase investigations, similar to the State KS1 scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e945	The meeting may not have been completely meaningless, because the Minister of Health refers to the meeting in the letter of 11 March which she draws up. There's a request for an investigation. The investigation is made by the board of Health Nordmøre and Romsdal, and they come to the same conclusion. Then the Minister of Health sends again a new letter asking for further investigation of the alternatives. It may seem as if the council here has decided to ask and ask until she gets the answer she's really decided she wants. But if you really want to control the health system, wouldn't it have been better actually to be honest and open about the conclusion that a person wants, so that one had actually taken responsibility for the conclusion that the Council of State is obviously guiding towards?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e950	As for the last letter I have answered to Health Mid-Norway: The most important thing in that letter is an observation of what Health Mid-Norway says in their report to me, that they do not have the money to start building this before 2018. That's the important thing about this. Then it is also possible to investigate further this which will be our biggest challenge in health care in the future, regardless of who is in the Health Minister's chair, namely to provide competent professional environments and also to ensure that these professional environments become so complex that you really manage to have a good offer to the population. Many people have made enquiries that they want one hospital, but I have not taken a position, and I have not taken a position on anything when it comes to location.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e958	Does the Minister of Health not see that by not contributing to the conclusion of this matter, but rather allowing the discussion to go on for so many years, the process that the Minister of Health has set in motion here will involve a multi-annual very profound conflict between two hospitals in the same health region, where one actually achieves the opposite of the Minister of Health in his letter, namely that it will be very difficult to recruit skilled professionals to two health environments that conflict so much with one another, in a region where two cities declare that they are at war with one another? Over many years, as this is a matter of fact, the Minister of Health has helped to launch a process that will weaken the overall health supply in this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e963	It is serious about the conflict that is taking place. I think everyone notices that. However, this should not lead to poor treatment for patients. I have also asked that one health company be evaluated throughout the county. It's a state that has approx. 260 000 inhabitants, if I remember correctly, and four hospitals today. They should be able to offer a good offer – a very good offer – to the population, and I am sure they will. But once again, when you're going to invest almost 3 billion. There we have to know, as elsewhere, that we invest that money in the best possible and most future-oriented way. The point now is that Health Middle Norway does not have the financial strength to bear this, as the situation is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e974	This question, from the representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Bente Stein Mathisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e977	‘In the press release of the Buskerud Workers’ Party on 8 December, reference is made to a meeting between the political leadership of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the management of Health South-East, Multiconsult and Buskerud Workers’ Party in which the plans for a new hospital on the Gullaug Square were scrapped. Afterwards, the government also concludes with a co-location of the psychiatry in Drammen. Does the Council of State consider that this form of governance complies with the Business Act?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e984	This case has been dealt with in accordance with the Business Act. I am concerned that the state will act as a clean hospital owner, and we will facilitate new and necessary investments. Following the acquisition of ownership by the State, there has been a significant increase in the rate of investment. It is true that we have gone away from the site of Gullaug as a result of the Multiconsult report and its assessments. This was finally decided at the business meeting in Health South-East RHF on 6 January this year. The fact that this case was to be dealt with at the business meeting results from previous decisions at the business meeting on 17 December 2007 and on 26 January 2010. The Multiconsult report was transmitted from Orica/Dyno Nobel to Health South-East on 1 November 2010. Since then it has been publicly available on Health South-East websites. That both the department and representatives from the Buskerud Workers' Party were interested in hearing about Mulitconsults and Health South-East assessments in this matter, is hardly surprising. The case was handled in Health South-East on 16 December 2010 and I met on 6 January in response to a request from Health South-East on 21 December 2010. Decision No 4 of the Enterprise Meeting of 17 December 2007 stated that: ‘During the period until new hospital has been realised, Health South-East RHF must seek a sound solution for the psychiatry currently located in the psychiatric department of Lier.’ In the business meeting, as a guide to the further work on a new hospital in Buskerud – Vestre Viken HF, I gave that the new hospital should include mental health services as part of the overall solution for mental health protection in Vestre Viken, i.e. a co-location of offers within somatic and psychiatry in line with well-established professional recommendations. The details related to the choice of solution will have to come back to Health South-East at a later stage. Further consideration of this extension matter will be in accordance with the Business Act and in accordance with the leadership of Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011 related to hospital investments above 500 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1000	The formal process outlined by the Council of State implies that the ownership management in this case only took place on 6 January of this year. This does not match the information that has been provided in the press and from the Buskerud Arbeiderparti. The Business Act states that ownership management is to be carried out only at the business meeting. How will the Council of State explain that a meeting was held on 8 December between the Council of State, the management of Health South-East and the Buskerud Workers' Party, which resulted in a press announcement that the Gullaug Santa Claus had been flogged, and that on 16 December the government decided that the new co-located hospital should be in the Drammen – on the same day as the board of Health South-East decided to send the matter that they wanted to drop the Gullaug project, to the Department?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1005	It was quite clear that health south-east had to come back to the department. They had no powers to move on with the Gullacht. They were to return to the department after the investigations had been carried out. The investigations that Multiconsult had revealed that there had to be comprehensive safeguards to build on this site at all. The important thing for Buskerud is that you can find a future-oriented solution that you agree on. I've understood it so that you've been in the Drammen option before, but for different reasons, one went away from it many years ago. Now there's empty areas in this area. Then it is important to see if this is something you can gather about, because we want to have a progress in the development of a new hospital in Buskerud. An important premise in this is also to be able to co-locate somatics and psychiatry. It doesn't necessarily mean that today we can say which parts of the psychiatry of the two institutions are in the area, which are going into the new hospital, but there's a clear lead that it has to be co-located.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1012	In response to the representative Jan Tore Sanner, the Council of State said that Vestre Viken HF should have representatives from the municipalities concerned in a steering group for the further strategic work on a new hospital in Drammen. What is the strategy to which they are actually invited? The decision appears to have been taken by the management of the Buskerud Labour Party and the government on the major issue of the co-location of somatic and psychiatry. The inhabitants of Asker and Bærum react strongly to the undemocratic overrun that has taken place in the hospital case. Now that the Gullaug project has been scrapped, will the Council of State open the way for the new hospital management group to look at this with the re-localisation of somatics and psychiatry, and assess whether Blakstad hospital can be as good, and perhaps a better, alternative as psychiatric hospital services in the West Viken HF?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1017	What's important to me is that we get momentum in a new hospital in Buskerud. I am very concerned that further work on this hospital also includes the other municipalities, large municipalities that are important in the Västre Viken, but these are municipalities that have their hospital in Bærum – it is the primary hospital for them. As for the functions to enter this hospital, it's a little early in the process, and it's not like anyone's hooked on here. Here it's just about where to push ahead with planning. At least you have to figure out first that here you're betting on building further, here we're going to plan a new hospital, and then look at how we can include all functions in the best possible way. And of course – in such a work, the municipalities that are affected are also being withdrawn. But which of these functions is going in, and which ones aren't going in, it's completely impossible for me to say today. What's important is that psychiatry should enter the new hospital as part of the hospital's total responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1028	‘Amalgam fillings have been used for many years as an important part of dental treatment in Norway. Many patients, after receiving amalgam, have suffered severe health problems as a result. Governments have previously expressed their desire to review the use of amalgam and its consequences for patients. The use of amalgam and its adverse effects are problematic in a number of other countries, and consideration is now being given to substituting patients. How long must Norwegian patients wait for clarification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1035	For more than 20 years, the Norwegian authorities have taken a number of initiatives in the field of knowledge-building on possible adverse reactions of amalgam as dental treatment material. The Directorate for Health published in 2009 at the latest «Guidelines for the investigation and treatment of suspected adverse reactions from odontological biomaterials». These included: based on a review of all relevant international research related to any adverse reactions to such materials. This also included the knowledge built up by the Adverse Reaction Group on odontological materials in Bergen. Patient organisations and many trade unions participated in the work. One of the conclusions was that research cannot prove that amalgam fillings cause general health damage. This is also the reason why general health damage caused by mercury released from amalgam fillings is not recognised as a diagnosis of the professional environments. Therefore, the Health Directorate has not recommended that drilling out amalgam fillings to replace them with another material is beneficial to health. However, the Ministry receives a number of enquiries from people that link their health concerns to amalgam fillings. I have therefore asked the Health Directorate to plan a larger research project related to any health problems caused by amalgam fillings. This is a project that will go over several years with planned start-up in 2011. The aim of the project is to acquire knowledge that can help those who associate their health concerns with dental materials to improve their health and/or quality of life. We also want to know what can help those who have replaced their dental fillings, but who still experience health problems that they put in connection with previous dental fillings. In the international context, this is a unique project. The project must be carried out before we have the answers to what might help patients who experience being plagued by mercury from amalgam fillings. Amalgam is no longer used as dental material. The Ministry of the Environment introduced, with some exceptions, a ban on the use of amalgam of environmental considerations from 1 January 2008. From 1 January 2011, there is a total ban on the use of amalgam as dental material. This applies to the whole population.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1044	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good that a group should now be set up again, and that you should research and see what you can do to help patient groups who have experienced this. It's pretty strong stories you hear when you talk to people who may have been talking for 20 years, and more than that, have had severe pains and problems with this. They have met one government council after another as a health minister who has promised that this is something you should look at, this is something you work with, and this is something you want to do. So the Council of State now says to set up a new group in 2011 that needs to spend several years working on this. The question is: Does the Council have any deadline for expecting this patient group to know as well, and at least get a clarification as to whether you believe you have a responsibility, or whether you think you don't have a responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1053	This is a dental material that has been used for many years before. I have to say that I'm of the opinion that if we're going to make changes, and at least if it's about meeting it to make big changes in those who have these types of fillings, you have to do it based on knowledge. That's why we're cutting this research project, and we think that's important. It's not to train time, it's simply to acquire sufficient knowledge. I have a lot of respect for the fact that someone is experiencing trouble with this, but we have to have knowledge if we're going to have general recommendations for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1058	Fortunately, now there are two dental assistants who get compensation because you think you can prove that something has actually happened. There will probably also be many others and more that will come in the same category. I want to challenge the Council of State, because some of these patients have had both amalgam inserted, had it for a long time and got it taken out again, so that it is believed that they have documented that they have severe health problems due to amalgam. That's why they want to know when they can get an explanation as to whether you are getting compensation or not. Some of these live a totally unsustainable life. When, at least so far, the Council of State will not respond when one can expect this research project to be completed, one will still have to live with it for many years, when one has perhaps lived in frustration and experience that one is not taken seriously by the health service for over 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1065	It is good that there is a clarification in these matters that concerns dental assistants. I want to stress that their view of mercury, which is the dangerous material up in this, is completely different from that of the patients. Patients get it in their teeth, while a number of these assistants have been above mercury vapour without having the necessary suction — also, of course, because of a lack of knowledge at the time they were too much exposed to it. Although it is the same material, there are two different types of cases — one dealing with professional harm compensation. There are also two different types of influence, as I understand it, because one is about mercury vapour, and the other is about getting it in the teeth as a patient, of course in a more limited way and to a more limited extent. I can't draw a conclusion here, but we're launching a research project on this from the current year. I think it is important to get sufficient knowledge about this. I can't say when the research project will be finished either, but at least I can say that this is an area – not least on the basis of this judgment – that will have a lot of attention in the future, because it's a lot of us who have amalgam fillings in their teeth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1077	‘Norway and Sweden signed on 9 December 2010 the agreement on a common green certificate market for the stimulation of 26.4 TWh new renewable energy. Norwegian and Swedish consumers will each finance their own half, but the power generation itself can come in both countries. Thus, elements such as concession processing time and network development will be important for the pace of Norwegian development. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian projects are able to avail themselves of this possibility of a green certification market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1084	As the representative Meling states, I and my colleague Maud Olofsson signed a protocol on a common green certification market in December. On the same day, I sent a bill, which provides the basis for the Norwegian part of a common certification system with a planned start on 1 January 2012. The representative, Meling, asks what I want to do to ensure that Norwegian projects are able to take advantage of the possibility of a certificate market. In addition to establishing a good agreement with Sweden and stable framework conditions, the main contribution of the authorities is to ensure good processes and adequate progress in concession treatment. In recent years, government has done a great deal to both streamline and strengthen the basis for this concession treatment. The processing capacity of the NVE has doubled since 2005. In the period 2002-2005, final authorisations were granted for new generation of water and wind power with expected production of around 3,5 TWh per year. During the period 2006-2009, authorisations were granted for projects with expected production of about 6 TWh per year, i.e. almost twice as much. I would like to highlight in particular that we are now seeing clear results of the effort on the concession treatment of small-scale power. In 2010, NVE decided 101 cases, which is a quadruple compared to 2004. In addition, in recent years, several measures have been taken to strengthen the decision-making framework for the concession treatment, including the establishment of guidelines for wind power and small hydropower plants and regional coordination of concession treatment. Regional coordination is important to ensure good coordination between the development of networks and production and to ensure that both the use of resources and the impact of several projects in the area can be assessed in the context. Renewable energy investment is thus producing results, and green certificates will make even more renewable projects profitable. Increased renewable production obviously also requires network development. As previously notified, I intend to submit a case to the Stortinget about this and an upgrade of the country’s transmission system in force later in the major period. I feel confident that enhanced concession treatment, skilled Norwegian operators and Norway's rich wind and water resources will allow many good Norwegian projects to benefit from the certification scheme when it comes into place on 1 January 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1099	More than 500 cases — small-scale power stations — are in line, and with a treatment capacity of 100 per year, it means five years in order to obtain an application for a concession for small-scale power stations. We on the right-hand side are not satisfied with that. The legislative proposal referred to by the Council of State has been consulted. I don't think we need much imagination to be able to assume that part of the reaction will be that a number of small power plants feel failed by the government, because those who established themselves after 1 January 2011 assumed that they would be in the scheme. These are farmers and landowners who have invested their savings in small power plants, and who feel cheated and failed by the government, and in particular by the Center Party that has the council here. What does the Council of State say to this group of about 100 small power plants? In the case of these, is there any hope or possibility that the government in the first place will correct the bias that has been notified?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1108	Until recently, there is nothing more to say now than what has been said by me in Stortinget on repeated occasions earlier when the matter has been discussed. In the case of these 500 small-scale power cases, which are to be dealt with for any concession, and the processing time, I am also impatient. Once we have strengthened the capacity of NVE as much as we have done, it has been based on the desire to bring the queue down – although not by getting more applications in, but more decisions out. We also see strong growth in treatment. When the representative Meling on behalf of the Right is concerned about this, I can't help but repeat what I said in my post, that we dealt with over 100 cases in 2010, which is a quadruple compared to 2004. So it would probably have been a point to be a little concerned about this something earlier than in 2010, when we actually managed to increase capacity significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1117	I am proud of the efforts made by the Right and the Bondevik II government to simplify the application procedures for small power plants, and which resulted in a number of small-scale operators on the track who want to produce more renewable energy. With regard to the scheme of green certificates, I am questioning the price to be paid by Norwegian consumers. It was such that when the government took over Stoltenberg in 2005, a rather fast negotiation with Sweden shriveled on the grounds that this was too expensive for Norwegian consumers. I do not see that the agreement that exists today is in any way cheaper for Norwegian consumers. It is then easy to ask whether we have not only experienced five to six years of lost time focusing on and stimulating new renewable energy production.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1124	First of all, I can't go into the details of what happened five to six years ago, because then I wasn't in the position to have the overview and knowledge that I now have. What I know is that one has not been so close to the major challenges at any time in the past, and actually discussed the main issues, as we were in the final phase now, and thus was also concluded. For me, it is now important to obtain, explain and, if necessary, discuss the content of the contract that is in fact available, and which I believe is a good agreement for Norwegian consumers as well. The reason why I mean it, the fact that the seas are isolated is a cost related to getting more renewable energy out is that when we look at how the market works, an increase in the amount of energy will also be price stabilising.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1131	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-12.ana.ud1357e1144	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
