ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e113	Representatives of Sylvi Graham, Lise Christoffersen, Jørund Rytman, Torgeir Micaelsen, Anette Trettebergstien, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Karin Andersen, Laila Davøy, Karin S. Woldseth, Gina Knutson Barstad, Harald T. Nesvik, Torgeir Tjäldal, Håkon Haugli, Dagfinn Høybråten, Siri A. Meling, Øyvind Waksdal, Torfinn Opheim, Geir Pollestad, Ingrid Heggø, Tor Bremer, Steinar Gullvåg, Sven Roald Hansen, Irene Johansen and Ingesd Schou, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Laila Gustavsen from 26 April to 5 May to take part in a study trip with the International Visitor Leadership Programme in the United States from the representative Eirik Sivertsen on care leave from 26 April to 9 May from the representative Hadia Tajik on study leave from 26 April to 20 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Kjell Børre Hansen For the Nordic counties: Knut Petter Torgersen For Oslo: Karin Yrvin
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e234	Kjell Børre Hansen and Knut Petter Torgersen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e242	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e245	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the legislation on insurance against accidents at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e250	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we move on to the agenda, the President will point out that today's meeting is actually set up with a break from 0 p.m. 16 to 16 o'clock. 18, as it's not a Monday. However, the President will allow himself to suggest, if there are no strong objections to it, that we run the meeting continuously until today's map is completed, i.e. without a break. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e266	This fall is 10 years since Al Qaida's attack on the World Trade Center in New York. It has been ten years since the removal of the Taliban regime and the commitment of the international community to support the development of a stable, uniform and democratic Afghanistan. There have been ten dramatic years with both progress and backwards. The situation in Afghanistan has not been clarified. The Afghan people are still living with conflict and uncertainty, and the region is marked by instability. The brutal attack on the United Nations Office in Mazar-e Sharif on 1 April, in which seven UN personnel, including Norwegian Colonel Siri Skare, tragically lost their lives, shows that unforeseeableness and violence are part of Afghanistan's daily lives, even in areas that are considered relatively stable. The attack made a powerful impression on all of us. We expect the culprits to be prosecuted and the security of international relief workers to be properly maintained. The UN will continue its commitment wide in Afghanistan even after the brutal attack. A strong UN is still needed to coordinate international civil efforts and as the primary point of contact with the Afghan Government. I want to use this statement to repeat the background of our commitment. I want to give an assessment of where we – the international community and Afghan authorities – stand ten years after the fall of the Taliban, and how the government sees the way forward for our involvement in the country. It is worth beginning with this: the aim of our involvement in Afghanistan, as underlined in repeated resolutions of the UN Security Council, is to help prevent terrorist movements from being tempted to plan and carry out large-scale terrorist acts. It is not an independent objective to operate state-building in Afghanistan. But when we have a comprehensive civil commitment to promote economic growth, political rights, respect for human rights and sustainable institutions, it is based on a recognition that these are important prerequisites precisely to prevent Afghanistan from becoming such a tempest. As for our participation in the Libyan operation, our participation in Afghanistan is anchored in the UN Security Council. The international stabilisation force we are participating in, ISAF – the International Security Assistance Force – was established through Security Council Resolution 1386 in December 2001. It is, as the name says, a force to assist Afghans in their own efforts to ensure stability in the country. The mandate of the United Nations stated that the situation in Afghanistan posed a threat to international peace and security, such as the area for international terrorism. That this remains the case is stated in the Security Council Resolution 1943 of October 2010, which is the current UN mandate for ISAF. The UN Security Council has also explicitly stated that the parties in Afghanistan must respect human rights, including women’s rights. Today, 48 countries, i.e. about a quarter of the UN Member States, participate in ISAF. It's more than ever. It shows the clear legitimacy of the Afghanistan exposure has internationally. It is also worth noting that countries with a large Muslim population now account for one third of the international contact group for Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Norwegian contribution to ISAF of about 500 women and men is significant, and we are still among those who contribute most in relation to the population. In addition to the military contribution, dozens of civilian Northmen have their daily work in Afghanistan, including 23 police advisers. There is a common platform in Stortinget for our Afghanistan exposure. This is a strength and increases our ability to promote clear messages when developments in Afghanistan are discussed in the UN, in NATO, in Kabul or in other capitals. The government attaches great importance to continuing this broad consensus, both in order to ensure the impact of Norwegian external views and to show support to Norwegian women and men serving civilly or militarily in Afghanistan. We are impressed by their efforts and pride in their commitment. Last month, the Security Council renewed its mandate for the UN operation in the country, UNAMA. The new mandate does not differ much from the previous one, but the principles of Afghan ownership and the gradual transfer of responsibilities to Afghan authorities are confirmed and clarified. Afghan authorities have been more involved in the design of the mandate than in the past, demonstrating their desire to take greater responsibility for their own development. Stronger Afghan ownership is a process that Norway has encouraged for a long time, and we are pleased that this principle has now become established in the international community. It's been progressing and going backwards. And often it's that the backbones get the most attention. However, let us also make some of the Afghan authorities and the Afghans themselves have been created with the support of the international community during the last decade. First of all, the feared Taliban regime has been removed, and Afghanistan is no longer a refuge for Al Qaida. A goal of our efforts in Afghanistan is to secure the country against international terrorists in the future as well. Afghanistan is today a country with elected leaders. The elections are far from perfect, as the last parliamentary and presidential elections have shown. However – and that is important – elections take place, and they take place according to a standard that you have never seen in Afghanistan before, including among others. full voting rights for women. There has been a strong improvement in infrastructure, especially in road and electricity supply. But more than 10,000 kilometers of road a repaired. The first power line from Central Asia and through Afghanistan has been completed and others are planned. This has contributed to more stable power supply in several places and to more people. The construction of a new railway line will link Afghanistan to the Central Asian countries, Russia, China and Pakistan. Overall, this helps to stimulate further economic development by exploiting one of Afghanistan’s natural advantages, namely to be a geographical hub in a large region. Economic growth is even and high. GDP per capita has more than doubled in the last decade, but from a very low point of view. At the same time, tax revenue has increased from almost zero in 2001 to over 6 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. From my visits to Afghanistan, I have seen for myself clear examples of economic development and faith in the future. The economy is speeding up. This applies from small individual enterprises to larger national infrastructure projects. This helps here and now, and there are bets that promise good for the future. There are several thousand new schools built, both primary and secondary. In Faryab, where the Norwegian forces are responsible for security, over 100 schools have been built with Norwegian aid. I was present at the opening of one of these schools where hundreds of young girls were sitting in fully equipped classrooms in what had previously been stables for the Taliban soldiers' horses – symbolically in more than one way. Opportunities must be provided for children and young people. In 2001, under 1 million children went to school, today 7 million Afghan children go to school. One third of them are girls. They follow a broad professional syllabus, and this stands in sharp contrast to the time during the Taliban, when girls were denied schooling and the boys' syllabus was characterized by religious texts and the call for hatred and resistance to different thinking. Ten years ago only had about 10 pst. access to basic health services by the population of Afghanistan. Today has up to 85 pst. of the population this. Infant mortality has been reduced by 25 pst. Information access is also quite different from 10 years ago. In 2001, there were no television stations and only one radio station in Afghanistan. Now there are dozens of television stations and over 100 radio stations broadcasting in a number of languages. In recent years, large areas have been cleared for mines and unexplosed explosives. The number of people affected by landmines is greatly reduced. Finally, Afghanistan has come well into the process of building up and training the army and the police, which are necessary for the authorities to take responsibility for the security of the country. Today, the Afghan army has 152 000 personnel, while the police force is 119 000. Although there are also shortcomings and challenges from weak formal knowledge to desertification, it is important that the Afghan State gradually acquire its own safety structure. As I initially said, contributing to these advances is not, in itself, the basis for our presence and participation. But I find that more and more people are recognising that such progress is essential to succeed in what is one of the main objectives of the United Nations mandate, namely to assist the Afghans to enable them to rule Afghanistan. So the results are very encouraging in many areas. At the same time, however, we need to recognise that many have had too high expectations for development, and that some visions of the future have been based more on aspirations than realistic analyses and assessments of how rapid changes can be made, and not least on the basis of which Afghanistan was found ten years ago. The country takes steps out of this abyss, but the road is long and steep. That is why we need an ongoing reality orientation on Afghanistan's development goals in the coming years and the visions of the society we will gradually withdraw from militarily. If Afghanistan is to have a future as a single country, the government of Kabul must exercise influence in the provinces. This can only happen if the elected government is seen as representative and legitimate, and a minimum is then seen as involved in contributing to security and economic growth in rural areas. A prerequisite for this is good and close cooperation between central and local authorities. That's not the situation today. Even Afghan law enforcement is still lacking for this cooperation. There is therefore a continuing risk of fragmentation of power, which weakens the possibilities for national solutions. There is also a risk that the international community will support parallel Afghan structures based on the need for operational authority in provinces and districts. This is alarming. Better cooperation is required where government decisions are anchored at provincial level, and management in Kabul must support and be supported by elected local and regional representatives. They must avoid developments contributing to further polarisation between the pashtun-dominated areas of the south and the non-Pashtun areas of the north. At the same time, the authorities of Kabul must take responsibility for the management of their own country and for their own development under the mandate of the UN Security Council. This means that the principles of Afghan ownership and transition, i.e. the transfer of responsibility from the international community to the Afghan authorities must be filled in with content, have a direction and an timetable which puts both parties under a realistic time pressure. The Afghan authorities and the international community share a joint responsibility to succeed in this. We have learned and experienced deep tensions in Afghan society hampering the development of both Afghans and international communities. It is too easy to say that the Taliban alone is the obstacle on the way. What we understand as the movement of rebellion is very complex. Collective terms such as ‘Taliban’ represent a simplified picture of the reality occurring on the ground in Afghanistan. Several different groups have chosen to conduct an armed struggle against the authorities and the international presence in the country. We're dealing with everything from Taliban to purely criminal networks and not least groups taking up arms in local conflicts and disagreements. The driving forces behind the uprising are complex and unwieldy, especially when we see a mix of different groupings, such as through the Taliban's local cooperation with criminal drug networks. The Taliban and other rebel groups continue to be significant factors of power and widespread in large parts of the country. The Afghan authorities, in cooperation with ISAF, have progressed towards weakening these groups in parts of Helmand and Kandahar provinces in the south. But it's too early to determine whether this will remain a permanent situation. Only in a few months will we be given an answer as to whether the tactical advances achieved will have a more long-term effect. The realistic objective of opposing the Taliban and other rebel groups cannot be to eliminate all military resistance, but to ensure that rebels do not get footholds and to contribute to making negotiated solutions more attractive. Long-term stabilisation is only possible through a political process in which all main ethnic groups support the outcome. The International Coalition entered Afghanistan to support Afghan authorities in combating Al Qaida and the Taliban. Crime and internal conflicts are the responsibility of the Afghan authorities to control. The objective of the ISAF training programme for Afghan security forces is precisely to enable them to do so. Although most unrest takes place in limited parts of the country, it spreads to new areas — also to previously considered relatively safe areas. Developments in the north are alarming with a sharp increase in insurrection activities, as the Mazar-e Sharif attack on 1 April showed. We also see this in the Faryab province, where Norway has a special responsibility through the management of a stabilisation team, a so-called Provincial Reconstruction Team, PRT. There are also several examples of the rebel movement being targeted attacks on civilians and executions by doctors, teachers, tribal leaders and officials perceived as supporting players for Afghan authorities and international efforts. Insecurity, fear and fear are their most important weapons. The lack of security for the smooth Afghans also means that they continue to be subjected to abuse of power, corruption, gross human rights violations, warlords and other uncultures and abuses. We cannot expect modern societies to grow in a few years, especially in Afghanistan, which has been one of the poorest and most backward countries in the world, characterized by decades of civil war. This does not facilitate the fact that the Afghan national construction project, as defined almost ten years ago, involves a strong central power in a country with decentralised culture and tradition. Our military efforts will continue to contribute to the security and necessary stability of the political authorities. But we know that lasting peace and stability require both economic progress and political participation. Among all the challenges facing Afghanistan, one of the most demanding is the effective right of advice to rule in one’s own country. We, the international community, can point out what we mean to, what we can offer, and how we can improve our assistance. But much more so than before, we must recognize that the Afghans themselves must build their country. Our role is to help and support. Over the last few years, we have repeatedly asked questions about international actors to a sufficient extent to facilitate such a responsibility for the Afghans. Developments are moving in the right direction, in line with what has been Norwegian attitudes for a long time. The international community is now listening more than before to the wishes of the Afghan authorities. During the last year's elections, the UN contributed primarily with technical support, precisely to enable the Afghans themselves to run the democratic process. The same applies to the UN Peace Council Support Group. As external actors, President Karzai may feel that he is a difficult partner. We can point out that he and his government make choices we will call incorrect, and even irresponsible. But it is Karzai who is Afghanistan's elected president, and we must understand that both he and other Afghan politicians live in a different reality than ours – a reality that short-term survival and volatile alliances have always belonged to – and still belong to – everyday life. I have emphasized this on previous occasions here in the Grand Duchy: a natural consequence of transferring more responsibility to the Afghan authorities is that we must live with the fact that they will choose solutions other than those we see here in the West as the best – solutions based on different traditions, different values and different governance models than those we perceive as right and ideal. Such recognition requires a lot of us, but I think it's absolutely crucial. The NATO summit in Lisbon last November decided to launch a gradual transition, i.e. transfer of security responsibilities, from the international forces to Afghan forces in 2011, while gradually withdrawing ISAF's fighting forces and remaining completely out by 2014. That's the target. A prerequisite for this is that the Afghan authorities themselves can assume responsibility for their security in parallel with the withdrawal of the ISAF forces. At the summit, NATO Secretary-General and President Karzai signed a declaration stating that NATO and Afghanistan should have political and long-term non-operational cooperation beyond 2014. This implies that NATO’s commitment to contributing to security in Afghanistan will continue beyond 2014 but in a different way. The United States is now negotiating a new strategic partnership agreement with Afghanistan. It's too early to say something certain about what NATO's action in Afghanistan will look like in two, four or six years' time. For Norway, it is important that NATO stands together, that the extraction be carried out as part of an overall plan, and that the allies are also in the future coordinated in line with the decisions of the NATO summit in Lisbon. We now see that the Afghan security forces demonstrate the ability to address security challenges in parts of the country. It has been important for the ISAF countries to start the first steps in transferring security responsibilities to the Afghan Government. Karzai announced on 22 March that Afghan security forces will take over responsibility for a selection of its districts and provinces as the first step towards the takeover of security throughout the country in 2014. This does not mean that Afghanistan will be free of insurrection by now. The objective is that the Afghan forces themselves should be able to deal with the situation in order to ensure stability and governance. As a result, we also need to have realistic expectations about which Afghanistan we are to leave to the Afghan authorities by the end of 2014. This is essential: our attention must be on what Afghans need in order to do the job themselves – not on what we must have delivered in order to leave. At the same time, it is clear that it will be difficult for Afghanistan to continuously finance a security device with more than 300,000 personnel in the army and police. However, this is a cheaper solution than a high level of international safety presence and should be considered as a proper investment by those currently contributing to a costly military presence. In any case, it is essential that the international community continue its security assistance by 2015 and also assist in re-training the security forces of other professions as soon as this is reasonably possible and safe. The Province of Faryab – where Norway’s PRT is located and where we have the main emphasis on our military contribution – is not considered ready for the transfer of security responsibilities to the Afghan authorities in the current year, but we are working systematically to allow such a transfer. This means that ISAF will remain in Faryab in the future. This is the background to the government’s decision to continue the Norwegian PRT contribution in 2012. There are several areas in Faryab that are today characterised by significant insurgency activities and a greater number of operations are carried out in the province. These are led by the Afghan army, supported by Norwegian and US forces to contribute to stability and lay the basis for the Afghan takeover of security. Specially demanding is the Ghowrmach district west of Faryab, which is a center of insurrection. In this district, where US forces operate with Afghans, there is still a completion today of about 37 kilometres of the critically important ring road, which runs throughout Afghanistan. Completion of the road will be an important contribution to development and safety in this area. In the future, ISAF will focus on protecting the completion of this route. The western parts of North Afghanistan, including the Faryab province with the Ghowrmach district, will be fed by several ISAF soldiers. A completed bypass across the Faryab province will be an important prerequisite for the transition, that is, the transfer of security responsibilities, that we want. The Norwegian contribution to Faryab will be streamlined to further strengthen efforts for the training and mentoring of Afghan security forces, which in turn is key for the fastest possible transfer of security responsibilities to them. Both the United States and Afghanistan have stated that they will cooperate beyond the target date for the final transfer of responsibility for Afghanistan’s security to their own authorities. The nature of this is not yet clear, as negotiations between the two countries on a new strategic partnership agreement have just begun. It is important that the US engages in dialogue with the neighbouring country of Afghanistan in the context of the new agreement. It is expected to take place within the Bonn Conference in December of this year – 10 years after the conference in the same place, as did the course following the fall of the Taliban regime. We will work to ensure that the conference is clear on what is needed to give Afghans the best conditions to succeed in their further state and social development. The United States is planning to reduce its military forces in the summer of 2011. The extent of such a reduction is currently unclear. The US emphasises that the extraction must be ‘responsible’ and that it must be based on developments on the ground. The United States has announced a more comprehensive review of US efforts during the spring and summer. It is essential that the United States, in its planning, takes due account of the wishes and needs of both Afghan authorities and other countries and organisations contributing to the construction of the future of Afghanistan, including Norway. There has been a lot of focus on civilian losses as a result of the fighting in Afghanistan. Under 2,800 civilians were killed in 2010, an estimated 15 p.m. increase. from 2009. The great majority, over 80 p.m., of those who were killed, lost their lives according to the UN as a result of the activities of the rebels. It is estimated that Afghan security forces and ISAF have contributed to around 16 pst. of all such civil losses. There is a significant decrease compared to the previous year, but also too many. Norway has been a driver of measures that may limit the number of civilian killed by ISAF. It is positive to see that these measures have been effective. At the same time, we must be realistic and realise that civilian losses are an inevitable consequence of the struggles. But what can be done has to be done to get these losses down to an absolute minimum. Peace and stability in Afghanistan require a broad political process and a form of reconciliation. Norway was one of several countries which, during the Kabul Conference last summer, was in charge of such a process, which must be owned and operated by the Afghans themselves. There is a broad consensus on this today. In central western capitals, attitudes have fundamentally changed in recent years. Today, there is a broad international consensus that different ethnic and social groups must feel that they have a share in the process, including groups that today constitute the armed uprising. The Peace Shirgaen, the Peace Assembly held in Kabul in the summer of 2010, gave the Afghan authorities a clear mandate to pursue the peace and reconciliation path. Among other things, a Peace Council was set up. Despite multiethnic composition, the Peace Council has been criticized because several of its participants are former political leaders and warlords suspected of being responsible for or involved in extensive human rights violations under previous regimes, and less than 20 pst. by the participants are women. Nevertheless, President Karzai’s assessment has been that it is essential to involve yesterday’s leaders in the situation in Afghanistan today. If they stay outside, the chances are still too great to seek to prevent or destroy a future reconciliation process. We have to understand such an assessment. Again, Afghan reconciliation must be owned by the Afghans. So far, the activities of the Council of Peace point in a positive direction, even though we have the benefit of seeing concrete results of the Council's activities. A very central question is how the Afghan authorities deal with the Taliban. There have been several meetings between representatives of Afghan authorities and lower-level Taliban representatives. Of course, equal importance for a possible peace process is the Taliban's intentions and how they are affected by development, in particular the sustained military pressure under which the movement has been. Real negotiations are probably well ahead of us in time, and the outcome is filled with considerable uncertainty. However, the aim must be to enter into dialogue with a view to more of a common vision for the future of Afghanistan. The Afghan reconciliation process depends on support from neighbouring countries. It is therefore positive that the Peace Council has already conducted consultations with several of them in order to build an understanding of the need for a broad Afghan-led and driven process. The Organization of Islamic States, the OIC, has come on track and wants to contribute to a solution. Various initiatives have been taken from some countries to facilitate a reconciliation process. The issue is also regularly discussed within the Afghanistan Contact Group, with the participation of the Afghan Government, the UN and the international community. Norwegian missions have regular meetings with Afghan officials, politicians, parliamentarians and representatives of civil society. It is our aim to organise such initiatives for new meeting places between the different parts of Afghan society. My assessment is that this is seen as positive by both Afghans and our other allies. The United States' attitude is natural enough of great importance. In February, in Minister of Foreign Affairs Clinton's speech on Afghanistan, she set the course for US involvement in Afghanistan in the future. She called for a diplomatic offensive to find a political solution to the conflict, without laying down detailed conditions for initiating negotiations with the rebels. This is in line with the Norwegian line. We must make clear demands on the possible outcome of such negotiations, but not block them by making negotiations difficult until they have started at all. South Asia is the least integrated region in the world today. There are not enough mechanisms to engage and accountable neighbouring countries. The instability in Afghanistan cannot be solved either by the Afghans or by the UN and NATO alone. The test will be whether there is a capacity and willingness for cross-border political cooperation, where neighbouring countries must take a look at their intra-regional rivalries and see common interest in a stable and peaceful Afghanistan. The situation in Afghanistan and its further development will have a different impact on neighbouring countries and their interests. Pakistan plays a key role in stability in Afghanistan. At the same time, a stable Afghanistan is very important to Pakistan itself. These two countries are both dependent on a political solution and reconciliation with the Taliban that reduces the threat from there. For the region and beyond, stability in the nuclear power of Pakistan is of great importance. When President Obama in his Afghanistan speech in December stressed the need for Pakistan to do more to eliminate rebel refuges in the tribal areas on the Afghanistan border, this was due to as much unrest over the situation in Pakistan as the situation in neighbouring Afghanistan. It's a disturbance we share. We also see a much more visible and committed Iran in its practical support for Afghanistan. Iran has an important role to play in the fight against drug traffic. It is in Iran's own interest, for it is affected by a large number of drug addicts and social and economic losses. Iran has deep contradictions with the Taliban movement. At the same time, we see that Iranian forces provide equipment and weapons to anti-government groups in Afghanistan. The motivation is obvious to prevent what they perceive as American ambitions in the region, in particular the prospect of a lasting military presence. A lasting and sustainable political solution in Afghanistan also requires cooperation from the Iranian side. Of course, India, China, Saudi Arabia, Russia and the Central Asian republics must also be more actively involved. At the same time, the region lacks credible policy processes, channels and cooperation procedures. Norway has taken initiatives to strengthen the involvement of neighbouring countries in the stabilisation of Afghanistan. Over several months, Norwegian missions have organised dialogue between neighbouring countries with the involvement of the United States and UNAMA. These round tables complement other regional initiatives, such as: Driven by Turkey, which I could discuss with Turkish colleagues during my visit to Ankara last week. The aim of these initiatives is to increase the interaction between the countries of the region, both economically and politically, and to support the stability needed for the people of Afghanistan to experience peace and economic development, while also contributing to stability in and for neighbouring countries. The government has previously announced that it is proposed to allocate 750 million. kr annually to Norwegian civil effort for the period 2008-2012. A central objective of the assistance is to build an Afghan government capacity to lead and take responsibility for the development itself. The Kabul Conference in July 2010 reached agreement between donor countries and the Afghan Government on at least 80 pst. civil assistance shall be established in line with Afghan programmes and priorities and at least 50 pst. shall be channelled through the budgets of the authorities. Norway has been a driver of this, and we have been the leader in implementing these principles in Norwegian aid. It is well ahead of these objectives, much assistance is short-term and not in line with well-tested principles of successful assistance. From the Norwegian side, we have worked to concentrate Norwegian efforts on key development areas such as education, rural development, good governance and women’s rights. The Afghan Government must be held responsible for its actions. But increased Afghan self-government does not mean the absence of demands. We will prosecute Afghan violations of international standards and obligations. This is not least true in the area of human rights, where we have seen a number of worrying developments, including: related to the situation of women. Strengthening women's influence and power in Afghan society takes time. We contribute with our experience and support both the UN, Afghan authorities and civil society in their efforts to strengthen women's and girls' rights in Afghanistan. Here it is important that our efforts are not just directed at women themselves. Afghan men must also be involved. Norway is the largest donor to the UN Women's Agency in Afghanistan. Through this support, we have contributed to the creation of a dedicated women's resource centre in politics and supported under the Afghan National Action Plan for Women. Through the UN Foundation for the Control of Violence against Women, we have contributed to the establishment of at least five women's crisis centres and the further development of the Ministry of Women's Statistical Database on Violence against Women. This is an important tool in monitoring the extent of violence in Afghanistan, where much remains. Let me add that Norwegian posted employees often meet Afghan women and help with advice and support in their efforts to increase their rights, and we do so, among other things. together with the other Nordic countries. We also provide significant assistance on the police side in Afghanistan and have, among other things, 23 police advisers in the country, seven in Kabul, and 16 in Meymaneh, Faryab. The main emphasis of our efforts is concentrated on the EU police mission in Faryab Province. With this, we are making a contribution to building up and training the police for the protection of the civilian population and their rights. The mission is challenging and demanding, including for the Norwegian police advisers, who, in cooperation with the Afghan authorities and the European Union Police Mission, are working to increase police and police competence in Faryab. Efforts are being made to ensure that police services are provided for the benefit of the entire population and that the principles of the rule of law are respected, including equality requirements. We are channelling a greater proportion of Norwegian aid through the World Bank's Multi-stakeholder Fund and through the UN to Afghan budgets and programmes. Our wish is that the Afghan authorities themselves should be able to manage the funds, but they must recognise that it will continue to take time before the Afghan authority can take full responsibility for running all development projects and even providing all necessary public services. Transition therefore means, on the civil side, that we are facilitating that the Afghans themselves can take over and operate what is built up in the last few years of international society. We focus more on projects that can generate employment, economic growth and revenue to the state fund. If not, the Afghans may risk being left with a wide range of valuable projects that they do not have the capacity or the ability to maintain or continue. In the long term, Afghanistan has a significant potential in its rich natural resources. It is important to provide the framework for a good management and distribution climate in order to benefit the population. We assist Afghan authorities in developing a national energy policy through the Oil for the Development Programme. The possibility of repatriating Afghanistan economically and socially lies in the long-term development of its natural resources, together with human resources. As you know, corruption is perhaps the most important obstacle to the realisation of such projects for the benefit of Afghanistan. I initially showed good economic growth and good speed in the gears that need to roll to drive Afghan growth and employment. Increased turnover and activity also increase the potential for corruption. We must make clear demands and support active action against this devastating phenomenon. Where this is effective, we will continue to channel parts of our assistance through Norwegian, international and Afghan non-governmental organisations. Some of the assistance will continue to go to pure humanitarian relief in the future. Building on the experience of a wide range of other complex civil-military operations, as well as the experience of us and others in Afghanistan – and anchored in key principles of humanitarian aid – we will continue to make a clear distinction between humanitarian action, development effort and military action. A combination weakens over time both military and civil efforts. The idea that we can use military assistance as a means of winning “minds and hearts” is short-sighted, especially in a country where loyalty and alliances change so often. Norway’s view in this field is gaining ground among several of our allies and in a number of international forums, and is supported by key findings in international research in this field. A clear limit to mixing does not mean a no to close coordination. On the contrary, as I said here in Stortinget earlier, we want a close cooperation, but we want to avoid contact. For Norway, it is still essential that we protect humanitarian space, while at the same time supporting military and civil efforts and not undermining one another. Afghanistan has received significant international civil assistance. Figures from the Afghan Ministry of Finance show that from 2002 to 2010, the international community paid more than 310 billion. kr. The U.S. stood for over 202 billion. kr, Norway has contributed more than SEK 5.3 billion. kr. Despite this international development effort, huge challenges remain in Afghanistan. They cannot be solved by aid alone. As well as transition as political development, there are constant changes in the assumptions for assistance. Norwegian assistance must therefore be both flexible and adaptable. Our efforts are still being evaluated, and for the autumn there is a major review of Norwegian aid efforts in Afghanistan in the last ten years. This will provide us with valuable insight into how the Norwegian effort has worked and how it can be structured. We record great uncertainty and unrest in the Afghans about what is the intentions of the international community on the civil side after the gradual withdrawal of military forces. They fear again to be left to themselves as they experienced when the Soviet Union withdrew from the country. It is too early today to say that aid will continue at the same high level beyond 2012. But the government assumes that we will have a commitment in development and humanitarian assistance for many years to come, beyond 2014, which is the year for the carry-over of military responsibility. Ten years of effort in Afghanistan have been ten demanding years. The Nordics in military and civil service have put a great deal of work in place, with personal burdens for each one and their families and the nearest circuit. It has made the impression on all of us who regularly visit the country, to see the commitment and seriousness that consistently motivates those who are in service in Afghanistan. They're motivated by being able to make a difference for fellow humans. They deserve our respect, our concern and whenever the situation requires, our compassion and our support. We've had painful losses, each one too many. We remember and honour our failings in Afghanistan – our soldiers and officers who have paid the highest price for Norway's involvement. Five names have arrived since the last time I made this statement. There are now ten names for this tragic list: Siri Skare, Tor André Bolle, Christian Lian, Simen Tokle, Andreas Eldjarn, Claes Joachim Olsson, Trond Petter Kolset, Kristoffer Sørli Jørgensen, Torne Lau-Henriksen and Tommy Rødningsby. Norway will forever remember their efforts and victims with gratitude and respect. In addition, many have been wounded as a result of military activity. The health of the defence is now conducting investigations into all 7,300 records to record injury and disease among personnel serving in Afghanistan. In the middle of all the challenges and losses, we must be motivated by the belief in the possibilities, that within reach there is a brighter future for a proud people with a rich culture that has suffered too much and too long. The Afghans themselves and we, the international community, have many and good results to show. We have sought to implement what is the UN mandate for our commitment, that Afghanistan should no longer be a haven for international terrorism. We've reached that goal and fixed it. The next task is to consolidate and build on what we've achieved. We have to show all sorts of soberness and realism when we're going to list what the international community can do in Afghanistan, and what the country's government and its people have to take responsibility for themselves. We're going to continue working for decisive progress while we're holding on and not giving in on the rise side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e473	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on developments in Afghanistan, as well as Norwegian civil and military engagement be discussed at a later meeting. No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e489	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e498	The proposition that Stortinget has to deal with today deals with a very important matter. I am pleased and proud that on behalf of the red-green government today I can present this matter to the Stortinget. The issue concerns a policy area that Norway has had and has focused on, and has also done something about: illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, also known as UUU fishing. In this case, Norway has been a major driver for getting the agreement in place. The agreement is the first globally binding instrument in the field of fisheries for a very long time – yes, one must go back to 1995. The agreement is expected to be very important in the fight against UUU fishing. ‘Consent to ratification of port State control agreement in fisheries’ is about approving a global binding agreement on port State measures to prevent, prevent or eliminate illegal fishing. Since this agreement is considered to be a very important matter, the approval of the Enlargement is necessary. In the autumn of 2006, the UN General Assembly asked the FAO Food Organisation to draw up a global binding agreement on port State control for vessels landing fish in ports from the fishing grounds. The background to this request was that global cooperation between port countries was necessary to meet the challenges posed by UUU fishing using international landing patterns. This means that through port State control, countries will cooperate not to accept fish in these ports when the catch is in conflict with the responsible management. In addition, this agreement targets all fish and fish-related activities. The text of the Agreement combines important elements such as the closure of blacklisted ports, mechanisms for the responsibility of the flag State in the control of ports of other countries and specific minimum standards on the exchange of information, the implementation of controls, prevention, training/assistance and cooperation. Following the agreement, the parties shall require that vessel and catch information be sent to the port State before the ship has access to the port. Many of the measures that Norway has established and implemented in recent years will become international minimum standards through this agreement. Norway is served by upgrading measures against UUU fishing. A key point for Norway with a global agreement has been to help solve the problems of UUU fishing globally and not just in our neighbourhoods. In the context of trade measures such as: The EU has decided to ensure that this illegal fishing is not imported into the internal market, creating a border around the main markets against illegal fish and fishery products. This will benefit law-abiding fishermen around the world, as well as protecting the reproductive capacity of fish stocks and helping consumers to trust that the fish they buy is an ethically good product, harvested within a sound framework. The fight against black fishing has already gained — economically and resourceally. I can hardly wait to wonder if these measures we have taken in our near waters have contributed to the adventurous fishing that we now have in Lofoten. Yes, no one can remember that they've seen the face of screaming – so much screaming – and it's allowed to wonder if it can be like that. Now it is at least more difficult to land illegal fish in foreign ports. In addition, more fish will be landed in Norwegian ports. It will have positive ring-effects, including for the Norwegian fishing industry. The Agreement enters into force when 25 States have acceded. Finally, I would like to say that there is an overall committee that is presenting this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e532	First of all, I will join in most of what the rapporteur has explained. It is a unanimous committee in favour of the ratification of the agreement on which it is based. I'm not as sure that the UUU fishing or what the government has done, linked to the Barents Sea, is what we can thank the great insight of the screams in Lofoten for. There might be several things that are the cause of it. Unfortunately, I am not convinced that this agreement itself is the columbi eggs that we have been waiting for, which will now solve the problem of the unregulated and illegal fishing that we have seen around. Norway has made considerable efforts in relation to UUU fishing. We've done a lot of good, we've had good controls. But one of the reasons we have succeeded is that we have been able to establish good agreements with Russia. Russia has made significant efforts with Norway in the Barents Sea. The good will and the good cooperation have helped us here. But we also have to assume that we currently have a solid conflict going on in the Norwegian Sea with regard to another population, the mackerel population, for example. Iceland sets its own catch targets – what they can take – without looking at overall agreements between the other coastal states in the region. And we also have one thing to do with Faeroese fishing. But fortunately, we have good numbers for most of our populations, which we manage either alone, or, in 99 pst. of the cases, together with other countries. Unfortunately, that's not all over the world. In some EU waters, we see very clearly that they have huge problems, and we also see them in some other countries around the world. However, this agreement is unfortunately no better than the number of countries that ratify it, making it – not least what the exchange of information and information will be like, and what kind of sanctions will be imposed on the ships, shipping companies and possibly non-accompanying countries. Under this Agreement, each country may terminate the agreement one year after ratification and 25 countries must ratify the agreement before the entry into force of the agreement. But we must not rely on the fact that there are 25 countries that are going to ratify. It is essential which countries ratify the agreement, because if the big nations, those who fish a little hazardous in their waters, do not ratify the agreement, the agreement will be much worse than we can hope it will be. So there's probably a good deal of cutting in the sea yet. One of the points that comes up a little bit is penalties. There is little about this in the agreement itself – I have read all the 37 articles on which this agreement is based. Another problem: it is not enough to follow up the individual vessel. We have far too much control over those behind the ships, including in our own system, the so-called Black List system. One admits from the directorate that it is largely impossible to arrest those who are behind these vessels. The name of the vessel and the history of the vessel are recorded, but the owner of the vessel cannot be grasped. The vessel itself is just a tool. It's those who serve and own these, who have the prize. It's them one must try to get hold of. The progress part and the right part have a separate comment in the setting. There we take, among other things: in order to ensure that, in the context of the evaluation to be carried out after four years, Norway should, in order to be prepared, carry out on its own initiative a separate evaluation after three years in order to look at the progress of this agreement in order to provide us with constructive input. It is very surprising that a majority in the Committee has not agreed to this, because it will form the basis for how we can do it even better and make representations when the evaluation is to take place. So I hope the Council of State can be more appropriate in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e551	It is true, as is said from this pulpit: this is an important agreement. It is an important agreement because it is a long way forward in terms of international control of marine resources. It is important for Norway. This is part of a long-term effort to ensure the control of fishing and trade in our fisheries. In a globalised economy, these kind of agreements are absolutely essential to sustain ecological sustainability. For Norway, this has been an explicit objective of the fisheries policy through several governments. The agreement is based on a well-known international law and contractual framework. We in the Right think it's important and right to create the greatest possible legitimacy in the world. Therefore, it is also important that we carry out resource control in Norway in the best possible way. The Agreement combines important control and penalty tools, such as the closure of ports, the blacklisting of ships and the accountability of flag States. In such an image, it becomes important how Norway and Norwegian controls appear, from other countries and other nations. Some of the examples we have seen in the Norwegian press in recent months, where it may be problematic to see that the control and sanctioning regime meets the requirement of reasonableness and normal legal perception, can do more harm than benefit in this way. From the Right, we also focus on why you cannot be so proactive that you are in favour of an evaluation of the agreement – that you can show from the Norwegian side that this is an important agreement, you go through it thoroughly, and you put it together and well prepared when you are going to evaluate it internationally. That's a little bit of a strange point. I opened by mentioning the importance of the agreement in a global perspective. It is important from the Right to point out that in a global perspective Norway is also becoming visible in our role as a leader in catch and resource control, and then we should think a little about how we appear to the other nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e562	The agreement currently under consideration by the Storting provides for an obligation worldwide to use its ports actively to combat illegal fishing. When the agreement is in force, it no longer holds to say that you did not know that the fish landed was caught in a predatory fishing long at sea. If the flag State of the ship is not able to vouch for the responsibility of the fishing, the port State shall have sufficient grounds to refuse to land the vessel in its ports. I am proud to say that this agreement had not been achieved without Norway's efforts. This is the first global binding agreement that has been established in the fisheries sector for 15 years. The agreement is expected to be a milestone in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. 25 parties must ratify the agreement before it enters into force. It will necessarily take time. The EU ratifys on behalf of all Member States and counts only as one party. Today, 23 countries have signed or acceded to the agreement, and after the Storting treatment here today, Norway can become one of the first to ratify. The government prioritises its efforts to combat illegal fishing very high. This is a work carried out on several fronts and with a variety of measures. We have established bilateral cooperation on resource control with 16 different fishing nations and work actively to extend close cooperation to new countries. We have also been working on the development of new measures and overall support for the work of the UN, FAO and regional fisheries management organisations. It is therefore gratifying that considerable progress has been made in this area, both in the form of concrete results in the Barents Sea, where neither 2009 nor 2010 has been overfished, and in the form of new international instruments, including: the port State agreement currently under consideration. The government has had broad support in Stortingen for our work on UUU fishing, and we can today rejoice over a completely concrete result of our joint effort. But we're not in the goal. Illegal fishing requires constant attention, and we know that the actors involved are constantly looking for new operations. UUU fishing is still a significant threat to sustainable management and food security globally, and the problems we only had a few years ago in our own waters can come back. An important step in this context is that the FAO has decided to develop criteria for what a responsible flag State is. Negotiations on this will take place in Rome in May 2011. We want to be able to point out which flag states fulfil their obligations under international law and which do not, and to consider possible measures against flag States that do not fulfil their obligations. We are also working on possible measures related to the trade in seafood, and an important piece is building obstacles to illegal caught fish entering the market. From the Norwegian side, we have supported the EU certification system, but, like most measures against illegal fishing, such systems should also have an overall global anchoring. The port State agreement, which is under consideration today, shows that agreement can be reached and the agreement is an important step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e590	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e593	I would like to ask some questions to the Council of State. My questions to the Council of State are as follows: In order to exchange information, i.e. to exchange information – which is based on one of the articles of the agreement – what kind of information is to be exchanged, and how should you deal with this in the ports where ships arrive, in relation to ships coming from a country, i.e. a flag State, which has not ratified the agreement? How, then, should one act against a vessel if one does not receive the information in question? Should the ship be automatically rejected, or should the ship be allowed to call at port in its country? How do you intend to act in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e600	To the last question first, it is true that a list of criteria to be used or a risk-based system is perhaps the easiest way to describe it as, in the sense that it is the vessel on which history has been established in the past that there is reason to go further in the seams, or other reasons – if you have information that there is a ship at risk – it should be given priority. Otherwise, a check shall be carried out on a required number of vessels, taking into account both the knowledge with which you may be present and the knowledge with which you may not be present. Because it's always going to be a ship you don't have enough knowledge of, so it's going to be a set of risk-based systems. In the case of information exchange – I am sorry, but there was no speaking time – I might get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e607	Then the Council of State will have the opportunity to come back to it. For the purpose of carrying out the inspection itself, Article 13, i.e. indicates the location of the ship to be carried out, the parts on which it is to be carried out and the information to be collected relating to the inspection. While Article 16 on electronic information exchange very often uses the term ‘if possible’ to put these things in place. And that's what I'm asking the big question: what should be exchanged for information, how should you do it, how should you deal with the flag State where the ship is registered and which has not ratified the agreement? If we take our own country: Black List in Norway only runs the ship’s name and history – to the extent that you’ve managed to track it. You don't carry ownership of the ship, because that's what you say is too difficult. So the question is, how are you going to be able to do just these things to get the backers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e617	That is precisely what the representative was talking about, namely ‘if possible’. Hopefully, these systems are going to get better as you use them. Today we have a lot of knowledge, but definitely not all knowledge. It's like it was said in an intervention from the pulpit earlier, that this is probably not the columbi egg that solves absolutely all the challenges. It's not presented as either. There is a set of measures that need to be taken. Among other things, we are taking part in Rome now in May to develop a good system and a good description of a flag State and of a flag State's responsibilities in relation to the various boats registered with it. That means that some ships have a good knowledge of them, and some people have definitely less knowledge of them. In the case of a separate list of vessels registered in Norway as Norwegian vessels, we have a good overview of ownership, but of course we have less knowledge of ships from other nationalities, and that is an important area that we need to work on further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e622	I would like to pursue that theme further, because I think the Council of State has a passive attitude to this. She's talking about hopefully getting to systems about the flow of information, etc. The point here is that the Progress Party and the Right have written a note where they focus on doing an international job themselves – from Norway – to obtain this information, including on other countries’ boats. I am surprised that the red-green representatives have not joined at least the first part of that remark. There shall be no answer from the Council of State. But can the Council of State respond to whether she wants to do something internationally to improve the systems, so as to improve international control? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e627	The important thing here is that we have a set of measures, and that we work on a broad front in several areas. What's important about the deal that's being dealt with here today, and which, hopefully, is that we're going to ratify, is that a thing to stop landings of illegal, unreported, unregulated fish, even if one doesn't have jurisdiction over fishing in those areas, so that one gets to stop it that way. In terms of evaluation, we are constantly evaluating what are the best measures, and we are working on a broad front. We want to see at any time whether we have the best means to try to stop this fishing, or stop the fishing, which is what this is all about today – we are not stopping fishing, but hopefully we are stopping the deliveries of this illegally caught fish – and thus preventing it from entering the market into displacement for legally caught fish. That's how we have to work, on the broad front, with different angles of incidence. This is one way and one angle of incidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e634	The cord shift is over. The following representatives shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e639	After hearing the opposition, I wanted to clarify: Norway and other countries have worked during these negotiations to ensure that the agreement goes even further than it does. However, it is clear from the agreement that it provides for minimum standards on the measures to be taken by port States. A number of countries, including Norway, can and will go beyond the terms of the agreement. For this reason, as early as 2006 the government proposed new legal provisions to refuse access to ports to owners who are illegally operating with one hand and legally with the other. So I want to remind you of the concerns about this in particular with evaluation: if you go in and read the articles, it says in Article 33, which deals with changes, clearly and clearly what is in the term ‘changes’. If you go to Article 35, which deals with termination, it also offers great opportunities along the way. If, in addition to Part 9, which deals with supervision, review and evaluation, paragraph 2 states that four years after the entry into force of this agreement, the FAO shall convene the parties to review and evaluate the effectiveness of this agreement in achieving the objectives it has set. In addition, the parties may decide further such meetings as needed, and I believe that this includes information.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e646	For a brief explanation only: Article 33, on which the representative Lillian Hansen referred, refers to how changes should take place, the number of days when they can be done, and, where appropriate, how they must be subsequently ratified, 90 days after these changes, in each country. Most of the time, we agree. We agree on the text itself, and we agree that it is the right way to go. The question, among other things: The Right Party and the Advance Party have referred to in their comments, are going on whether we should not go any further in order to grasp not only the ship's history, on which we ourselves base our legislation, but also look at who owns the ship. It is not as long as the undersigned was here in the Questionnaire and asked about the so-called Black List that we operate with in Norway today. It says the ship's history, the name of the vessel and the flag State. It says very little about who is behind the vessel. What's very important is that such an agreement never gets better than the weakest term. It is clear that the agreement itself has to be ratified, and that is the basic text of the 37 articles that are in existence, which is being ratified. It is very good that Norway has strict legislation, and we can have even stricter legislation in Norway. I hope that many other countries will also have much stricter legislation. But the thing is, the way the agreement is, it is important that we work actively in the process of getting several countries to track and do the job against these ships in order to stop them. This is precisely what is essential not only for the number of countries, but only for the entry into force of the agreement, with 25 countries. What's interesting is which countries are ratifying. The EU is included in the text of the agreement, they have not ratified. The question is, of course, when ratifying the EU, when ratifying Russia, when ratifying Iceland, when ratifying part of the other major fishing nations, Chile, Peru, etc.? This is very important, so it is the big, heavy coastal states that are involved. So a little thing about Article 6, it says in paragraph 2: ‘Each Party shall, as far as possible, take measures in support of conservation and management measures adopted by other States and other relevant international organisations.’;» Then I have a question that could be interesting to get the Minister of Fisheries and Coast to answer: Can we risk Norwegian self-anxiety being affected by this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e662	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e678	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e687	In 2010, agriculture in Troms suffered severe climate damage. Snow and ice burning caused large areas of land to be destroyed. Late and difficult spring spring, repair measures had little effect – combined with poor growth during the summer, they contributed to further low yields. Both meadows and potatoes therefore became critically low crops in large parts of the county. This created such a serious situation that in the autumn of 2010, the parties to the agricultural negotiations chose to take action with the doubling of the replacement rate for crop defects on meadows in Troms in force for the 2010 crop year. Map of the Arbitration Fund for agricultural production: the purpose of this Fund is to provide financial compensation to agricultural enterprises that have suffered financial loss because of non-existent conditions. This is part of the agricultural agreement. The aid granted in the event of a climatic condition failure in plant production is the largest sub-scheme, where it can be compensated for losses up to 70 pst. of a normal year. The doubling of the replacement rate from NOK 2 to NOK 4 per feed unit resulted in increased payments to Troms of approximately SEK 23 million. kr. When the parties to the agricultural negotiations reviewed the situation in December, it was agreed to increase the payment rate by a further 70 øre per feed unit. This represented about 8 million. kr in increased payments from the fund. In particular, because of the level of damage referred to above, the equity of the Non-Proliferation Fund for agricultural production, which at the beginning of 2010, was 76 million. kr, at the beginning of 2011 reduced to 21 million. kr. Appropriations committed to the Fund in 2011 are 30 million. kr. Forecasted payments in a normal year are 45 million. kr. It is therefore proposed to increase the Fund’s allocation by 8 million. kr, corresponding to the increase in payment of 70 øre per feed unit agreed by the parties in December. The forecast for consumption at item 78, Welfare schemes, shows a consumption of 32 million. kr lower than the allocated framework and it is therefore proposed that increased payments for crop damage in Troms, equivalent to approximately 8 million. kr, is covered by a re-disposal of equivalent amounts from item 78 to the Harm Fund for Agricultural Production of item 50. It is a unanimous committee that is behind the position that is now being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e704	The matter concerns the re-priorities of funds in the agricultural agreement. As said by the case rapporteur, the climate problem in the north was solved by tele in August, where crops, potatoes and everything you were doing were destroyed. There was great damage, especially parts of Troms and Nordland were affected here. There were problems with animals and other things for the farmers, so the Progress Party is behind the proposal to re-prioritize the funds within the limits laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e709	The thing that we're going to deal with here today has a serious background, and it's a matter in which the Center Party has been very committed. I therefore find reason to attach some comments to this matter. The background to the case is the major climate damage caused by agriculture in Troms in 2010. They led to the worst year of over 100 years for agriculture in Troms. It started in the winter of 2009/2010, when barfrost led to a lot of telecommunications in the soil. In a number of areas of Troms there were telecommunications several meters down into the earth, and the tent was in the earth to far off on the late summer. Ice floes depleted large meadows, and a late and difficult spring caused the repair measures to have little effect, and poor growth conditions contributed to exceptionally small crops both for meadows and potatoes. The situation in the estate of Bones in the agricultural municipality of Bardu gives a picture of the situation. Here there was tele in the field until the beginning of August, when they got the first frost night. Here also came the first fresh snow in the fields before the farmers had to beat their land at all, and it in a large agricultural district. This led to the situation being precarious to very many farmers in Troms. In the municipality of Bardu, the yield failure was over 70 p.m., in several places in the county the yield failure was over 90 p.m. I would also like to stress that it made sense to meet farmers and trustees in the Troms Bondelag, who faced such a difficult situation as this, but who nevertheless struggled to find solutions. It gives hope for the future. I would like to take this opportunity to commend Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck for taking the situation seriously and for helping the parties in the agricultural negotiations to come up with solutions that will enable the farmers in Trom to continue their efforts in the industry. This means a great deal in a state like Troms, where agriculture contributes to more than 3000 jobs, both in primary production and in the food industry. The agreement between the State and the Norwegian Bondelag of 3 September 2010 reached an agreement to double the rate of yield losses for roughage in Troms from 2 to 4 kr per feed unit. However, it turned out that further assistance was needed. On 22 December last year, the parties agreed to increase the subsidy rate by a further 70 ears per feed unit, which amounts to 8 million. kr. In addition, the county council and the municipalities have contributed, and there has been a great commitment in Troms to this matter. The centre part is fully connected to the setting in the case. Finally, I would like to refer to the opinion of the head of Troms Bondelag, Asgeir Lachtnes, when the agreement between the parties became known on 22 December. The results of the tests were as follows: ‘The day’s allocation shows that the red-green government, with Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck and the Central Party at its head, is willing to go far when the disaster is as great as it has been this year for the Troms agriculture. A witness to an actionable Minister for Agriculture.’ I'm glad, too, and I hope that it'll be a long time before we relive such difficult situations as the Troms farm experienced last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e733	The purpose of the Arbitration Fund for agricultural production is to provide financial compensation to agricultural enterprises that have suffered financial losses because of conditions beyond the control of individual enterprises. There are several sub-schemes financed from the Fund. Subsidies in the event of climatically contingent failure of plant production are economically the largest. This is not a fully-fledged compensation scheme, but, to a greater extent, compensation for bringing enterprises through a difficult economic situation. The replacement rate for damage in roughage production is set on the basis of a calculation of the feed value of the loss of yield, not of the cost of purchasing equivalent quantities of feed. The idea is, of course, that enterprises, run by self-employed persons, should also contribute through different measures. What made the situation of crop damage in Troms so special in 2010 for roughage was the extent of damage in the region, which is also underlined by several of the speakers before me here today. This meant that there was no rough feed for sale locally and that purchases from other areas were very expensive. For some producers, the basis for further management of livestock production was mentioned. I am pleased that the parties to the agricultural negotiations have contributed by increasing the compensation rates for crop damage on roughage in the difficult situation many farmers in Troms had come up with. The first increase in the replacement rate, adopted in September 2010, was financed within the equity of the fund. The proposal in this proposition for a further increase in the replacement rate of Troms equivalent to 8 million. kr is also financed within the framework of the agricultural agreement by reallocation of equivalent amounts from savings under heading 78, Welfare schemes. The measures have been well received by agriculture in Troms in particular, and I am very pleased that an overall committee has joined the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e742	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e745	When we got to know the situation in the north, especially what is happening in Troms, I sent a written question to the council and asked what he could and would do to solve the problems the farmers up there had. Then one of the answers from the council was that the farmers were self-employed and should themselves be insured against the events, in line with the fact that other traders are insuring themselves against things that could happen, whether it is a water leak or that a house is burning down. My first question to the Council of State concerns the criteria for distributing compensation. Will farmers who are already insured get the same compensation as those who are not? The second question to the Council of State is: How many throughout Norway are insured against such – are there few, or are there many?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e754	What is important in this discussion, and which I believe is also pointed out by the representative, is that farmers as self-employed cannot fully guard against changes in weather and wind and climatic conditions that affect the crop. It happens in a country like Norway where we have food production very far north, and where one has a lot of stress. This compensation scheme — or compensation scheme — is, upon application, an attempt to relieve in the areas where such situations arise as in Troms. It's important that we have such a system on. At the same time, however, it is not for all traders to assume their own responsibility to insure themselves. It has been stated by the parties to the agricultural agreement that there is a desire for more people to insure themselves. In terms of the number, I can't answer the standing feet. There are many others who should be sure of such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e759	Then I want to follow up the answer by asking: When you continue with new agricultural negotiations, and when you are going to set aside funds here, you might be more stringent and use more criteria to ensure that farmers – who are self-employed, as the Council of State says – are in a way obliged to make a little more sure when you see that there are so few who are, so that if there are others, I kept saying, mild natural disasters, as what has happened here, can take a little through the insurance companies and not all of the taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e764	As I understand the intention in the question from Tjäldal, I agree that more people who are private traders should seek to obtain insurance covering the type of accident that allows them to cope with crop damage and changes in the weather and wind that cause unfortunate situations for the individual. At the same time, I'm pretty sure we should have such a system as a basic help in special cases. It will probably be discussed in the forthcoming agricultural agreement negotiations, in particular given that we were so disengaged from the scheme this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e770	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e788	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e797	Private ownership has deep roots in Norwegian culture and in the consciousness of the Norwegian people. The same is true of the rights of the general good in the general public. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 June 1975 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of ‘The law governing public use is built or fenced which has been so right from an old age. The right shall be available in a manner consistent with rational use at any time, which is natural after the time and exercise.’;» In those places around the country where public opinion is located, the rights of the villagers have been strongly linked to this concept, ‘time and urgency’. Over the years, there has been sometimes a lot of discussion related to the type of practice that is in line with the ‘time and time’. In the 2000s, two working groups have been set up to look at the issue. The first one was set up by Statskog in 2002 and it presented a report on the revision of the seat regulation which resulted in some amendments to the seat regulation and a circular that made changes in practice. This is later referred to as the ‘2007 Revision’. A new working group was set up in 2006. The work of this working group resulted in further adjustments made by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to the Seats Ordinance in circular form, the so-called ‘Revision 2009’. The majority of the Committee refers to the letter of the Council of State dated 18 November 2010, which refers to the fact that, in recent years, new provisions on rights of use in the general government have been introduced. also the 2009 circular of the Ministry. The majority share the view of the Council of State that these new provisions must now be effective in order to see how things are developing and, in this context, will wait to decide whether further changes in legislation or practice should be considered. The minority disagrees and proposes that the government promote a case for the Storting on the rights of the beneficiaries in the general public, with a view to strengthening private rights and removing the legal ambiguity in this area. The party of progress is of the opinion that the solution proposed by the government of Stoltenberg II through an interpretation of the dynamic concept of ‘time and urgency’ does not sufficiently meet the intentions of the mountain law, the rights of use in public opinion. The Party considers that rights of use in general government are not only linked to agricultural exploitation, such as seating and associated grazing rights, and possible small scale tourist exploitation as a result of the circular of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The Progress Party considers that, in the light of the law's dynamic approach to the rights of beneficiaries, one cannot deny that, among other things. small scale use of waterfalls for electricity generation to household needs for rightholders may be in line with the ‘time and time’. The Progress Party opens the way for the dynamic concept of ‘time and urgency’ related to the use of rights in the general government to be adapted to the current situation and the need of individual rights holders for the maintenance and exercise of today’s rights. These rights relate, inter alia, to: seat operations, grazing rights, stalling rights, fishing rights, road rights, small scale tourism exploitation and the possibility of building and extracting small scale electricity generation in water. The latter is the right of use to ensure the self-sufficiency of electricity related to the use needs of the rightholders. The Progress Party believes it is important for all residents of the country that the intentions of the Mountain Act should become a discussion theme for the Stortinget. We can then, through a thorough debate in Stortinget, focus on the problems and make a clarification of the laws of the mountains so that the right to use the general public in such a way as to ‘time and urgency’ becomes real again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e824	There is no doubt that issues relating to rights of use in the general public have considerable attention in parts of the agricultural environment and in areas where we have public opinion. And that will naturally be a somewhat different perception of what it is under law to give right to. Let me immediately say that I am satisfied with the explanation given by the Council of State in the letter that follows the matter, and I agree with the conclusion of the Council of State. The springing point here, is said to be in the concept of "time and contemplation", as formulated in the mountains of 6 June 1975, No. 31: ‘The law governing public use is built or fenced which has been so right from an old age. The right shall be available in a manner consistent with rational use at any time, which is natural after the time and exercise.’;» When the term "time and urgency" is used in the 1975 law, it is well for there to be a time and dynamic interpretation of what is a natural right to use after the interpretation of our time. It is not difficult to understand that this invites you to different assessments and discussions. The development of hydropower resources may fall within the concept of what should be covered by the ‘time and opportunity’, I think, can be discussed. However, I have noticed that the Council of State in its letter of 18 November 2010 is clear that the hydropower of the general government as a starting point is not a right of use, but belongs to the community, and that this perception is enshrined in the case law. In connection with the last review of the seat regulation and the preparation of a new circular, the Ministry concluded that, in some cases, it could be rational for a seat to be used for the production of electricity to the needs of the seat. State forests may also authorise such small scale exploitation, subject to the use of the power to operate the property as agricultural property. So here the ministry has given some careful openings lately, and it's going to be interesting to see what development this brings. In any case, I am interested to see how this is developing now, following the changes that took place in 2007 and 2009, and I agree with the Council of State that we should now see how this develops before considering any new changes in legislation or practice. I would therefore recommend the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e842	The background to the proposal by the representatives of the Right is that we believe that private property rights and a flexible, dynamic law on ownership also provide a significant change force for people who want to exploit old rights in a new and timely way. There are many examples both in the proposal and in the debate that show that there is not much dynamism in the new legislation, the new legislation. That's why we have a proposal that we're asking for exactly the same thing as the representative Arne L. The mound thinks it has to come. Haugen says you're willing to have a discussion about what kind of definition it is, and you're willing to have a discussion about what rights you're going to have, but you're just not willing to take it now. A too rigid law prevents people, in fact, who are going to take advantage of these rights, from using the innovative power and the change power they have to create new industries. That is what we are asking for to be debated, and that is what we are asking for. We're not going to bring anything revolutionary. We're not going to pave the seats, necessarily. We simply ask that we look at the law for a new time, which we do not believe has been done, even if good efforts were made in 2006 and 2007. In a very short time, we are asking for a law that gives us the opportunity to exploit the rights in a new era.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e853	Will the representative address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e856	Thank you! I would like to take up the minority proposal of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e861	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e864	There are important issues that will be addressed in the proposal under consideration today. Public opinion has long traditions. He's one of the oldest legal institutions we have here in the country. That legal tradition has developed as society evolves to this day. In many districts, general law is an important element of gardening through the extraction of wood, silage and grazing. Eating rights and steelmaking are important at a time when we want to place greater emphasis on the use of national resources such as roughage and pasture. Hunting, fishing and fishing are also an important part of the rights of the general public. These resources are of great value both as recreation and as a basis for tourism and other industrial development. Mountain government is doing an important job of caring for these resources and facilitating their use in a good way for the benefit of the interests and communities. Societal development and nutrient development lead to the updating of new ways of use. It shall apply, inter alia, to: tourism and the exploitation of hydropower. As a result, there is a need to re-evaluate and reinterpret laws and practices. In this work, it is important to balance the interests of the community with those of individual stakeholders. In the last few years, two working groups have looked at laws and regulations that may be linked to public law, and this has resulted in a number of regulatory changes. In his letter to the Business Committee, the Minister of Agriculture has briefed on the regulatory changes that have been made to adapt to social developments. Here, there is a strong concern that seats can be combined with small-scale travel lives, and we have also seen some adjustments when it comes to water power. We in SV believe that the adjustments that are now made should work, so that we can see how it develops before we consider whether there is a need for new adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e881	The right of use in the general public has long traditions that extend hundreds of years back in time, and is, together with the right of attorney, one of our oldest known legal institutions. Public opinion is a right of farm use, and it is limited to the needs of the farm. Public opinion authorises the use of certain resources in the general public, but is not a right one has forever. There is a dynamic right that is justified by a need for the property at all times. It may lapse and may be recovered according to whether the property complies with the public policy requirements. The established system, with plans, application procedures and consultation of various interests concerned, has created a clean system for the deportation of, inter alia, additional soil. The beneficiaries in the general public who have applied for additional land over the years have been granted this if necessary, the general public has had appropriate land resources for it and it has not created any disadvantages in relation to other rights of use or environmental considerations. I would also refer to the letter of 18 November 2010 sent by the Council of State to the Committee on this matter. With regard to the hydropower in the general government, the government has had as its starting point that this is not a right of use. Hydropower belongs to the community through its ownership of the landowner, Statskog. This legal opinion is enshrined in case law. In connection with the last review of the seat regulation and the preparation of a new circular, the Ministry has assumed that, in some cases, it could be rational for a seat to be used for the production of electricity to the needs of the seat. This is also apparent from the letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee. For watercourses such that they can be used to meet the needs of a useable property, State forest may also consider authorising a small-scale exploitation, but thus assuming that the power goes to the operation of the property as agricultural property. Any surplus of such facilities must be paid by the lessee. This remuneration is due to the Land Owners' Fund, which consists of the state's revenue from the general government and is distributed among others. to cover administrative costs, local business development and rights assurance. The government has done a great deal in recent regulatory changes to respond to the differing views — as the letter shows — for which there is coverage under existing legislation. The 2007 changes included: up to a new approach to the expulsion of seats, making it easier to bet on small scale tourism in the context of the operation of seats. The amendments in 2009 provide for a new practice in the use of hydropower and also provide the decision-making authority to the mountain governments in the case of the deportation of additional soils. The new provisions and the 2009 circular of the Ministry should now have an opportunity to work, so that we can see how things are developing before considering any further changes in legislation or practice. That's the center party's starting point in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e898	Public opinion has long traditions. The exercise of the rights of use and the management of the general public are currently governed by the Mountain Act, the Public Building Act and the Forestry Act in the general public. Public opinion is based on the fact that the rights of use lie in agricultural property within the rural communities that have exercised the rights of old age. The rights shall be exercised ‘in accordance with rational use’ and ‘naturally after the time and exercise’, as stated in the Mountain Law. Today, the law regulates the right to graze, the right to sit and the right to wood. The rights of general opinion may be exercised in accordance with the «household need principle», as expressed in Section 2 of the Mountain Act, as follows: ‘Justice relating to agricultural property may only be exploited as far as it relates to the operation of the property as agriculture and as long as the ownership of the property is run as agriculture.’ Corresponding wordings are also found in the Building Public Administration Act and the Forest Operation Act in the State Public Administration. The Building Law and the Mountain Law also regulate the rights of hunting and fishing. However, these rights are not in the same way related to the agricultural operation of the properties. Both the mountain and the general public law have rules on the allocation of additional land. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has assumed that deportation of additional land is not a right of use, but that this is something that is legitimate for use and, where appropriate, that others may seek to be deported under specific conditions. This applies both to the building and general government. In the law-enforcement process, this position has been expressed more clearly in relation to the law on the general public. For the general public, the issue of the deportation of additional land is regulated by the Mountain and Seat Regulations. The Regulation establishes a system for drawing up plans for larger coherent areas and individual testing of applications. It is the mountain government that decides on the deportation of additional land. The regulation was revised in 2007 and 2009. It is my opinion that the system established by law and regulation, with plans, application procedures and consultation of various interests concerned, has created a clean system for the deportation of additional soils. I also believe that there is coverage to say that the beneficiaries who have applied for additional land over the years have received this if it has been necessary, the general public has had appropriate soil resources for it, and it has not created disadvantages in relation to other rights of use, or environmental considerations. I have no idea that the issue of rights in itself has created any problem for the applicants. The proposers are of the opinion that the solution proposed by the government of Stoltenberg through the last amendments does not sufficiently meet the objectives of the mountain law, that use should be allowed in line with the ‘time and urgency’. It is shown, among others: that the majority of a working group considered that, in some cases, the use of hydropower in the general government ‘for home use’ should also be considered as exercising the right of use. I have as my starting point that the hydropower cannot be counted among the rights of use. Hydropower belongs to society through state ownership of the landowner, Statskog SF. The Ministry's opinion includes, among other things: the basis of case-law. In a 1963 judgment, the so-called "Vinstra" judgment, the Supreme Court has established that state-owned public opinion is owned by the State and that access to electricity from the waterfalls is not an exploitation that can be exercised as a public use. The judgment is based on subsequent laws and practices. However, in the context of the latest amendments to the seat regulation and the preparation of a new circular, the Ministry considered that it could be rational in some cases for a seat to be used for the production of electricity to its own needs. For watercourses such that it can be used to meet the needs of a useable property, State forest may also consider authorising a small-scale exploitation, but thus assuming that the power goes to the operation of the property as agricultural property. Any surplus of such facilities must be paid by the lessee. This remuneration is due to the Landowners' Fund, which consists of the state's revenue from the general government, which is distributed among others. to cover administrative costs, local business development and rights assurance. The Ministry's legal perception of additional land and the exploitation of hydropower has been debated, but as I see it, the Ministry has gone so far in meeting the different views that are covered by the legislation in force. I refer to the 2007 changes, which introduced a new approach to the deployment of seats, making it easier to bet on small-scale tourism in connection with the operation of seats. The amendments in 2009 provide for a new practice in the use of hydropower and also provide the decision-making authority to the mountain governments in the case of the deportation of additional soils. In my opinion, we should now – as more representatives have underlined today – allow the new regulations and the Ministry's 2009 circular to work for a time and see how things are developing before we assess further changes in legislation or practice. I take note that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee in the vote expresses the same opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e938	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e941	We want to put forward a new issue, where we debate this and look at all the issues. But the position and the Council of State say that the new regulations are going to work for a while. We have been contacted by people who have some problems, including: by the tourism industry, which has closed down its centres and which wants to build a road against them to make them a tourist destination. There are then some problems with mountain governments, which have a different way of assessing ‘time and time’: there is no right of use here. Based on the fact that three farms are laid down every day, 21 every week, the Council of State does not see the need to get a new case up, look at the problem again and open up so that farmers can also operate tourism, so that they can live off the farm and not have to lay down?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e950	As I underlined in my previous post, I believe that the changes made in 2007 and 2009 meet the needs of, among others. facilitates the development of tourism. It is important – and here I share the intention I hear from the case rapporteur – that you have the opportunity to work with tourism also in public opinion, as suggested. But I believe that we have now adapted the legislation so that it is possible to implement it in a good and practical way. But it's also the way that the "time and opportunity" change to use that term. One should not exclude that one can look at the same issues later, because the legal opinion also changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e957	I notice that the Council of State uses the phrase ‘limitation’. So you have extended the regulatory provisions as far as the limitation in the applicable laws allows. This means that the Council of State agrees that the law we have today may not be entirely ‘up to two date’ – in good English. Travel life has been opened up for reasons of public policy. If you are going to go from traditional agriculture to business combined with tourism, too many people will mean that you have to make quite a lot of investments. Does the Council of State consider that an unclear law and legislation are still sufficient to enable these actors to invest in a new investment in travel life?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e964	What is the situation is that one of these laws balances the interests of different actors on different issues. In the case of travel, for example, account should be taken of both environmental challenges and the law that regulates. And one should not least also take care of the owner's interest, which in the general public is State Forest, the State. The changes made in 2007 and 2009 are within the framework of the legislative and legislative frameworks and are adapted to the regulatory framework so that tourism-based industries can be developed even in public opinion, to a greater extent than in the past. Then it is not given to say where the limit goes all the time, because – as I mentioned in my previous reply to the representative, Mr. Treldal – there is a dynamic situation in which the legal opinion can be changed. I don't exclude change in the future, but now we should wait and see how this develops.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e975	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e980	It is with some wonder that I have listened to this debate and, in particular, I am wondering whether I have listened to the Council of State and to the representative of the Central Party. In a situation where large areas in our country are looking for new food, where sparsely populated areas are looking for new ways to populate the countryside, where the population is falling, and where we see that there is a need for innovation, there is a sense of self-satisfaction and a waiting attitude that I think is frightening. There is no appetite to look for new possibilities. There's no appetite to expand the room that's lying there to contribute to value creation. When discussing "time and urgency" as a key concept in this discussion, no one is looking at the possibility of actually increasing the space lying here. There is more concern about an intrusion of the action space, for example: when discussing this with hydropower. Then it is most graceful to have a seat for your own use – on a setra. Finally, we must not have, for example: a case on a farm, or expand it something. Here one should go much more offensively to work and not wait until once in a while – to see how this carries. It's not going to carry that far, because no one is going to start any particular hydropower activity, for example, within the framework that is. Here one should consider whether today there is a good balance between public opinion and public opinion. Had there been an opportunity to bring more power to the communities by transferring property to the community? One should look at the room in the 'time and opportunity' – what could one do with a new legislation, which would increase the space for use? One could also look at — perhaps in the light of the experience gained with additional soils, which the Council of State is also concerned with is not a right of use — how it is handled in relation to, for example, development of small-scale power plants, where several users, for example: could merge to expand on the hydropower side. It would be common and feeding, and is something quite different than setting up a water wheel to get light on the centra. I hope we'll see a little bit of a different appetite for giving room for value creation in Building Norway. If we don't get that, this is going to go pretty bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e991	Just a small comment for the last article. I think it is right that we share the intention that we should make better use of the opportunities offered by the general government and the general public, and it is also based on working with the regulatory body that has changed in 2007-2009. But it surprises me that the representative Olemic Thommessen so elegantly disregards the fact that there are unique Supreme Court decisions about who owns the hydropower and thus takes care of the interests of Statskog SF. Thus, the Ministry’s view is based on heavy case law, from 1963, the Vienna judgment, which states that the state’s general government is owned by the state, and that access to electricity from the waterfalls is not an exploitation that can be used by the general public. That is the basis on which I, as the Council of State, have to follow, and it is clear that within the framework of the legal process and the case law, we have taken advantage of those opportunities, and those opportunities provide a certain degree of exploitation – to hydropower, to the extension of additional land, which is also mentioned – but not as freely as individuals could have wished. What I'm trying to underline is that there is a balance between the desire for more dynamism, the desire for innovation in business in the outlands, and not least the interests of the towns themselves, the public ownership of the state generals that exist, and the case law that comes from the judges we've had in the past. We can't ignore it, and I feel that the Olemic Thommess elegantly ignores it in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e998	Of course, we should not ignore the decision of the Supreme Court – and I understand that this government is concerned about, as you have burned yourself. But now it's in this room that you make laws, and the government could have a slightly more offensive attitude and look at the legislation in force, and look at what opportunities it is to give a better room for what is the time-consuming use of land. There is no doubt that within travel life, for example, there is a potential that can be exploited. What is not the subject of this debate, but which I would like to mention, is the issue of protection, because the protection issue covers very large areas of the areas we are now discussing. Protection is protection – it's okay, it's a separate set of things. But one should also be aware that here there are peripheral zones and quite strong considerations that are moving towards restricted use, and I think that is actually a frontier area that is also problematicating this which we are now discussing. The anchoring of values in a rural community must be an important and overriding task. Putting values into use in the rural communities and allowing the values that actually lie there to be used and to find opportunities for growth must be a policy objective. I do not feel that the government is following up in an appropriate way and in such an offensive way that there should be room for it. The Supreme Court, that is, the courts, will of course always judge in relation to the law that applies at all times. It's actually going to be something to do with. Through new legislation, new processing of this field, I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to create a greater room for exploitation, it is that appetite for value creation, it is the desire for growth in Building Norway, which I miss, and which I might have hoped for a slightly more offensive attitude – it is from the Council of State or from colleagues here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1009	These are the last posts that have inspired me to take the word. Firstly, I think that the majority of the committee has a relatively reasonable balance with the subject. To consider the changes that have been made in the regulations now, in the future and to have an open mind for it, I think it's absolutely right. Otherwise, there is a rather extensive intervention in all-man rights and in relation to the rights of use right here, through the debate on the use of hydropower on a larger scale than what the Minister of Agriculture has explained. I think at least there's a reason to think carefully before giving one or the other answer to this. I certainly think that the majority of the committee has a sensible approach to the issue – not rejecting the use of the general public more in line with the rights of use that lie there, and one is not – let's say – out of appetite on behalf of District Norway. I rather think the Right should think a little through how they put their words on behalf of District Norway with the very entrance they have to the matter. There are two themes that have been addressed here, which are not rejected, but which are quite comprehensive in the issue, and which go far beyond what is currently being treated, namely both tourism and hydropower. The majority is not reprehensible, the majority will assess and see how the changes made in recent years are evolving in relation to the rights of use, and will, of course, follow it further. In relation to the relation to hydropower, it is of a more principleal nature and that the Supreme Court has taken a decision on. At least from the Workers' Party we are not willing to open up to it through a random recording in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1018	Just briefly to the chairman of the committee, who I understand seems to have a reasonable input into this. I had also expected that, since he was behind the comments I have written, and also behind the setting. But I think, in relation to the discussion that has taken place, that in many ways we are seeking refuge in this with the development of hydropower and the principle around it in order to avoid taking up the discussion of what opportunities lie in the areas of the Norwegian districts. Then it is quite right that the representative Thommess pointed out – whether it is a Supreme Court judge, or what it may be of case law – that there is no doubt that we are the legislators. If you really want to do something about this, make suggestions from the government, and we're definitely going to accede to them, to the highest degree. So once again to the committee leader, who I now almost perceive is trying to decorate a little bit of what's really in the mood. When I read the setting, I read that you do not agree with this. If you thought there was a little bit more to it, there are other ways to promote it, like that. that it could have been annexed to the Protocol. But I understand that the argument from the opposition has made an impression. At least I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1030	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3693]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1046	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1055	As rapporteur of the case, I am not surprised at how the Committee shares such matters, both in this case and in the next case we are going to deal with – with the governmental parties and the Christian People's Party on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. In a letter from the Minister for Agriculture and Food dated 16 November 2010, the Minister wrote that the social objectives set for price control are still important, in his view, today. For the Christian People's Party, this case is about making a choice. I was more concerned with those who are going into agriculture than with those who are going out of agriculture. Farm price regulation is a means of sustaining housing, life, well-being and activity throughout the country. I would assume that there is in principle opposition to regulation and intervention in the right to the free purchase and sale of property which is the overall starting point for this proposal from the Progress Party. Farmers who want to get rid of the farm and sell their farm property would probably also want these regulations to be abolished. This price regulation of agricultural property contributes to ensuring the recruitment of active economic operators. The price level reflects the value of the property's operating base and the value of the property's residence, while not requiring an unreasonable amount of equity. It is that if we are to bring new forces into the agricultural industry, we must ensure a policy that allows us to enter the industry. With a free pricing, the housing value will be much more decisive for the price of the property, and this will result in the price of agricultural property being repressed. Very many agricultural properties will have an alternative value in the market that is far beyond the yield on agricultural production. This proposal will make a farm so expensive that a farmer cannot afford to buy it. The proposal will at least make it impossible for young engaged people who want to enter the industry to buy these farms, because it will simply be impossible to obtain enough housing loans on the basis of the low incomes of the farmers. The proposal will thus exclude young, engaged future farmers from the agricultural market. Those who are then left as buyers are those who have capital to assess the property on the basis of their housing value – rich investors who want a holiday home in the country. Finally, the Christian People's Party is occupied by those who want to enter agriculture, and this price control is precisely justified on their account. Finally, I would like to recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1074	I am of them – and it is probably no surprise – who will not suspend price control of concessional agricultural properties. It's probably in a few cases that the dividing lines between the right parties and the other parts of the Stortinget are clearer. In my opinion, the main focus must be on young people who want to enter the industry. They have to get into the industry for a sum that the operation can pay off. It's absolutely fundamental. Then I can join some of the Progress Party and Right situational description that too many uses are empty. It's a big problem. The answer to this is that they are to be converted into recreational dwellings, in my view, the solution may be in some cases, but the abolition of price controls on compulsory agricultural property is not the answer to the challenges contained in this problem description. Now that we are working on a new major communication on agricultural and food policy, we need to facilitate offensive thinking and attitudes towards Norwegian agriculture and the possibilities of agriculture. If we are to maintain our self-sufficiency as a growing population, soil cannot lie fallow. On the contrary, we need to use all these resources to grow food and maintain our cultural landscape. That cultural landscape is the characteristics of our country, and we can't let that fall. Therefore, price policy must be such that it is easier than worse for young people to acquire agricultural property. So I think that even in this context, land change can be used to some extent to bring about a more appropriate land situation. Otherwise, I have noticed the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, where he explains that less populated properties are not subject to price control, i.e. they follow the living limits currently set at 25 deches of full-grown or surface-grown land, or it must be greater than 500 deches of productive forest. In addition, it is considered that price controls cannot be avoided if the purchase price does not exceed 1,5 million. kr. I refer to the majority's excellent remarks, which are quite comprehensive to my vision, and I agree with the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1087	Today it stands about. 35,000 agricultural properties unoccupied. These are buildings that people could benefit from living in and enriching the community. These are often located in rural areas where housing patterns and numbers are declining, and population ages are relatively high. For every day, there will be more and more empty buildings, while some of them will be in poorer condition because no one will inhabit them or maintain them. People don't use them, so the quality generally decreases. It's called people need houses, and houses need people. That's true. At the same time, we know that hundreds of thousands of people could imagine moving into the country and experiencing the quality of life that exists there, a different quality of life than they have today. So what's the problem? Well, the problem is that among very many Norwegian specific rules, especially in agriculture where most is regulated and determined, we have rules on price fixing for agricultural properties sold for more than 1.5 million. kr. This means that the price is to be assessed and approved by the authorities. This means that even if the purchaser and the seller have agreed on a sum, the authorities will decide whether this is the correct price. Where in society can such provisions be found? There are very many houses, cabins, apartments, commercial properties, boats, cars, etc. every day, where the seller and the purchaser have agreed on a price of more than 1.5 million kroner. kr without the authorities caring. So what's the difference? Yes, according to the authorities, there is consideration for the housing and recruitment of self-employed persons for agriculture. Yeah, this sounds great. This is also the answer for the Progress Party when we ask the responsible State Council this question in debates and in the Questionnaire here: the need for recruitment and residence. But what's happening out in the real world, where the peasants labor every day to get a decent income out of their work? Yes, fewer and fewer continue to be farmers. Of the approx. 45000 farmers receiving production supplements today are only about 45,000. 12 pst. which has 90 pst. of its total farm income. This isn't many. We know that the number of farms in active operation is reduced by approx. three to four every day. We also know that the number of decas we produce food on today is a lot smaller than for example. 10 years ago. We know that 35,000 farms stand there with empty buildings – most of them ready for sale if the price purchased and the seller agrees to be accepted. But often it doesn't become that when the farm's return is to determine the price, even if the person who is to pay is well satisfied. Maybe he or she has other plans for returns, or that by moving there they are willing to pay just to get the quality of life they are looking for separately and theirs. This will not be allowed by the authorities, and therefore the Progress Party will want these Norwegian special regulations to be amended and repealed. The party wants a free market in which the seller and purchaser determine the price. Then we'll get some light in the windows again, maybe not all of the year in everyone, but in a large majority we'll get it. Then maybe the primary school can be saved, and the store can keep going open. Then the club and the sports team get new members. There will be jobs for the craftsmen, and, not least, it will stop the downward negative trend. The spark of life will come back to the residents. You can see that you get back something for the pursuit, and the desire and interest in caring for and investing in the farm and farm buildings is there because you know that the day you sell, for one or more reasons, you will get back for your investments. That today's system is a misguided policy, probably the government has understood. So they've also taken a few small steps in the right direction by increasing the area and the price. But it's not enough, and it's too late. That is why I am promoting the proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right to repeal provisions on the pricing of concessional properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1102	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1105	Let me first say to the representative, Haugen, who does not understand the situation description from the Right and the Advance Party, and who believes that a suspension will enable the farms that may be empty to become recreational settlements, that now it is noticeable that it is the land on which you grow – even I who are not a farmer – not inside the houses. There might be a little bit of a different way to view this. When Arne Haugen says that there is no solution to cancel the price regulation – that that is not the answer – I hear nothing in his comments about what is the answer, other than that he is talking about us having to use all the resources. Yes, that's really what this is about, because this case is important, because the circumstances around housing in the districts, the practice of the agricultural profession, not least the recruitment and understanding of being able to get profitability, which is a big problem, also have to be colored by the time we live in. I believe that it does not do today's rules. There are still examples, at least on my table, and I know that they are also on the Council of State's table, because the copies often come to me, on how the practice of the legislation can get the most remarkable results for both sellers and purchasers of agricultural property. When the Council of State writes in its reply to the Committee that a so-called ‘socially sound price’ contributes to the achievement of the objectives of agricultural policy, I shall not say that he is speaking against better knowledge, for I do not think so, but at least against the facts. It pointed out absolutely the Riksrevision review. They pointed out that there was no agreement between many of the targets drawn up and the instruments used. Now this thing is just a small part of it all, but anyway. When the Council of State further writes in its letter that the price level must not be higher than that of a person with normal good use can achieve satisfactory economic performance, it may be easy to agree. But there is no normal exploitation of any agricultural property. Every property has its own possibilities. Each driver and owner has his or her ownopportunities, depending on his or her background, past experience, innovation capacity and progress. Average considerations are not suitable in any industry as a fixed measure of the possibilities, and I allow myself to say in the agricultural industry as well. Therefore, the free movement of agricultural property will make it more attractive to maintain the buildings, to find new, profitable modes of operation, and thus to maintain the cultural landscape and to ensure its settlement, and perhaps to help new owners with a new view of both operation and settlement. If for a period, perhaps even a long period, they had a different view of profitability and return on capital in the form of a very long-term investment horizon, I don't think it would do any of the world's things. There's a point here that objectives and instruments have proved not to be related. Then you have to look at the instruments. It's not the government council and the red-green willing to do. It is clear from the letter to the Committee that the objectives set for price control are also important today. However, the question raised, which the Council of State does not answer – and not the red-green ones in the vote – is whether yesterday's instruments are the right ones to meet today's and tomorrow's objectives. It is easy to adhere to the objectives, but we need to think about whether we are getting tools or tools that can help those with a keen interest in investment and creativity to achieve these agricultural policy objectives. We heard in the previous debate that there was talk of creativity, value creation in the districts, and I think that as we move through this day with the things that are up, we will encounter the same thing all the time – what I see as a compact defence from the government parties for the existing and with too little desire, I think, about changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1118	It is positive that the opposition addresses agricultural policy issues and engages in this important industry. We live in a world where many people are starving, and where there is a need for increased food production. The climate crisis we're facing can exacerbate this situation. Therefore, it is important that Norway takes its share of the responsibility for producing food, and that we use all available resources as much as possible. Agriculture is also an important basis for the maintenance of living areas throughout the country, thereby laying the basis for other activities. It provides the basis for busses and for varied industrial structures. It is therefore important to pursue an agricultural policy that can maintain the diversity and breadth of Norwegian agriculture. And that's why it's positive that the opposition is committed to agricultural policy issues. But the vast majority of agricultural policy proposals that come from the Progress Party and the Right are about one thing – they have different shades and different angles, but they have the same focus, that is, deregulation of agriculture. They are an element of a policy to break down the balance between the market and regulation that we have in Norwegian agriculture, and which has taken stock of Norwegian agricultural policy, although there are many challenges we face. This is a balance that is absolutely necessary to take care of agriculture in our long-range and diverse countries. Norway is a diverse country with wide variations in topography and climate. The steepness of use in many parts of the country can be difficult to compete on equal lines with the flatlands. This is why we need a blending model where policy measures help to achieve the goals that the market is unable to achieve. Price regulation on agricultural property is such a measure — what economists call failure in the market system. I find it difficult to see how the removal of price regulation can be of benefit to them in overcoming the objectives of agricultural policy. It is beneficial for those who want to leave the industry, but it will increase the cost of those who want to make a living in the industry. The regulatory allergy from which the right-hand party is infected removes the basis for an active and differentiated agricultural policy. He wants to rage agriculture in much of the country, not least in the state I come from. He will also weaken the work of maintaining living communities in the districts. I look forward to a fresh debate on this when we get the advertised agricultural message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1139	Price controls for the acquisition of agricultural property shall take account of the need to reserve agricultural property for active professionals, to ensure recruitment to the industry and to give economic and social conditions to professionals. It is therefore important that the price level of agricultural property should not be higher than that of a person with normal good use of the property’s operating base can achieve a satisfactory economic result. The price control of the acquisition of agricultural property is governed by Section 9 of the Concession Act. In deciding on applications for a concession for the acquisition of property to be used for agricultural purposes, it shall, inter alia: emphasis is placed on whether the agreed price accommodates socially sound price developments. A socially sound price means a price that contributes to the achievement of the objectives of agricultural policy. The proposal of the Contracting Party is the winding-up of price controls and the market for the sale of property. The centre party will in no way support the proposals of the Progress Party to facilitate more leisure properties in municipalities that want permanent residence. The proposal of the Progress Party emphasises this precisely through the arguments they have used in the case. The centre party considers that strengthening the level of self-sufficiency is important and that strengthening the income of the food producer is essential in order to be able to operate agriculture in Norway and to maintain the activity and residence throughout the country. I would also like to provide a case-by-case information: the ‘Light in all glass’ project, or ‘Light in all windows’ mentioned by the Progress Party, which is called ‘Light in all glass’, is intended to ensure solid housing and nutritional development. It seems obvious, then, that the Progress Party in the same breath mentions that there are 160,000 people who have blacked out that they want a small use as leisure property. It has nothing to do with the objective of this project. It may be tempting to challenge the Progress Party whether they can't be honest for once and admit that what they really want is that District Norway should be a pure leisure arena and not a versatile and leisure arena with permanent residence as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1154	The basic position of the left in agricultural policy is that there must be greater diversity and less regulation. Local authorities must be given greater freedom to see agricultural policy in the context of other industrial policies. The Left therefore wants a full review of the entire complex agricultural legislation with a view to major modernisation, fewer forms and simpler guidelines. This also applies to issues of price control and housing obligations on agricultural properties. Common to both of these codes is, as the Left sees it, that they don't work according to their purpose. In order to address the issue of price control: the justification for current legislation is a desire to reserve agricultural property for active operators, to ensure recruitment to industry and to ‘regulate’ the economy in industry. Therefore, the price level of agricultural property must not exceed the level at which a satisfactory economic result can be achieved with normal exploitation of the property's operating base. We've heard that from more of the government parties say here today. This sounds very lenient. The problem is that the operating base of an agricultural property with 30 decars of cultivated land is minimal, while the housing value of a similar property can be very large. To set a limit of 1.5 million price control. Therefore, in view of what you get out of housing in more central areas, only unnecessary regulation and unnecessary bureaucracy will become necessary. The left, therefore, shares the intentions of the proposers far on the road that this is a legislation that – as it appears today – is only unnecessary intervention and detailed control of the turnover of properties that have once had their main activity in agriculture but no longer has it. However, the left considers that in some very special cases there may be a basis for a certain price control. However, the left considers that the limits on when this price control is to be carried out should be substantially increased. No price control and concession provision should be made for the placing on the market of normal small uses. They should be as freely negotiable as any other dwelling. The left is therefore promoting proposals in the Chamber today to amend the concession law so as to raise the ceiling of 50 decare at the time of the concession obligation and increase the price limit to 3 million. kr. Dwelling duty is a topic in the next case, but I finally dare to say a little short about it here. The left will soften the state housing legislation for agricultural properties. The left will have a more active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are mainly a place to live. Above all, there should be a desire and commitment to farm practices that are driving a desire to take over an agricultural property, not a dwelling and inheritance. By birth, the odel law gives priority to almost 80 pst. of agricultural properties in Norway. The left believes it has to be easier to buy agricultural properties. The left also believes that today’s prohibition of splitting up a property that is used or can be used for agriculture or forestry is a low-precision instrument to ensure sound operation and social use of land resources. A lifting of the ban on sharing will facilitate good solutions in the development of ownership and use of land that will be consistent with a future-oriented agricultural policy. Finally, the Left wants active agriculture throughout the country. We also want to maintain support for agriculture above the state budget at about the current level. If we are to succeed in this, it is absolutely necessary that we adapt agriculture to the new era and give greater opportunities and scope for action to those who will be wholeheartedly committed to a future within the industry. It is a forward-looking, responsible and liberal policy, as the Left sees it. I take up the Left's proposal, which is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1173	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1177	The proposal terminates the price control of the acquisition of agricultural property. I agree with the majority of the Committee that this proposal should be rejected. The price control of the acquisition of agricultural property is governed by Section 9 of the Concession Act. In deciding on applications for a concession for the acquisition of property to be used for agricultural purposes, it shall, inter alia: emphasis is placed on whether the agreed price accommodates socially sound price developments. A socially sound price means a price that contributes to the achievement of the objectives of agricultural policy. These are objectives such as reserving agricultural property to active professionals, ensuring recruitment to industry and providing economic and social conditions to professionals. The price level of agricultural property must not exceed that of a person with normal good use of the property's operating base to achieve a satisfactory economic result. In my opinion, this is an important objective. The proposers claim that price controls must be lifted because control prevents agricultural property from being sold. In this respect, it is suggested that the price increase for agricultural property has not been as high as the price increase for dwellings, so that sellers are not able to buy an alternative dwelling. I recommend a somewhat more knowledge-based approach to the matter than the ideological approach that many promote here in this Chamber. The statistical central agency has published on its web pages a separate figure showing the price evolution of dwellings, agricultural properties and recreational dwellings for the period 2000–09. Anyone who is concerned about looking at the figure will find that the price evolution of dwellings and agricultural property is fairly consistent over the period in question. However, prices of recreational dwellings vary widely. Nor is there statistical evidence to claim that the turnover of agricultural property is inhibited due to the existence of legal instruments, including price controls or changes in the instruments. Turnover figures from the Central Statistical Office relating to properties registered in the agricultural register show no significant difference in the development of the turnover of properties of a size subject to concession or of such size. The debate on price control must be anchored in this and in the fact that the price increase in agricultural property in recent years has been high. In my opinion, the price control should not be designated as the main reason why the supply of agricultural property on sale out of the family is not larger than it is. A doctoral dissertation of Frode Flemsetter from the Norwegian urban research centre shows that in many cases connection and relative feeling are of much greater importance for whether the owner wants to sell a property than the legislation. I believe that is in line with the experience of many of us. Although I want a wider supply of agricultural property in the market and will stimulate it, there are absolutely clear limits to the means that can be used to achieve this. We can't force the owners to sell their own private property. As a follow-up to the signals from Stortinget in connection with the examination of the legislative proposals for changes in property law in 2009, I sent out a circular in spring 2010 with adjustments in price control. The price control for built-up property was linked to the new land limits for cultivated land and housing obligations. In addition, the lower financial limit for the built-up properties to be subject to the control doubled to 1.5 million. NOK, and it was added that the municipalities could apply a housing charge of up to 1.5 million. kr. Last year, therefore, changes were made to the price control aimed at stimulating a wider range of properties. I want to get back to more actual information related to price control in connection with the big message on agricultural policy announced in the Soria Moria Declaration. For my part, I am not in doubt that a high property price imposes higher performance requirements on purchasers of agricultural property. This burden is highest in the first few years after acquisition. An increase in price may particularly be to the detriment of the youngest buyers who must be expected to have less equity on a regular basis than the older ones. On the other hand, the price increase has less to say for part-time users, especially in areas with good access to jobs in key areas. In the case of higher property prices, the capital requirements of the active agricultural holdings will also increase, and a higher capital will have to have a return. It will thus affect performance targets for agricultural profitability, which contain remuneration for capital. The aim of price control is to take account of the person entering the agricultural industry, not the person leaving the industry, as many representatives in this Chamber have stressed earlier in the debate. In view of the fact that price developments in recent years have shifted towards much higher prices, there is reason to believe that by abolishing price controls, the situation may deteriorate, especially for younger traders without significant equity. Therefore, although I understand that the desire to invest may be impaired for the person who is going to leave the industry, I believe that the price control should be maintained after an overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1205	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1208	In a letter to the Committee of 16 November last year, the Council of State wrote in particular: the following: ‘The price level of agricultural property must not exceed the level at which a person with normal good use of the property’s operating base can obtain a satisfactory economic result.’ Then my question is, what's the difference between someone or someone who buys a farm property in the district for $3 million? NOK, versus another type of commercial property purchased for SEK 3 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Both of them may be equally important, and why should one be guaranteed an economically good return versus the one who buys another type of industry? My question is also: what is a satisfactory financial result for one who buys, for example. One farm for three million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1218	Price regulation of agricultural properties is available to address societal concerns, including: what was mentioned in my post and in the posts of several representatives, to ensure recruitment to the industry, to enable younger practitioners to enter the industry without bleeding too much. It is also important to stress the fact that when you are in possession of the ownership of a concessional agricultural property, you also have a right to receive grants from the government – grants that are there, of course, to ensure that the activity on the farm is carried out and that you have the opportunity to live from it. It's a little bit of the balance we're talking about here, and it's not the representatives of the Progress Party or other representatives who do their posts. They do not see that the rights conferred by transfers and access to grants must also be taken into account in setting socially sound prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1223	I very much agree with the Council when he writes that he has made some changes as a result of the legislative work in 2009 in relation to the price control. It now follows the limits of the dwelling obligation, and he has cancelled the purchase price. In his statement, the Council of State also spoke of his wish to have a ‘more knowledge-based approach’ to the issue from the opposition, I think it would be. What is interesting to know is: What knowledge-based input does the Council of State have on this matter when he proposes decorations and changes, and in fact – if I interpret him correctly – also say that he will consider this further in relation to the agricultural notification? What background does he have to make these changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1230	One of the reasons why I used the term ‘knowledge-based approach’ is that it is claimed that there are very different price developments in residential property in general and agricultural property. It shows the figures of the Central Statistical Office that this is not the case. Over the past eight to ten years, there has been much the same trend for residential and agricultural property. It varies slightly more for cottage and leisure properties. The starting point for my thinking around this is that there are actually other conditions that affect the situation to a large extent than just the price. It's related, and it's related to the property. It shows research from the Norwegian Centre for Urban Research, at Frode Flemsetter, which I have also mentioned. That's what's my starting point. Then, of course, we have to look at how we can find solutions to ensure increased turnover. I do not reject the fact that the price has a certain meaning, but it is not only the main importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1235	I want to complete what the Council of State said about ‘knowledge-based input’, which we clearly do not have in the opposition. With today's policy, it's just about 13 pst. who has all his income as a farmer. You have, as the Council of State has previously said from this pulpit, a good deal of hobbies that we are happy to have. We're happy that they're involved in building up the earth, that they deliver food, milk, and what we need. Then is my question about the knowledge-based input to the Council of State: Is it easy to say that there is no knowledge-based input, rather to have 36 000 empty uses standing and rotting down, instead of allowing hobby farmers, if any, to produce more food, to make the districts live on tourism, food and other? What is the difference between the knowledge-based approach to the Council of State and the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1242	I would like to repeat what I said in my previous post, that it is the development of the price of residential property, agricultural property and leisure property that is the starting point for the concept of ‘knowledge-based entrance’. I would like to stress that it is also such that there are indisputable conditions other than the price that affect the wish for the 36 000 properties to stand there empty, sold or put into use. There are actually a lot of owners who don't want to sell their property. They want to sit on it. They may have moved away from it, live in a city and have other priorities, but they want to be related, among other things. family relationships, not selling. The question can be put back to the representative of the Progress Party: When they want to increase the supply of properties, is it that the Progress Party wants to force people to sell their properties? How, then, is private ownership guaranteed, by which the Progress Party is a strong defender?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1247	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1252	I take the word to try to correct a misunderstanding in the line exchange I had with the Council of State. What I meant by using the term ‘knowledge-based entrance’ was giving him credit for making changes. That's good. We also want changes, but we want more changes. That's why I asked him what was his motivation -- I called the knowledge-based input -- to make these changes. What I was looking for was to hear if they might be the same as Right and I have. If they are – and I think that they are – I think it's a result of the fact that the Council of State also sees that time is changing and the circumstances are changing, and there needs to be more flexibility and softness in these systems. I hope that's what he's seen, because then we're pretty much on the same track and we can stick our heads out of the trenches. Then I would like to pay a visit to the representative of Holmelid. He says that with this proposal, the Progress Party and the Right will completely regulate agriculture. Agriculture in Norway is always going to be a regulated activity, there is no doubt about it. But we see that the results are not good enough. We've seen the Riksaudition Review, we've seen – I'm not going to call it – the Ministry's confession, and everyone agrees that this should get better. We know that the objectives are not achieved, that the instruments have to be set up in another way, and then it must be allowed to address different aspects of this. For this, the regulation of prices does not solve all problems. Nobody has said that this is going to happen. I don't think it's such that we need as much regulation as possible, as I think I hear Holmelid talking about. Nor is it the case that the Right and Advance Party want Norwegian agriculture to be a leisure arena, i.e. that Norwegian districts should be a leisure arena, as the representative Lange Nordahl talks about. In fact, I ask to be believed when I say that I have alternative models, alternative ideas, for how agriculture can be organized. Maybe it's not the biggest changes, but we're discussing several changes today, and the results really speak for themselves. It should be welcome that someone will discuss alternative models.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1261	In the change of lines, I got a question back from the Council of State Breck. It depended on whether we wanted to coerce property. No, the Progress Party will never coerce property. We'll leave it up to the owner of the property, whether he wants to sell or not sell. It is the owner, the landowner, who does it – neither state, Kemner nor others will tell the common man in Norway whether to sell property or not. But I also noticed that the Council of State said that today no one can be forced to sell. So then my question to the Council of State is, is that maybe what we see in the agricultural message now, that you have to add up to force to sell? So I'll put the question back on again about what you asked me about. As I mentioned instead, it's about 13 pst. who live by farming today and only have it as food. We have 36 000 empty uses standing. Then the representative from the Center Party is very concerned that we were going to make fun of it. We do not intend to make any use of leisure. But if anyone wants to sell their use, they have to be allowed to do it. Then perhaps those who have been mentioned by the Council of State Breck from the pulpit come several times – the beautiful, good part-time farmers and hobbyists in Norway who keep food production and milk production going. Of course, they're going to do that with our policy, where you're allowed to sell at the price you get. That way you make it happen. I'd like to take an example of someone who would sell their use. You had to create an animal hospital – this is quoted in the media. You wanted to make an animal hospital for all the animals nearby. Then you agreed on a price, you set the price, everyone is satisfied, you put the money into the account – and then he comes to the State. The state comes and says that we don't accept this, you won't get that price. What happens then? The following happens: the person who had intended to stop and move into Bergen and be there on his older days with the family who had moved there, could not realize the purchase of an apartment in Bergen. Because when the government says he only gets 1.5 million. For something worth much more, he cannot afford an apartment in Bergen. He probably had to rent himself a container at the port, one should have followed the policy of the red-green government. This shows what makes you have to lay down. So what do you do? Instead of new activities and new measures being introduced, there is a reduction and fallowing fallow. Then we're up in 36,001 farms!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1276	According to the State Council, there are some knowledge-based approaches — and others do not. I wonder if «others not» are the Progress Party, but at least I do not agree with it at all. The solutions to Norway's agricultural policy I think quite a few of us have, and the solutions may be different, but I think the Progress Party has as good solutions as the government parties. For what has happened in previous periods, the previous period and in this period, until now, is that we have fewer farmers, fewer farms and fewer deches of productive land. The only thing that has increased is empty farming around – approx. 35,000 farms are now empty. Then the policy that has been pursued has not been quite good. I asked the Council of State what would be expected of an investment income of, for example, A 3-million farm. kr may be. It is stated in the letter of reply from the Council of State that a sound financial return on investment should be made. Then I asked again: what could an annual income for a person who buys a farm of $3 million? kr, be? Otherwise, it's a fact that the number of the population is falling in many places. That's especially where we have the big farms. The Progress Party is being criticized from the opposition to our policies, but we don't hear anything about solutions, about what we're going to do to get people to sell these 35,000 empty farm buildings. You talk about relationships, etc., and there are a lot of people who don't want to sell. That's right. But it's a fact that there's a lot of people who can imagine selling. But because of the price fixing in the agricultural policy we have today, they do not get what they want for the farm – because what they think their generation and previous generations have built up. It is clear that no one will give away his work of life, what has been there for many years. Then we must encourage sales to those who want to sell. Of course, the progress party will not use coercion, as someone has said. But at least it has to be an incentive to sell. What I'm missing is that the position and the council provide solutions to get this going.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1285	First of all, I must say that I do not doubt the good vision and thoughts of either the government or the Minister of Agriculture and Food about what you want to achieve and what is at the root of the pricing. But sometimes it is that we should stop and see if the legislation that exists works after the intention. As far as this matter is concerned, I think you should stop and make some accounts, start looking at the idea behind this, and the effect of that, and see what happens out there in District Norway. Is it so that this keeps the price down and the activity goes up? Or is it that this law actually works against its purpose, and that in many ways it is involved in depopulating and preventing the marketing and operation of agriculture? Is that what's going on? When you look at the numbers, the number of farms taken out of operation, it clearly shows that this rule does not work as intended. At that time, I expected the Council of State to say something about what steps the Council of State would take to counteract this trend we see. There are more and more darkened farms. We're able to produce the same amount of food in this country, but you're actually preventing you from handing over property from one side to another, because it's the state that goes in and tells you what a property is going to cost. The state does not say that it costs too little, but the state disagrees with the buyer and the seller when they are willing to make a trade between themselves. The state or the public says: No, this is too expensive – this cannot be allowed to be traded on. This is out of date. Sooner or later, it also has to go up for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1296	I think this debate has evolved as expected, but also strange. On my way I have not met a single farmer who wants more progress party policy. The farmers know that the policy of the Progress Party will mean the closure of agriculture in large parts of the country. There's no doubt about it. It is a set of instruments that the Progress Party wants to implement. The reason why I finally took the floor is that the posts clearly show that it is the leisure arena that they prioritise. The centre party is committed to the creation of a living farm throughout the country and to the possibility of living and operating for the younger generations as well. I think it is obvious that the Progress Party is calling for a bet on leisure homes. I refer to what is stated in the Committee's comments, which have been written about the project on light in all windows. At the same time, they refer to the 160 000 who have expressed a desire to buy a small use to use it for leisure homes. The ‘Light in all glass’ project, as it is called, intends to create nutrient development and housing in the districts. That is the opposite of what the Progress Party stands for. It is then obvious that the project is being used as an argument for the policy of the Progress Party. I look forward to having more debates today. We're going to have more debates on the agricultural notification when it comes. But what is important then is that we are clear about what we want about agriculture and what kind of policies we want. The centre batch wants increased food production and increased self-sufficiency. Then we also have to put in a set of tools to achieve that. We have to take the great sky over us, and see that we are actually in a world where 1 billion people are starving. We get growing population in our own country. This requires that we also take over and ensure Norwegian food production, increased development and renewal in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1309	I couldn't wait, I had to answer a little bit to the representative from the Center Party, who's trying to present it so that we just have to have leisure properties. That's absolutely not true. We want exactly the opposite, we want to get the towns to deliver, we want the towns to be there. But with the politics of the Center Party we build down, down, down, and there's soon not a light left in a feather. And now the outdoor lights are almost also off, with the Center Party. They say that there are no farmers who want progress party politics. Yeah, then I think maybe you should move a little bit outside the central party's own party offices. There are actually a lot of farmers who are members of the Progress Party – there are a lot of them who are members of us. And that's who we listen to -- that's who we in our fraction and our party listen to. They come to us and present the everyday problems, the problems they face in everyday life, the problems they face all the way, against a bureaucracy, against all public domination and a public assault on some who want to sell their own property, but are stopped by the state. The progress party takes the total distance from the state almost as a dictatorship state going in and telling what each individual can negotiate with price. We have respect for the individual, we have respect for each individual to do it. You can give birth to children, you can raise children, you can do what you have to do, but you can't get the socialist majority to decide when to sell your own home. It has nothing to do with democracy, it has something to do with – I shouldn't say the word, but I wanted to say it. So there's the big and the whole difference between our policy and socialist policy: we're there for people most, but the Central Party and the Government are there for people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1316	I think it would be a good idea to dampen the value of the use of words in this debate. I don't think it's right to use the term 'dictation' about the politics of another political party or the politics of an opponent. What I think is important is that there are two different approaches to this discussion about how we get activity in agriculture, a production that we all want – I think everyone wants it. One is the belief in deregulation, leaving the market raw, as we have seen in many other countries, which is not the situation in Norway, and then there is this mixed economy/plan economy, which we have trends in Norway. So it's very much an ideological debate that's the starting point for this case. I just have to say it so that for my own part I see ideological discussions in this, but also practical, actual discussions like this. goes around what is the reason why properties are not sold. I have tried to mention a few reasons – there are family relationships and relationships that make not all properties sold, as many of us might wish would happen, and there may be other reasons. However, what is at least quite obvious is that in the case of a complete free drop in Norwegian agriculture, which is, for example, the case. There is no place where you have experience that there is an effect that ensures activity around the districts, around the countryside. What we know is that a complete release will create a significant centralisation in Norwegian agriculture, as it does in other businesses. It does not want government parties, government parties want more diversity. Then we can ask ourselves if we have achieved the great diversity. Yes, it is a paradox that the Progress Party is attacking the government for the fact that many farms are being abandoned, when they themselves, through their policies, will be responsible for a declaration of the same developments if, for example, they are being abandoned. Removes 6-7 billion. kr of the transfers to the industry. It is a paradox, I think, that the representatives of the Progress Party should recognise. They should recognise that they use an argument against the government parties based on the number of uses that go down, but their own policy will be the one giving up these developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1325	I appreciate that the Progress Party is using strong words to describe agricultural policy, because they are fully aware that their agricultural policy will lead to a depopulation of the rural areas around which I come from, and they will try to conceal the great intervention they want to make in their agricultural policy, with drastic cuts in both transfers and customs protection, to create a very rhetoric around what is going on on the regulatory board, as they call it. I thought we should look at this in concrete terms: if we increase the price level of agricultural property, we increase the cost level of production, and then we reduce the level of income, and one of the things that causes us to lose our industry is the level of income. We might recall the development of the level of income under the bourgeois government in relation to the development of the level of income under this government. There should perhaps be someone else taking over, while we know that the civil government is putting in place a lot of measures that promote structuring and centralisation. So that use of words now I understand very well the need to hide what is really the consequence of the liberalist policy that the Progress Party is pursuing, and on which the Right and, on the part, the Left are committed. Then I want to say what is going on in regulation and the freedom of the individual: the former leader of the Bond Team in West Agder, said this, that some times we can get annoyed, but when we think about it, we see that in the long term this is what is also thinking about our freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1334	In the previous case, I was assigned the intention to try to cover a disagreement. I hope I'm not assigned to it in this case, because here's two straight contradictions. It is as black and white, the entrance to the discussion on this matter. What is said in this debate tells a lot about the Progress Party. It also tells a lot about the Right-wing approach to agricultural policy, as they agree with the proposal that is being promoted here by the minority. There is no doubt that what might have to be the intention of the minority proposals is, at least, not Norwegian agricultural policy, on the contrary. The intention and motive behind the proposal can be nothing more than to provide the maximum yield on the values of agricultural property, as is currently the case, irrespective of agricultural production at all. That is maximizing the capital that lies there, which is undoubtedly the minority's will behind the proposal. It is an honest matter, but do not cover it behind you want a credible entrance to Norwegian agricultural production. At least it's going to be very strange. I do not understand how it is possible to calculate that a farm that is traded for 3 million. kr, in a case envisaged, gives greater profitability or more eagerness to take over the farm if it is valued at 4 or 5 million. kr. How could a guy get an equation like that to go up? One has to be very liberal in his thinking to get it done. It's nothing but the consideration of profit on the existing property that is the background to this proposal, as I see it. It would be unnatural to endorse the minority's proposals if one is concerned with Norwegian agricultural policy. The pricing of concessional agricultural properties is necessary. It shows the small margins and the weak profitability that are there, and not least the relationship to a challenging market, a market that can never bear the increase you want to enter into Norwegian agricultural properties with the proposal you are proposing. It's completely impossible. And I think it's scary that someone basically justifies such a proposal on the basis of agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1347	The President will recommend all representatives to address the President when they make their statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1350	It's good to see that there's a little bit of a guy in the debate in the hall once in a while – maybe a little bit well in some contexts – but we'll try to drag the debate down a little bit. I just want to comment on a couple of things, first of all to the Council of State. For the Council of State, reference is made to something quite different, namely the transfers to agriculture. It has nothing to do with the pricing of agricultural properties, which we are talking about here. But the Council of State forgets one thing in its eagerness to tell us how much the Party of Advancement will reduce transfers by, that is, at the same time, doing a lot of work on deregulation, on what you can produce, on conversion quotas, etc. So there's a certain relationship between what you do on one side and what you do on the other side. The representative of Terje Aasland, Chairman of the Committee, was concerned about the importance of keeping the price down and not increasing the profitability of setting the price. No, but one of the problems of Norwegian agriculture today is a lack of investment. The lack of investment that we see today in Norwegian agriculture is one of the biggest problems we have. And that's actually a certain context: if you, for example, shall be able to borrow and operate with investment in its farm in order to make it more profitable, more attractive and easier to work there, there is indeed a link between what can be translated into the future and the willingness to take on the significant investments. And then this is one of the things that can actually be of keeping down one. Today, I don't think anyone in this room, except perhaps SV, could imagine a situation where we sat down and said that now we have to start price-fixing the apartments in Oslo Centre again, because it is completely unreasonable and unimaginable that people who are going to live in Oslo – because we want young people living here – have to pay so much for their apartments. There's a lot of ways to get there. But what's the whole point here, and the real difference is, are two parties, that is, a buyer and a seller, free to agree on a price for an agricultural property, or aren't they? Should it be possible for the State to enter and determine the price, or should this be left to the two parties, the owner of the property, and the person who wants to be the owner of the property? The Progress Party believes that it should be possible to decide by these two parties, worse it is not, and that the State does not have to interfere and tell you that this is going to be too expensive, this is not going to allow you to agree on, it is going to be 500,000 kroner lower. That's really what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1363	Per Roar Bredvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1367	I will once again refer to the Council of State, and the letter of 16 November, where he says the following: ‘The price level of agricultural property must not exceed the level at which a person with normal good use of the property’s operating base can obtain a satisfactory economic result.’ What is a ‘satisfactory economic outcome’? Because it depends on the sale price of the farm. And an economically satisfactory result depends on the one who wants to run the farm, and the one who has run the farm. But here's where the authorities have to decide. And then for the third time, I ask the Council of State if he can be so kind as to answer what is an economically satisfactory result.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1377	Irene Lange Nordahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1380	It was the post of the representative Nesvik who made me take the floor. When this with the pricing of property is used as a argument for agricultural investment, it is wrong. It is the income base of the farm that determines what funding will be provided from the bank. And then I think maybe Nesvik needs to take a little round to look at the situation. It is the income base that determines what you can expect from opportunities to obtain funding. And that's this revenue base the Progress Party will weaken, with cuts in the agricultural agreement of 7 billion. kr, deterioration of import protection and deregulation. A total decline in agriculture, and less investment in individual property, is therefore what the policy of the Progress Party will actually lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1385	Svein Fleet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1388	I very much agree with the Council when he says that the use of language should be subdued somewhat, but I react to the fact that the chairman of the committee calls the proposals of other parties "intimidating". If it's dampening language, I'm not quite sure. But a little to the representative of Aasland, who talks about increasing the values of agricultural properties being profited for the owners – or for the farmers. One of the same things was the representative from the Central Party just up and said something about: increasing the value of property, so that it can be a better loan object, can actually do something about the income base, if you look directly at it. For this means, as in all other industries, that you are able to invest to a better income base. And that's what all business, including agriculture, is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1395	The representative, Bredvold, asks many times what kind of income base is a use that has a value of 3 million. kr – I think that’s how I had to understand the question – should have. I want to answer simply that it is completely impossible to stand here on the pulpit of the Stortinget and determine what kind of income base a use should have. It is such that in those cases where price regulation is used — and it is not always used — the income base of the farm is assessed. The basis for such a price assessment may then be forest, or revenue may be from other sources. Then I would also like to stress that for the vast majority of properties traded in agriculture today, the price regulation mechanism is not used. I think it is important to take into account that for the vast majority of properties – I think it was the representative Nesvik who emphasised it – a sale between a buyer and a seller on a free basis. And I think that is absolutely positive. The point is that for some properties in which this instrument is used, it is important to ensure that the person taking over the farm is provided with an operational basis from which it is possible to live. Not having to pay too high is the ideological entrance to price regulation – that one has a socially beneficial price, such as industry, and society, is earned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1402	Sorry if the language theme was determined by the zeal of the debate instead. I'll try to get back in. I believe that for the future of Norwegian agriculture, the proposal by the minority is actually frightening. I can put it another way and say that in my opinion it will not benefit Norwegian agricultural policy in the years to come if it removes the price adjustments for concession-based agricultural property that are currently available. Then I agree with the Fleet that, in some cases, a higher value and value for money may be better in order to improve the coverage of debt financing. But in my opinion, that is not the way to attack Norwegian agricultural policy. In that case, it will not benefit agriculture all over the country. We are well aware that commercial property, including agricultural property, will be much lower – even the real value – in many places around the country. It's a challenge. But I think we have to tackle the problem in a completely different way – not by removing the regulation that lies there. Then the representative Nesvik had a little visit to the apartments in Oslo. Yeah, doesn't the Progress Party think it's a little daunting that the housing market and the pricing it's now in a heated market, is actually a little challenging for the Norwegian economy? It is not the conditions that would be desirable for Norwegian agricultural property, if that was the case. But I think regulation in moderate quantities, as it is actually available here, is quite right for Norwegian agricultural policy in the years to come – absolutely necessary. I think those who really take strong words in their mouths, are just the Progress Party, who call this kind of regulation for dictatorship. I think that more describes the Advance Party than this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1413	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3693]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1429	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1438	The matter we are about to deal with now – by the way, I hope some of the fut went out of the assembly in the previous round – is a bit in the same street as the previous case. In a letter from the Minister of Agriculture and Food dated 19 November 2010, the Council of State stresses that it is a continuous process to ensure that the law is adapted to the challenges of our time. Governments point out that agricultural property policy will be a topic that is relevant to the big picture of agricultural and food policy, which is announced during the spring session. This is about working for active agriculture in all parts of the country. It is essential to maintain the main features of the housing pattern and a living cultural landscape. To the right, the measures contained in the proposal relate to improving the operational capacity of farmers. The Christian People's Party does not believe that the removal of housing or price regulation on agricultural property is essential to improving farmers' operational capacity. We'd rather refer to the investigation that the county council of the North Trøndelag did a few weeks ago, where 90 pst. Of the 500 farmers who had black, they said that better economic conditions would be the biggest motivation to move on. Farmers are far below other occupations in income terms. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has asked the government several times to consider a low-wage supplement for the peasants, but we have not yet seen any initiative by the government in that area. Last year's farm plan lacked 210 million. to provide farmers with income development in line with other groups in society. A reasonable development of income would contribute to the recruitment of the profession and to the preservation of a varied structure of use across the country. This is what we believe in the Christian People's Party should come into place as soon as possible. 50 pst. by the farmers in the survey, they said that more leisure time was an important motivation for continued operation. For us, it is important to improve the welfare arrangements for the farmer. Farmers may not have much less opportunity for holidays and leisure than other groups. The housing obligation is about how to regulate the agricultural property market and whether we should have living settlements here in the country. Of course, there may be a lot of different opinions about this, but no one is forcing anyone to live on an agricultural property. As the file states, the justification for the rules on housing obligations relating to the purpose of residence and the consideration of an overall resource management and the cultural landscape are: It is important that people live around the farms in this country and that the soil is cultivated. The Christian People's Party is on an equal footing with others concerned about moving away from farming. There is a considerable variation between the different parts of the country. Relatively many live on farms in central areas – in the dairy area, around Oslofjord, on Jären and in Trøndelag – while there are very many agricultural estates without permanent residence in North Norway and in smaller central agricultural municipalities. The obligation to live and operate prevents a market from opening up to large-scale leisure properties for capital-intensive investors. Capital investors who stay only for short periods of holidays, etc., are not the Christian People's Party that sees as a forward-looking agricultural policy with living communities. A 2008 survey indicates that housing obligations provide more stable housing. Nine out of ten are never applying for a place of residence exemption, and among these, there is a high percentage chance that they will live on the farm for over 40 years after moving in. This may indicate that the housing obligation makes farmers think carefully about the situation before taking over and making a long-term choice. The Christian People's Party believes that compulsory living and working is an important instrument in rural and agricultural policy. Agricultural property forms the backbone of many rural communities and is the starting point for local value creation and local growth. I propose, on behalf of the majority of the committee, that the proposal by the representatives be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1472	I refer to the majority comments in the case, to which I subscribe. There are grounds for dwelling, compulsory employment, price control in the acquisition of agricultural property and the prohibition of sharing in land laws commented on in a way that is adequate for my view. I assume that the Right regards this proposal as one of its inputs in the debate on the new Landfill Communication on Agriculture and Food Policy. I also notice that in the government parties, we agree with the Right that one of the main global challenges is to produce food in a climate-friendly and sustainable way, and that, in a long-term and solidarity perspective, it is therefore becoming increasingly important to have good tools that can contribute to the production of food. When we agree on that, I have to say that I disagree with the Right, which will throw waste on the tools that allow to stimulate food production in small and large quantities across the country. Well, no one is satisfied that many uses are empty, and that the earth is not being run, but the answer to this challenge, in my view, is not to liberalize agricultural policy on the market. In the global perspective, our food production up to the Arctic Ocean is only 3 pst. of our area, which is cultivated soil. We in the Workers' Party – and there I am sure to take with me all three government parties – will exploit all cultivated land to produce food. Then we must have an active agricultural policy that stimulates and facilitates the conditions for those who want to bet. And if we are to succeed in having an agriculture throughout the country also in the future, governments and industry must play a role. Therefore, property law in agriculture — the law of the land and other laws of importance — must be constantly monitored to ensure that they function properly. Therefore, extensive changes were also made to property legislation in agriculture in 2009, and I agree with the Council of State that it takes time to gain experience with the changes made. Additional adjustments may be appropriate, but in this case they will have to be made as a result of experience gained in the period after 2009. Many people in agriculture are struggling economically today. We have to do something about that. It is among the main problems that need to be discussed in the big picture that the government is about to present. I have no faith that farmers and our country are served by fully deregulating agricultural legislation and liberalising agricultural policy. That is why I agree to reject this proposal. And then I realize that this is a debate we're coming back to on a broader basis when the big news about agricultural and food policy comes up for discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1489	First, I would like to promote the proposal made by the Progress Party and the Right, so that it has done so. Document 8:24 for 2010–2011, which deals with the operational capacity and possibilities of farmers to improve them, as well as strengthening private ownership, are matters for which the signatory party and the Progress Party have been very interested for many years. I don't think there is any other party that has had these matters up several times, and therefore I don't think any other party stands closer to the farmers' interests in these areas than exactly what the Progress Party is doing. The situation of Norwegian agriculture and farmers has never been worse than now, despite a red-green government and a central government council saying that they will take care of farmers’ interests. Never have so few been active farmers, i.e. withdrawing its principal income from the farm. Of those receiving production subsidies, which are currently about NOK 45 000, has only approx. 12-13 pst. the farm as its main source of income, i.e. 90 pst. of its total income. Speaking of which, this figure has continued to decline, and farmers who give up are doing so every day, even though the number is now less than before. This is not strange either, as there are fewer and fewer people who can stop. Very much of the cultivated soil is currently rented out, i.e. approx. 40 pst. of all cultivated soils is land for hire. The progress party does not see any concern about this when there is a voluntary agreement between the owner and the user. More scepticism is in the case of renting this Earth. The party of progress is afraid that the owner's right to rule will then, or may be, deteriorate. Something else you can notice is that a lot of the land has also been sold to other farms. In 30 years, farms have averaged three times as large, and e.g. meat production per year has doubled by five. This says something about how Norwegian agriculture has changed in recent years. Norwegian agriculture and all its special regulations are a hindrance to the healthy and sensible development of Norwegian agriculture. While it was previously an advantage to be noble or noble, this is now not fully given. The opportunities of youth for other exciting professions are tremendous, and you don't want to work as much as the previous generation did, often without any notable form of leisure time. You also want an income based on what you produce, and less on transfers from the state. In the mid-1970s, grants amounted to approximately 50 pst. of the income of the farm. Today, the state transfers are more than the income of the farmer. This should be of great concern to the political parties who want to regulate everything and make the active, capable farmer dependent on the generosity of the state. The Progress Party wants to free the farmer from the Norwegian special regulations, such as: the maximum price of a property. In the name of justice, we have to say that they've gotten a little better, but there's a lot left. Today it works so that when the buyer and the seller have agreed on a price, it is more than 1.5 million. kr, this shall be approved by the authorities. Where else can such regulations be found in society? You can invest in any other business, or buy yourself a house, a cabin, an apartment, etc. without the authorities caring, as long as you pay the charges associated with the purchase. But here you're going to make your life's investment, and the price of the farm is over 1.5 million. kr, in that case the authorities may stop this voluntary trade due to an excessive price compared to the yield of the farm. The buyer may see other and new opportunities for revenue that justify trade, but it does not take the authorities into account. So it's no wonder that it's approx. 35,000 agricultural properties that are empty, but where the owners can imagine selling if they get the price they want. I don't think anyone will sell for a lick and nothing that maybe several generations have built up. Then it'll be empty. Think of the evolution of local communities if they had been used either all or part of the year. There would be a blossoming for everyone: shops, gas stations, well-beings, sports teams, school, craftsmen – yes, everything and everyone would earn on this. And whoever would earn the most would be the state. Housing creates many and unnecessary problems for relatively many. A few years ago, a young boy – I think he was 11-12 years old – inherited a small farm with relatively small income possibilities. He had a choice between living on this farm or selling it. It goes without saying that a boy of this age can't move from his parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1514	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1517	Let me first say first of all about this proposal from the Right that it is the first sentence in which we are talking about improving the operational capacity of farmers, which is the background to the proposal. It is now a fact that the objectives of the Norwegian agricultural policy are not being achieved. There are too many cross-cutting objectives, the instruments are not related, and there is doubt about the effectiveness of many instruments. It may sound as if it were a ‘statement’ and a statement from the Right. That's not it, that's what the Riksrevision believes about Norwegian agriculture at its last review. This proposal that we are promoting takes only part of the agricultural policy, that is, the one that has to do with ownership and ownership of its own property. But it is one of the most important, for the special rules on housing, price regulation and the specific prohibition of sharing in the law of the land severely restricts the ownership of farmers. The aim of the rules is to serve the housing and benefit the agricultural industry in general, but the results show that this does not happen. The numbers' speech is ready, they've been referred several times here today. Then it is time to ask if the use of the instruments is correct. The situation today is, of course, poor profitability and lack of investment capacity and ambition in agriculture. That's what we're meeting from all the organizations we're talking to. Obligation promotes passive ownership because it prevents smoother and more nutrient-oriented turnover. The obligation to reside in private property is intended to ensure a residence. Studies show that there is no evidence that the purpose is being achieved. In other words, it cannot be established that the regulation serves its purpose, and there is also some of the purpose of our proposal, namely to discover and get a review of how this works. There is reasonable evidence to suggest that this works against its purpose as long as you do not have evidence to the contrary. The same applies to price regulation, which we debated thoroughly in the previous case. I'm not going to go into it any further. With regard to the ban on sharing, the development of agriculture has changed considerably since its introduction, originally in 1995. There is depopulation from many rural areas, and statistics show that there are fewer and fewer main incomes from agriculture. The premise that society sees best what is the most socially useful use of a property, I don't want to. I am convinced that owners themselves both see and notice developments before society and the system. They're not just owners, they're drivers, too. As regards the ban on sharing, I have to place a visit to an incubator in our note on page 4, where we write that a member of the board of Vestfold Bondelag believes that the sharing order does not apply in Vestfold. We have not yet imposed a sharing order in Westfold, which is the ban on sharing that applies. But the point was that this board member of the peasant team thought that in his county a sharing order would be the right, considered price development of dwellings versus property, and simply a desire from the industry for more freedom to construct the most important thing in the industry, so that it becomes optimal for the individual, and that's the property itself, that's what's the main means of operating. Then I am glad that the Council of State is taking so much space in its response to the committee to point out what he has already done. It gives me a feeling -- I hope it's not wrong -- that he doesn't think the special regulations work for the best of agriculture either. And his statement about a continuous process to get the law into the pact over time I consider positive. I also heard the representative Haugen say in his post that you had to follow this all the time. I really hope you do. We now have a good opportunity to do so, as the agricultural report comes. An agricultural notification that will lay the foundations and premises for 10 years in the future — perhaps longer, perhaps a little shorter — and which will have an impact on investment, risk and innovation opportunities must say something about this. It's absolutely necessary that something comes up about this. Let me also say that our proposal to remove these special regulations has a background in a desire to improve the individual's ability in one of our most important industries. Then I would like to send a visit to the President-in-Office, who is no longer in the Chamber. She says she's afraid of capital investors in agriculture. It's not me. I think that, in fact, with the profitability you have, is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1538	I didn't mean to take the word in this case, because it's pretty much like the previous case, and it's a number in the line of similar issues that come from the Progress Party and the Right, as I pointed out in the previous case. But there's a couple of arguments left with the previous speakers, which I want to make a few comments on. The fleet always pointed out that there is poor profitability in the industry, so we need more right-wing policy. Then I can ask, why couldn't a better salary be created in the industry when the bourgeois government had control? If you go back and look at the statistics, you'll see that developments in terms of salary in the industry were nothing to boast about under the bourgeois government compared to today's government. This may indicate that their right-wing policies will now save the industry, perhaps not working when it is put into practice. The second argument I have a comment on is the argument of the Progress Party, which is constantly compared to other business. We're going to do that, of course, but we're going to have to assume that a resource-based industry in a complicated country that Norway cannot compare to any other industry. If one doesn't realize that we need to have other schemes in an industry like the agricultural industry than in any other industry, I might think of a shooting a little over the target, or to say this: A shooting at the wrong barn wall. I think I'll settle for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1549	First, I want to refer to the comments that the majority have made. I fully support those comments. In my post, I want to focus on ownership, which we in the Center Party are concerned about. The security of ownership is an important value for individuals, and such security contributes to ensuring important social interests. The security of ownership must be assumed to stimulate owners' interest in managing the property in a long-term perspective, so that values are maintained for generations. The property laws provide both rights and obligations in the case of the purchase of agricultural property. The holder of an agricultural property has a management responsibility where resources are to be managed in a long-term perspective. Personal ownership of resources is a crucial principle and important to ensure long-term sustainability. The farmers constitute a large group of entrepreneurs in Norway and it is important that they have good and predictable framework conditions. The interaction between the law of the land, the law of the concession and the law of the nobility and the right of residence contributes greatly to the diversity of agriculture in Norway, which balances the needs for long-term and sustainable resource management and food production and the need for the economic exploitation of the same resources, which in turn provide the basis for income and housing. Property law is a prerequisite for a varied property structure and thus ownership as an opportunity for the many, not a right for the few. Property laws balance Norwegian tradition, with obligations to own an agricultural property – obligations to deal with important societal issues related to food production, land conservation and settlement throughout the country. Property rights provide a predictable framework for the harvesting of land and natural resources and thus the basis of income and life. The property laws are culturally closely linked to the development of Norwegian society. Norway has a different property structure than many other countries, where property is distributed to very few hands and has been subject to more speculation and free movement. The size of consumption units is relatively small here to land, and there are many properties and many owners. The regulatory framework is well suited to meet the challenges facing agriculture and district Norway in the short and long term, in particular following the changes promoted by the government. These laws contain good and dynamic instruments for long-term management of ownership and operation of agricultural property, in order to ensure sustainable use and socially sound production based on both local and national assumptions and objectives. The title guarantees the long-term and personal ownership of agricultural resources by managing the work and capital of generations for the benefit of the family by the owner. These rights also lead to predictability at generational changes in agriculture, as both the transferor and the transferee can prepare early for the generational shift. The Odel Law Institute is also an important contribution to equal opportunities in agriculture and rural development. The Odel Law Committee points out in NOU 2003:26 that girls will lose more easily the competition with younger brothers for the acquisition of the property of their parents in the event of the revocation of the Odel Act and that the right to vote still plays an important role in the context of gender equality. I would also like to point out that the right of nobility and the right of establishment helps to counteract the fragmentation of agricultural property and prevents agricultural land from becoming ordinary goods and objects of speculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1564	When I read the proposal for a representative, it looks as if the representatives believe that the abolition of laws and regulations in agriculture is the only solution to the pessimism they believe to have registered in the industry. It is also noted that Norwegian agriculture is in a time of fate and that legislative changes can reverse the situation. I have also recorded pessimism and unrest in the industry, but it is not related to the conditions mentioned here. The overwhelming concern is the income and investment needs of industry. Income development was too weak for a long time. As a result, the government has facilitated an increase in income and improved capital. It has been necessary, and it will also be necessary in the future. There is a need for a substantial renewal of the operating appliance and it requires faith that future revenues can bear the investment required. Along with good welfare schemes, good income opportunities and investment instruments are, in particular, reducing the financial burden in the first few years, the most important thing we can do to bring optimism into the industry and the desire to invest in the young people who are going to enter it. We give priority to the most important thing. That's a wise policy. So the reason for pessimism is not rules on housing, price control, etc. concerning agricultural property. A doctoral thesis from 2009 by Frode Flemsetter, which I have mentioned in a previous debate in this room, shows otherwise that in many cases connection and relative feeling are more important than the legislation on whether an owner wants to sell a property. I think that is in line with the experience of many. It is therefore not the legislation that should be addressed in the first instance when the aim is to reverse pessimism in industry. However, I am concerned that legislation should be adapted to today's challenges, as also the representative Fleet pointed out in a previous post, and also, on a very fundamental basis, believe that there will always be a need to look at opportunities for simplification, clarification and improvement. The changes in property law from summer 2009 are, in my view, an example of a review where this was central and necessary. These are changes that we have received a lot of positive feedback on afterwards. It is now necessary to look at how the new rules work over time. The obligation to live has an impact on who is involved in the acquisition of an agricultural property. Many properties are transferred within the family and, in many cases, the choice of the person to be taken over is made on the basis of an assessment of who is most suitable for it and who is willing to meet the requirements for residence and operation. In this way, the rules contribute to the use of the property as a place of residence and economic activity. The figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that approximately 80 pst. by those who own an agricultural property, live on their farms. This is a relatively large proportion, and I think it is due to an overall use of instruments, where the obligation to live is one of several elements. The changes in the dwelling obligation adopted in 2009 provide the means for several dwellings on an agricultural property to be used for residential purposes. Many studies have been carried out on the effects of housing, whether housing is on an agricultural property or in vulnerable local communities that have introduced local housing regulations — the zero-limit scheme. Overall, the studies do not support a conclusion that a dwelling obligation does not work in relation to the considerations justifying the current rules. On the contrary, several studies indicate that there is a correlation between the dwelling and the considerations to be taken into account. In this regard, I would like to be corrected by a misunderstanding relating to a study on housing obligations. In the debate on housing and human rights on 8 February this year, the representative Per Roar Bredvold issued an opinion by researcher Magnar Forbord during an interview on 8 November 2008 with the Evening Post. Foreboard shall have stated that the dwelling obligation does not work. However, the researcher himself found reason to correct this in an article in the paper of 28 November of the same year. He then stated about his report: ‘The report may not be used to draw conclusions such as ‘the non-function of the dwelling has finally been demonstrated’.’» He went on to point out: ‘Our study suggests that this tool has been overestimated over the years and that municipalities that have ceased have felt that the instrument was of little importance. At the same time, municipalities – zones – where the instrument is most likely to have an effect.’ I have to add that precisely this survey did not apply to housing on agricultural property, but to municipal housing in vulnerable communities, the so-called zero-border system. So a little bit about duty. The global challenges of food security, climate and population growth make it increasingly important to strengthen instruments that can contribute to food production. Cultivated and arable land is a basic but limited resource, and the owner of the agricultural area has an important management responsibility in relation to food production. This is the background to the fact that the obligation to operate today is a permanent obligation for owners of agricultural land. The active operation of such areas may also reduce the risk of land degradation. I record that the opposition indicates that it is difficult for plant producers to operate on crop rotation while at the same time complying with the ten-year lease requirement. I do not agree with that, and I will continue with that argument later, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1596	That's good. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1602	It's a fact that it says about. 35,000 empty farms in Norway, i.e. uninhabited farms. There's been a lot of talk about this today, and I haven't really got a clear answer from the government about what it's going to do to make this number at least not increase. It's better to sink, of course. 35000 non-inhabited agricultural properties are high numbers. These are largely spread throughout Norway, but, of course, there may be more in some districts than in other districts. So once again, I ask the Council of State, what will the government do to make this number preferably sink? Because that's the goal we all have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1609	There are different reasons why farm use is empty in Norway in different districts and branches. I agree with the representative Bredvold that there are too many people who are not used, and I would like more people to be used, either as a place of residence or for the production of food, as we would like to be. However, the basic basis for farm use to produce food — most important for them — is the creation of income opportunities through use. Therefore, as before, a main strategy is: to increase farm income, both through market withdrawals and, where appropriate, through the necessary transfers, in order to enable the use to be operated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1614	I don't think the council should draw this doctoral thesis he's been talking about several times today, about having a sense of kinship for his farm, too far. There is no evidence as to how the regulations work, because many people think they seem unlucky. Breck himself believes that they have seemed unlucky, so he has changed them. We ask in this proposal, among other things. an explanation of the overall social aspects of all the specific regulations on agricultural properties that are both operational and non-residential. My question is, do we know enough about how this works, or would this be a reasonable review?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1619	What was the starting point for mentioning this so-called research report from the Norwegian Research Centre for Rural Research is to stress that there are different reasons why properties are not traded in the market – properties that can be traded with or without price regulation, with or without accommodation, because that is what we are talking about. Here it turns out that research says that family feelings and relationships are much more important than what you've seen in the past. Of course, a sensible development of the legislation – which I have also tried to mention in my first post here – is good to implement. As the responsible State Council, I have implemented this by promoting property law for the Storting in 2009, and I am committed to looking further at the opportunities that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1624	The representative of Bredvold asked the Minister for 35,000 empty uses and what to do to stop that development. The Minister then replied that there was a need to increase the income of the use. Then my question about the negotiations that are now taking place in agriculture is this: last year, the sum of the heads of milk was reduced to a percentage of milk. Would it be possible to do the same thing with the cheese, make a percentage of the cheese in order to get more speed in the use to prevent removal? Will there be one thing that the Council of State will now present in the agricultural settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1629	First of all, as I have stressed many times, the most important thing to ensure housing, and activity in Norwegian agriculture, on uses that should have been settled, is to increase income in general, or at least make sure that the land is used so that food can be produced there. As regards the agricultural negotiations pointed out here by the representative, Mr Tåldal, in his statement, they have not started. It is that we have not yet received the demand from the agricultural organisations. We have also not designed an offer, and I think it is wrong to start commenting on elements of this in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1636	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1641	When one listens to the last two debates, one suspects that it is not just the Central Party Council that has a limited movement pattern. Here you've been around talking to farmers, and you haven't met anyone who wants to change. All the farmers that have been made will have the Senter Party, they will have existing policies and they will have existing regulations. It's a small paradox when the Council of State says that when it comes to the disposal of agricultural property, you really don't need a law because those who don't want to sell, they don't sell. There are only a few who come under the regulation. Nevertheless, it is actually that you have to have a law and have a regulation of it. What we have to remember, with some lovely exceptions, is that there are old, gray men who have discussed agriculture in these two matters in this room today. This is an industry that will attract young people. It's actually not like that if you just make four kilos of regulations and a big law book and some big regulations, young people jump into the weather and say that this is something you want to be part of! When we travel around and discuss agricultural policy, we meet young people who want to see a career opportunity. They want to see it in agriculture as well. But in order for them to go into agriculture, there must be an open road out in a while, because today the life of young people changes much faster than it does for us old, gray. This cannot be done by the Central Party with the policy they are pursuing today. There's no way out of the industry at all. There's a shot at the end where the farmers are clientised and come running with timber logs here to Oslo to beg and ask for new arrangements, new regulations and new support schemes. It does not create a tense, forward-looking nourishment. That should be the policy we are pursuing, creating. Then I have to say hello to the chairman of the committee, who uses terms like: in the interests of agricultural policy. In fact, we're not here for agricultural policy, but we're going to try to create a policy that takes into account those who are going to be involved in agriculture. We're not fixing that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1654	I have been listening a little bit to the debates here today, also a previous case that was on the map, and amazes me a little over some statements. Now it has been said that I have a connection to the industry. I run a farm myself and was the former rapporteur in an agricultural municipality, how many of the themes today are concerned. Of course, 60 years ago, when I grew up as a little boy, there were a lot of small farms that worked well. You served for the rest of your life. Today, almost none of the uses are in operation. Why, we can ask ourselves. Well, of course, because there is no government willing to transfer so much money to agriculture that you should be able to live off a small soil. That's why we've got the rationalization that's been going on, with or without will, from changing governments. That I think is a development we have to look into the eyes are going to continue. It's now once that the development of tools has led you to do at least ten times as much today per hour as you did 50 years ago. Then it is not reasonable for you to have an annual income in the context of an effort on a small use. I think you have to look in your eyes even though it's never so interesting and funny, or what you're going to call it, that it was 'light in all the house' and that a drive was the same as before. It just doesn't matter. Then I think we have to figure out that what has now been a clip about the foot and a disadvantage, is that the uses have not been negotiable because the price level has been such that no one will sell. No one will sell these small farms, for as long as you can rent out the earth, a small soil spot, hops and goes. I'm surprised that you don't see the rationality of having people keep the houses and sell the land to someone who wants to farm, so that we get an efficient agriculture here in the country. There's been some kind of experiment on it lately by renting out the land for a maximum of ten years. There is also a problem for many, because there are many who stand in the position that – I have been contacted by several young people – they intend to move home within a decade. But if they're renting out the earth, they have to do it for ten years. Ergo must have rented out the earth after they intend to move home, and that's another problem. There were just a few of the regulations with which agriculture is hampered today, which I was given time to comment on now, but there are a number of regulations that will not benefit the farmers of the future if we want to have a good agriculture here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1669	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3693]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1685	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1694	Purification is an important responsibility of the Business Committee. That is also why it is a subject that the Committee is still dealing with. One of the reasons is that reindeer operation according to the Norwegian model is relatively complicated, and that it has a special place in Norwegian law. It also shows the position of the Committee, which is sprinkling in both comments and proposals. Part of the picture is also that we look forward to the announced agricultural notification, where the Council of State announces that reindeer management is given proper space, publicity and treatment. It can also be mentioned that the red-green remarks, in confidence to the Council of State, expect reindeer to become more sustainable now, both ecologically, economically and culturally, a rather exciting image – in my opinion. Otherwise, I assume that the other parties explain their comments and any suggestions in the matter. The Act on reindeer management begins by imposing the following requirements on reindeer management: clean-up operations shall be carried out both ecologically, economically and not least culturally sustainable. What is meant by ‘ecologically sustainable’ is often the subject of the public debate. The term includes both animal health and animal health. It includes operating size, operating modes and means of operation. Although it's complicated, it might seem that in recent years you've at least managed to stop some kind of definition that several people can agree on. It will eventually be of great help. The term ‘economic sustainable’ in such a regulated industry as reindeer management is, in my opinion, the wrong use of the term. The usual economic instruments of the business sector, such as investment funds, exemption from operating charges and depreciation, have been cut off altogether, instead of getting everything into the reindeer management agreement. In addition, when using the same agreement to cut all elements that could make the industry market-oriented, it is to use a term such as ‘economically sustainable’ to almost count as a game for the gallery. The last requirement for the industry is that it be culturally sustainable. Here there are many, including myself, who are struggling with what to add to this term. As I said, the red-greens expect not only cultural sustainability, but more cultural sustainability after the new agricultural communication is presented. The use of such concepts without clearly telling what is in them makes a sensible debate difficult. I therefore look forward to being informed by the Council of State, or representatives of the majority, of what they put in the term. The right-hand side looks with conditional expectation until the notified agricultural notification. Nevertheless, we believe that it is so important to take a holistic view of reindeer management that we do not want to support the proposal of the Progress Party, but we suggest that it be annexed to the protocol. I take up the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1713	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1716	The proposal of the Progress Party in this matter is not a good and appropriate proposal now – not because everything is in the hands of the reindeer management, I believe that the rapporteur's contribution is underlined. We in the Workers' Party agree with many of the problem descriptions of the proposers. In my opinion, we have explained that in our comments. But in the middle of the interview by putting in place the rules of use, and when the National Audit Office is now launching a new study on the sustainable use of resources in Finnmark, we believe that it is not rational to use resources to set up an independent review committee to go through support schemes in reprocessing. Many of the elements covered by the National Audit Office’s review will be applicable to the entire scope of reindeer management policy. I don't believe that we're gathered here today to discuss the wording of the reindeer management law paragraphs. That's something we took for ourselves in the last period. I would like to add that reindeer management will have its place in the notification of agricultural and food policy, and that the notification will address systems for clarifying unexplained rights. There we are, in my view, at the heart of the problem. The rights of the winter pastures in West Finland have no one so far to solve. But if we are to achieve ecological, cultural and sustainable reindeer in this area, then it must be resolved, and it must be discussed in a thorough manner in the communication, I assume that. If the Council of State is interested in a proposal from me, it will be to put a competent right to land change on the matter, a right to land change with staff in relation to the tasks to be solved. I have faith in that. But there may well also be other ways to solve these rights problems. But that it's urgent, I agree, and it has to be put in place before one is able to put the rules of use in place in a good way. Once the right ratio is established, we have systems that ensure that the usage rules will come into place. Then a lot has been done, without me suggesting that the problems of reindeer in Finnmark are out of the world with that. But what remains is, in my view, identifiable challenges that management together with the reindeer itself should be able to meet. As regards the conclusion on this matter, I recommend the majority recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1727	First, I would like to take up the proposal of the Progress Party and also to inform you that we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party. For the past 15-17 years, the State has granted nearly 2 billion. kr for reindeer operation. Throughout the country, there are 550 persons eligible for grants under the reindeer management agreement. The large transfers would include: result in the reindeer being brought into balance with the grazing basis. Instead, the reindeer have grown across all borders, and many pastures are critically poor. Every year, the Norwegian Rein driftsssamer Landsförbund and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food negotiate a reindeer management agreement. In recent years, there have been over 100 million redeployment appropriations in the grubbing-up agreement. kr per. years. Progress party representatives have on several occasions highlighted the economic and ecological sustainability situation of the reindeer industry and, in the case of conflicts, both internally in industry and with other economic operators. In this context, a number of written questions, Question Time questions and an interpellation with Minister of Agriculture and Food Lars Peder Breck have been identified, highlighting conflicts between large communities, farmers and the reindeer industry and the situation in the reindeer industry in general. This is why it is urgent to put in place sustainable reindeer management, with the background that clean provides a strong pressure on the resource situation in Finnmark and creates problems for, among other things. peasants. In the context of the examination by the Storting of the position of the nutrition committee on the 2011 state budget, representatives from the Progress Party pointed out that the reindeer in Finnmark was too high and that large animal tragedy occurred due to food shortages. In an interview with Aftenposten 15 January 2011, professor of reindeer drift at the Swedish University of Agriculture, Öje Danell, says that the risk of collapse in the reindeer industry is imminent. We have registered regular, negative media postings on the reindeer industry, where operators from the reindeer industry are themselves open about how to manipulate with reindeer etc. The industry is facing major challenges and there is a need for a thorough review of the industry's framework conditions. I am sorry that I am still detecting the efforts of the Council of State to discharge liability when it comes to compensation for the loss of pure to predatory game. I am of course well aware that this is within the Ministry of the Environment, but I would argue that this is such an important issue in terms of both economic and cultural sustainability that it appears very unfortunate that the Council of State will not see this in connection with the other problems. We have recorded that in the last few years there have been conflicts in relation to the reindeer industry in several places in all the northernmost states. This applies, inter alia, to: a significant imbalance between permitted cleanness and real cleanness, which in turn has a significant negative impact on animal welfare, since the purity is not consistent with sound resource management, due to predatory practices on the grazing basis. We have also recorded that the conflict between them and the conflict with other industrial interests in and in relation to reindeer pastures have escalated, without public authorities going in to control the reindeer industry. This has also been confirmed by the police on several occasions. You can see what's going on, for example. on the island of Senja: it is now invaded by pure. This has been addressed with the Council of State, who has said he will take control of the situation and get something done about it. What happens is that the situation is escalating. There have been twice as many clean ones, which in turn threatens the drinking water bodies etc. It's kind of a failure statement when you reward those who break the law, who move clean into an area where you're not allowed to be clean, an area that's declared not legal for reindeer breeding. When you let the industry do this without intervening, and without doing anything about it, you premium crimes. I don't think that's lucky. It is therefore necessary to enter into the aid, grant and compensation schemes that the government annually transfers over the State budget and through the reindeer management agreement to the reindeer operators in order to identify the real extent of the situation in the reindeer industry. So here you point out that you don't want to have a review because you have the Riksrevision. The National Audit Office is going to go in and look at the problem. But with all due respect: almost every year, the Riksrevision comes with harsh criticism of major issues, a criticism that has to be addressed. The problem is that you don't do anything about it – the size doesn't do anything about it, the council doesn't do anything about it. You just stick your head in the sand and hope that the problems are over when your head comes up again. Unfortunately, the only thing that happens now is that the problems are escalating. That's why we need to set up an independent review committee now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1761	It is an important proposal that will be taken into account in the matter that we are dealing with now. The sewerage industry is facing major challenges and it is necessary to identify measures that can improve the situation. It is important to facilitate a sustainable reprocessing industry, both ecologically, culturally and economically. Frank Bakke-Jensen challenges us to define what we're dealing with. I don't think I'm going to have a long way to go about this today, but it's about the fact that there should be a reasonable relationship between the resource base and the way we use the resource base. And it should be possible to keep historical traditions within the industry. So I think there's a lot in the way we're dealing with when we're going to develop a resilient reindeer industry policy. The proposers are concerned with the control of the support and back-up schemes. The National Audit Office is responsible for the proper use of public funds. It also applies to the reindeer. As stated in the letter from the Minister of Agriculture, the Riksrevision will start a new study of the sustainable use of resources in Finnmark. This review will also be relevant for reindeer operations. The Cleanhouse Act of 2007 introduced a new principle for the management of reindeer management. It replaced a management regime that had been shown to be inefficient. The implementation of the new law is in an important phase, with the introduction of approved rules of use that also cover the number of pure. All districts shall have approved operational rules during 2011 and the Ministry shall follow this process closely. We are looking forward to this work reducing the level of conflict in the industry. The sewerage industry will also be part of the already announced notification of Norwegian agricultural policy. We are looking forward to a broad discussion about a resilient reindeer industry in that context. In the light of the ongoing processes, we do not see that an independent review selection is feasible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1776	There is no doubt that parts of reindeer operations face significant challenges and that it is important that action is taken as soon as possible to remedy the situation. I also know a number of concrete events over a long time. It underlines the high level of attention this also has among the population. The centre party will also underline the importance of the sustainability of the industry, both ecologically, culturally and economically. In this context, I would also refer to the letter of the Council of State of 15 February 2011 to the Committee, and the Central Party fully agrees that it would not be efficient resource use to set up a review committee to review the aid schemes for the reindustry. In this context, I would like to point out that the National Audit Office carries out controls and audits of the use of public funds for the reindeer industry. The National Audit Office is now launching a new study on the sustainable use of resources in Finnmark. Many of the elements covered by this revision will be applicable to the entire scope of reindeer management policy. I would also like to point out from the centre party that it is now working actively to put in place approved usage rules in line with the new reindeer management law. I assume that the ministry will follow up this work carefully in the time to come, and follow up with sanctions if necessary. The new Landfill Communication on Agriculture and Food Policy will also include the reindeer management policy and will include the communication. consider systems for clarifying unexplained rights. Then we get several opportunities to debate issues about reindeer management. The central party supports the position of the majority in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1793	Purgatory policy is a balance between three areas: animal health, nutrient basis and ecological sustainability. There are challenges to reindeer management in all these three areas. The Christian People's Party believes that reindeer farming can make good use of resources in marginal mountain and outback areas, and that it is a central bearer of Sami culture. The Christian People's Party believes that the measures of reindeer management policy must be designed in such a way as to make industry more sustainable in both ecological, economic and cultural terms. Through the government parties, we have become aware that reindeer management policy will be part of the announced growth message on agricultural and food policy. In our opinion, that is not enough. Purification is such an important industry that it must not drown in an agricultural message. It is almost 20 years since the Stortinget dealt with its own deposit notice on reindeer operation, St.meld. No 28 for 1991-1992. The Christian People's Party believes that a new reindeer management message needs to be prepared in the light of the major changes that have occurred in the reindeer operation during this period. This applies at the ecological level, with land use interventions, land losses, predatory losses and climate change, at the legal level, with an increased focus on customary law, new reindeer law and new reindeer grazing convention, and at the economic level, with the conversion of grant and compensation schemes. In addition, the reindeer industry, particularly in Finnland, has challenges related to production variations, low slaughter weights, very high reported predatory losses and low productivity. The Christian People's Party therefore calls for an overall review of the industry in its own big message. In the spring of 2007, a new redeployment law was passed in Stortinget. The law was the result of a long and thorough process, and the new rules are an innovation both for reindeer management and for society. The new reindeer management law provides for internal self-government in reindeer management in a completely different way than in the past, while allowing the authorities to discharge their overall responsibility for the sustainability of reindeer management. New instruments were also put in place to reduce excessive cleanness. We need those tools right now. The situation of the low pastures on Finnmarksvidda is far from good enough. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the efforts to reduce the reindeer in the most vulnerable areas of Finnmark take a long time, and is concerned that this important work is being followed up to ensure that clean-up operations are as sustainable as possible. The Christian People's Party requests that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes, as indicated in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1812	The proposal to set up a review committee to review the support and grant schemes for the reindeer industry and the compensation schemes for reindeer management is justified, inter alia. the fact that there have been large transfers to this industry over the year, without the reindeer having come into balance with the resource base. Furthermore, bad pasturage and conflict between reindeer and agriculture are cited. Initially, I must state that all public funds are to be used in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. Furthermore, it is important that they are used efficiently and in such a way as to achieve the stated objectives and performance requirements. Of course, these basic assumptions also apply to support for the reindeer industry and to a continuous assessment of the reindeer management policy and system. In addition, checks and audits are carried out on the use of public funds for the reindeer industry, including: of the Riksrevisionen. I recognise that there are still major challenges to achieving the reindeer policy objectives. Although there has been a record slaughter withdrawal in the last season, the need for a reduction in purity will require further increases in slaughter yields in the coming harvest. This could be challenging if the difficult market situation for reindeer meat persists. I also record that several of the measures promoted by several governments over time, which have been dealt with and adopted in this Chamber, have not had the desired effect. However, in relation to current reindeer management challenges and the processes that are now being implemented, I consider that it would not be efficient resource use to set up a review sample to review the reindeer management support schemes. This can be justified by several factors. The central reindeer area is in Finnmark. It is in this area that we have had and have the greatest challenges to achieve the reindeer policy objectives. The reason is particularly linked to the overgrazing of some districts in relation to the resource base, and it is usually in the same districts that there is an imbalance between the number of reindeer and the nutrient base. These conditions have contributed significantly to increased internal conflicts in common grazing areas. In the light of these circumstances, the Riksrevision started a new study on the sustainable use of resources in Finnmark. Given that the specific challenges of reindeer management are in Finnmark, I find it natural that the management audit is based on this area. However, many of the elements covered by the audit will also apply to the entire reindeer policy area. The two key means of achieving the reindeer management policy objectives are the reindeer management law and the reindeer management agreement. Both instruments have changed significantly in recent years. The effect of new reindeer management laws is not yet fully measurable, but in my opinion the overall conversion that has taken place will bring the reindeer development in the right direction. The reindeer management agreement 2003/2004 substantially re-designed the grant schemes. The side and domestic contributions were changed from schemes that were largely fixed amounts per side to schemes that premium output and value creation. This implies that, while the schemes were previously linked to a minimum production requirement in kilograms, the schemes were now linked to the value of what is produced. Furthermore, the focus was on measures to facilitate increased slaughter and placing on the market of reindeer meat. Experience figures clearly show that meat production has both increased and remained at a more stable level after the introduction of the subsidy schemes. I would also like to stress that the conversion has contributed to a change of attitude in many areas, particularly among younger reindeer farmers. Instead of large reindeer flocks, attention is now more focused on production and earnings. This is positive. I would also like to present an assessment of this part of the policy on waste management in the main communication on agricultural and food policy. The implementation of the 2007 Act on reindeer management is now at an important and crucial stage. As is well known, the reindeer management law of 2007 introduced a completely new principle for reindeer management. The previous system, which worked for 30 years, proved to be ineffective both in terms of the determination of purity, industry co-responsibility and the possibility of penalising infringements. This has been amended by the 2007 Act. The most important tool here is to put in place approved usage rules, including purity. It is now working very actively to put in place the rules of use. All districts shall have approved rules of use during 2011. When approved rules of use are available, work on achieving a sustainable level of purity could be carried out. It will also be possible to penalise those who do not comply with decisions on upper pensions. In the case of pasturage conflicts within reindeer management and conflicts with other interests, many of these will be greatly reduced or removed when the reindeer are reduced. For those areas where the internal conflicts in reindeer management are due to real disagreements or unexplained rights, a system of clarification is now being worked on in the department. This issue will also be addressed to the Stortinget in the forthcoming communication on agricultural and food policy. I would also like to point out that it is the Ministry of the Environment that is responsible for the replacement of wild game. For information, work is now under way to assess a new compensation scheme for the loss of pure to wild game.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1840	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1844	You're always referring here to not having an independent investigation, as I said in my post, because the Riksrevision has now entered. But if we go back over the last ten years, we see that the Riksrevision has been in and out of the problem in Finnmark, and they have come across criticism and actually asked for a decision to be taken – that it does not fully achieve what the Storting has adopted. The previous business committee also pointed out during the discussion that not everything was in charge. Now we're waiting for the Riksrevision to produce a report. The Council of State has chosen not to listen to any of the things that the Riksrevision has said in the past. I want to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State see any possibilities? What will he do with the report with which the Riksrevision comes? Will the Council of State take action, or will he just put it in a drawer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1853	I would like to reject the claim made by the representative, Treldal, that it is not doing anything – it was not a concept he used – but that it is not doing anything to follow the indications of the Riksrevision. I would like to stress that in the field of sewage treatment legislation, more has now been done in a short time than was done many years earlier in the context of follow-up. During 2011, the reindeer management has been told to put in place a cut-off number and rules of use that provide a trend in the purgatory to be in proportion to the grazing base, i.e. a sustainable reindeer. We've got conflicts in Alta, we've got other conflicts and we've been working hard to improve the situation. However, it is not a matter of making a mistake to change a situation that has been allowed to develop for 30 years. We have to take note of that. It's necessary to do something, and we're currently doing more than what's been done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1862	In response to my statement, the representative Arne L. Well, we weren't here to define the terms, because that would have been done in the last period. Now not everyone is so old that we've been here for all the periods. Perhaps the Council of State can undertake to give me a definition of the concept of ‘cultural sustainability’ and what it has to say for the reindeer industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1869	Then I would recommend that the representative Bakke-Jensen read Prop. 1 S and also read documents related to the grubbing-up contract. There is a definition of economic, ecological and cultural sustainability. I am the first to realize, as the representative Bakke-Jensen stresses, that there are interpretation possibilities, and that there is uncertainty about what those proposals mean. But my starting point is that through the policy that is being pursued, we must ensure that reindeer management is economically good for those who are engaged in the industry. We want to improve income. As far as organics are concerned, my interpretation is that we are to ensure that there is a sustainable reindeer management, that there is a reindeer consistent with the grazing basis, that it is healthy and good practice. We are actively working on that through the rules of use. As far as cultural sustainability is concerned, we need to realise – and I hope that the representative Bakke-Jensen agrees – that reindeer management is also important for the culture of the community, and that we must also take care of it through the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1880	I want to go back to the previous answer the Council of State gave me, where he said that they had cleared up the conflicts that were. I've previously been in this room – up to three or four times – raising the issue with the State Council at Senja, where we're going to have to commit crimes. Decisions are taken by the reindeer management authorities, but they do not comply with the decisions they make, and they are not followed up at all. The peasants feel completely overwhelmed. They had brought down predator statistics pretty well, because they've been working hard on it for many years. Now you register that predators come into the area, and this is exactly a time of year when you're going to start releasing the sheep as well. So the peasants are desperate, and they feel betrayed by the council. My question to the Council of State is once again: Why don't the Council of State solve the problems of Senja when you break the law, and you can use the law to clean it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1889	Let me be the first to stress that it is unfortunate that we have such situations that have been on the Senja and on the Lenvik peninsula lately, and that have been taken up by the representative of the Treldal. I've underlined that earlier. The Regional Council – those responsible for the administration there – has taken a decision on the eradication. Animal welfare has been reserved. What I've been informed lately is that the animals are now out of the area. In fact, it is very long after they should be out, but at least there is an improvement in the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1896	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1916	World market developments in 2008 have caused many to wake up. While increasing climate problems threaten food production in parts of the world, population growth will impose additional requirements on food production. The maintenance of Norwegian food production with increased imports of feed is hardly a solution we can accept in the future. While imports of power-feed are increasing, agricultural land in Norway is increasingly being decommissioned. The development is, not surprisingly, the worst in the West. Since the thousand-year shift, 24 000 farms have ceased operation. One-fourth of these are western agriculture. There's almost 40 pst. the withdrawal of the uses during the last 10 years. Increasing food prices on the world market is leading to even more serious developments in Norway. Norway must re-establish emergency storage of cereals as soon as possible. Cereals are the basic product of food production. Drying or natural disasters can rapidly change cereal availability. Without grain stores, we are very vulnerable to such events. Over the last year, extreme weather and natural disasters have hit important cereal-producing countries, such as Russia and Australia. The situation has caused concern that the production of food will not keep up with demand. Last year, Russia experienced catastrophic drought and devastation, with subsequent bankruptcies among farmers all over the country. This threatens next year's cereal yield and may lead to Russia being excluded from the export market for several years. This increases the risk of food shortages and increased cereal prices elsewhere in the world. This is just an example of the fact that, in a short time, grain availability can change dramatically globally. Norway is also dependent on cereal imports. After the poor grain harvest in 2009, it was estimated that we needed to import more than 234 000 tonnes of food grain and 315000 tonnes of cereals for power feed. At the same time, about 30,000 covert cereals are taken out of production in Norway each year on the basis of poor profitability. The long-term picture is that the world has to increase food production by 70 pst. by 2050 on the basis of expected population growth. This demands agricultural and trade policy in all countries. Combined with an increased risk of extreme weather, this means that emergency storage will be undertaken as soon as possible. Cereal stocks are important both in terms of preparedness and agricultural policy. The Christian People's Party will have offensive objectives for agricultural policy. Active farming across the country requires willingness to set targets both for farmers’ incomes and for increased Norwegian food production. The Christian People's Party will require new offensive targets for Norwegian agricultural policy when during this year the Stortinget will discuss the agriculture of the future. Food and energy are fundamental resources in society. All other food production and value creation is based on good access to these two resources. By 2050, food production must be increased by 70 pst. to provide the world's population with enough food, according to the UN. Today, Norway is experiencing a decline in its use. Every year, 30,000 deces go out. The level of income no longer allows operations on many farms. It turns out that the decline in agricultural land has a clear link with low profitability in agriculture, the closure of farms and large-scale land cultivation. Agriculture is largely a matter of using own resources, and it is therefore important that the operational structure follows the property structure as closely as possible so that family use can continue. Nevertheless, agriculture has managed to maintain production, but to a greater extent based on imported inputs. From the year 2000, Norwegian raw materials in power feed have dropped from 67 pst. to 47 pst. today. If these developments do not change, Norwegian security of supply will be significantly weakened. In order to increase Norwegian food production, we need to increase cereal production. Grain production is important for rural agriculture and for a production that uses the whole country and is based on Norwegian resources. If we maintain the same consumption pattern as today, the grain area in Norway needs to be increased by 300,000 deches by 2020. Change our diet so that we eat more pigs, eggs and chicken, the area needs get much bigger. An increasing proportion of food production is concentrated in the best agricultural areas in the country. This is particularly worrying in the three Western states and in Agder. The development of efficiency and new modes of operation are a specific challenge for the labour-intensive livestock population with climatic and soil conditions, land structure and topography in these areas. This threatens the goal of food production across the country. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that a separate action package is needed for grass-based livestock farming in the districts with targeted investment funds to maintain more operational uses. There are few countries in the world that have a lower area of full-grown land per person than Norway has. According to the SSB, 8 130 dekars of cultivated land were redispatched in 2009. The area of full-grown land in Norway is now down to 1.75 dekar per person. Soil degradation is a big problem. Decommissioning also leads to a sharp reduction in the possibility of exploiting available resources in outland areas, as active agriculture is away or reduced to a minimum in some rural areas. This is particularly unfortunate because today we are importing power feed equivalent to 2.5 million decankers of grain land abroad. This means that we base large parts of our agricultural production on the resource base of other countries. The Christian People's Party believes that we need strict soil protection in order to ensure the future generations' possibility of national food supply. A living agriculture is the best Norwegian advertisement. Agriculture and living areas are the key to growth in travel life. Non-residents do not come to look at abandoned uses and re-created roads. Discontinuation of use threatens important national targets for food production across the country. Therefore, we need to provide good framework conditions for small and heavy-duty uses, as well as making it attractive for young people to take over the family farm. We are now waiting for the big message on agricultural policy. A flash message shall provide a description of the status — creating a common sense of reality. It will draw up visions and will like to outline measures. Many important battles will be fought here, and there are good opportunities to point to the main challenges and to document the need for changing framework conditions. The Christian People's Party wants active agriculture in all parts of the country. It is therefore important that farmers receive income growth in line with other groups in society, and that the state has framework conditions that make it attractive to invest and invest in food production in Norway. We need to strengthen farmers' belief that there is a future in Norwegian agriculture. Does the Minister of Agriculture believe that it is essential for Norwegian security of supply that agriculture is based as much as possible on Norwegian resources? Parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, has announced that increasing agricultural production is not a goal for the Workers' Party and that agriculture primarily has a district function. If agriculture is to be redefined as a backdrop for tourism, the Workers' Party must seek support for its agricultural policy at the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party believes that we have an obligation to use agricultural land for food production in a situation where large parts of the world suffer from a global food crisis. Without ambitions for self-sufficiency, agricultural production throughout the country, farmers' incomes and investment opportunities, Norwegian agriculture will quickly become confused and concentrated on the most productive areas in the country. An outline of today's agricultural policy provides unacceptable results for Norway in a short time. The Christian People's Party will increase budgetary transfers, improve investment and welfare systems, strengthen soil protection and predatory protection to ensure food production and live settlements throughout the country. It is now ten years since the last time the Stortinge adopted a big message on agriculture and food policy. The challenges now on the agenda are how the world is going to increase food production by 70 pst. by 2050 due to world population growth, in addition to the challenges of climate change and energy. The question is whether there is a political will to contribute the resources needed at a time when all Western countries, with the exception of Norway, have increasing government debt, large budget deficits and excessive cost growth in the welfare state. There is a need for major political action. How will the Council of State ensure security of supply in the light of the current situation related to the decline in agricultural land and the weak economy of the farmer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e1960	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, points in his interplay to a particular important challenge of agricultural policy today. Food security is a fundamental need in Norway and in other countries around the world. In order for the global food supply system to become more robust, it is essential that the principle that all countries have a responsibility to contribute to food supply for their own population is at the root of policy developments – both nationally and internationally. In Norway, it is important that we use the scarce agricultural land resources we have for food production. In addition, it is only on parts of our agricultural area that climatically facilitates the production of cereals and greenery. Large parts of the area are grasslands that have to be processed through livestock in order to be exploited. An important contribution to ensuring food supply is to continue to facilitate living agriculture throughout the country and to pursue a land policy with restrictive soil protection. Climate change and unstable food markets have made food security a highly topical and increasingly important issue, both nationally and internationally. I agree with Andersen Eide that the decline in the agricultural area in the last few years is a cause for concern. In particular, the decline in the cereal area has an impact on our self-sufficiency. In addition, the increase in yield per deer has stagnated. Although this may have climatic and agronomic causes, it is also a challenge both in policy and in industry to be able to exploit the production potential even better than what is being done today. Both the pressure of expansion in key areas and technological development have a bearing on the decline in cereal areas. Machinery is growing and, in some cases, smaller areas are no longer suitable for grain production — or are not used for grain production. Another explanation is that we have had an increase in grassland in important cereal areas. There has been an intentional policy and development over several years, including: for environmental reasons. More cattle have emerged in the East as a result of it — meat-producing cattle, well to mark. We have a goal of halving the annual degradation of cultivated land. The goal has not been achieved, and we will, in my view, have to strengthen the policy in that area. In many municipalities, agricultural areas need to be given higher priority at the expense of requests for infrastructure and central extensions on agricultural land. In the field of transport policy too, soil protection must be given a higher priority. Representative Andersen Eide explains the negative development of the area, including: low profitability in industry. She might have something right in it. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has supported this government's agricultural policy in providing the industry with the revenue we have already done. An important agricultural policy objective for the red-green government has been to improve the income opportunities of Norwegian food producers. We are going to continue this development. The size has agreed that the objective of national food production is that Norway should be self-sufficient in the products we naturally have in order to produce. It shall apply within the framework of the trade rules in force at all times. We have achieved this goal well in recent years. The market balance will be able to swing something, and it's just for beef we have a certain undercover right now. Sugar, rice, oil, parts of the food grain and a number of fruit and vegetable products must be imported. The concept of self-sufficiency is an estimate of the amount of food we eat produced in Norway. Exports of fish or other products do not affect the degree of self-sufficiency. The degree of self-sufficiency is one of several performance targets that are used, and it says less about our self-sufficiency. The level of self-sufficiency has been declining for many years. The fact that it does not exceed 53 pst. is due to the fact that it is measured on an energy basis and that the import of sugars and fats represents much more in an energy account than for example. in value. Several factors affect Norwegian-produced proportions in feed for domestic animals. Annual fluctuations in the crop level are one important aspect, another being the quality of Norwegian wheat. In addition, for some years we had a very large increase in the consumption of poultry meat and partly pig meat, which are power-feed-based productions. This increase in consumption enabled Norwegian farmers to recover through a rapid and efficient adjustment of production. In any case, in the short term it had to be done through an increase in imported feed. The alternative had been increased imports of pigs and poultry meat. We don't have the same flexibility in cereal production. The potential for increased Norwegian cereal production is limited by the availability of land in the areas of the country suitable for cereal production. In 2009 the proportion of Norwegian cereals in co-feed was affected both by low Norwegian crops in general and by a low proportion of Norwegian cereals with food grain quality. As a result, part of the wheat production that normally goes to food grain was used as a raw material in the feed. Therefore, the proportion of Norwegian cereals in power-feed was paradoxically higher this year than in a long time, although the meat consumption was on top and the crops were poor. Overall, we have had some decline in Norwegian-produced shares in power-feed in the last decade. I agree that agricultural policy must have a significant focus on how to maintain our food supply by securing agricultural land, making effective use of it through increased cereal production in the parts of the country in which the conditions are right, and roughage-based production and exploitation of other land resources. The food situation and agricultural development are important prerequisites for the government to present a major communication on agricultural and food policy. The interpellation of the representative Andersen Eide raises key issues, which her contributions today also do, which is the basis for us wanting to present a new communication on agricultural and food policy now. I ask for an opportunity to come back more thoroughly to these questions when the message has been submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2000	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. My interpellation is about three concerns: security of supply, decline in agricultural land and a weak economy and profitability, and I'll just say a little bit about the last one. In Bondebladet on 14 April, we got an insight into the budget topic, which shows that farmers have an average income of 12 500 kroner lower per year in 2011 than provided for in the agricultural agreement. There are of course different reasons for this decline. In the past, the Christian People's Party has proposed that the government should consider introducing a low-wage supplement to prevent the gap between the income of farmers and other occupational groups from growing further. Despite the closure of many uses, farmers have been able to maintain food production in recent years. But when we look at the current year, the expected increase in production is not being met. You'd rather expect a fall of 0.7 pst. Only power-based production and berries are expected to grow in the current year. Now I hope for concrete answers from the Council of State on whether he sees these challenges. Can any response from income trends be a low-wage supplement? And does the Minister share the concern of the Christian People's Party when food production is going in the wrong direction and being reduced at a time when Norway's population and the world's population are otherwise increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2013	As Andersen Eide's representative underlines, there were three points she focused on in her post and in the interpellation: security of supply, decline in land and a weak economy in the industry. As far as security of supply is concerned, my starting point and my assessment are so that we have a high level of security of supply for the Norwegian people today through the food production we are already producing. Although the number of uses has decreased, we – and actually increase – maintain self-sufficiency and maintain large parts of the areas we use. However, we need to focus on this in the future. It will be one of the issues we are working on in the Storing Message that we will present later. I am more concerned about the decline in the area, which Andersen Eide also stressed is worrying, especially because we are significantly weakening the potential to increase cereal production, which is particularly important for the degree of self-sufficiency. One of the solutions to security of self-sufficiency is to ensure Norwegian cereal production, and, as I underlined in my article, both technological changes, machine use and structural changes in the industry have led to the non-use of part of the land, as well as for example. a transition to a greater degree of grass production in parts of previously used areas for the production of cereals. As Andersen Eide also stresses, the challenges of soil protection have increased. We have a lot of municipalities that have big challenges here, and it's a task for us all to make sure that, through municipal plan decisions, we take more care of the soil, the resource base that we have and need to be able to move on. Then I fully agree with Andersen Eide that the weak economy is a major challenge. It is, however, that this government has significantly improved the incomes of the industry over the last few years, even with the support of the Christian People's Party. The example used of DKK 12500 in reduced income in 2009 is a tax accounting figure, and the tax accounts referred to here are not a good measure of the development over time. One should, in terms of income, see several years together, and then it turns out that there has been a significantly better development in recent years than it was in the period of responsibility of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2028	I agree with the interpellant that food and energy for the world's people are one of the great and most demanding themes of our time. This is also behind the big message about agricultural and food policy that the government is now working on. The interpellation is like this in my view, and today's debate can perhaps be a contribution to the work of the government's message, and thus be useful to everyone. Every country has an obligation to feed its own population with self-produced food as far as possible. And then the possibilities for it are very different. For Norway, we can say that we have a self-sufficiency rate of 50 pst. If we take all of the fish we export, we're a major exporter of food, which also gives us large export incomes. Nutritionally, there is also a lot of talk that maybe we should have a slightly more balanced menu here in Norway between meat and fish. The fact that we're completely marginal up here to the sea in the production of land-based food, with only 3 pst. of our area as a cultivated soil, is in many ways very challenging. Then we have resources in the sea that we can use even better, if necessary a reserve that can make us almost self-sufficient if the situation so permits. But will we? So far we've at least organized our food turnover so that the food goes there someone wants it, where the market demands it. Today's Business of February 11 this year had an interesting chronicle of Kjetil Wiedswang under the heading «Global Mater». Based on that just 12 pst. of the food the world's people eat, cross national borders, list a number of challenges and dilemmas. I'm not going to go so much more into this, but population growth, limited access to arable land, water and energy, climate change and other dilemmas, also of a moral nature, makes it important that each country's own food production is given the highest priority. In addition, however, the proportion of food crossing national borders needs to be significantly increased. I realize that this is a very demanding topic and difficult to solve in a good way in international negotiations, from a Norwegian point of view, but for the people of the world it is probably more important which countries we ally with in the WTO, and what will be the result there, than how we manage to increase our own food production, we who are just going to saturation below 1 percent of the world's people. In this situation, we will take care of and develop our own agriculture. We must then have strong customs protection, but in my view we must also be able to contribute to the development of countries that need to import certain products with which it is important for a developing country to trade, when food is requested in Norway. It is a demanding balance, and it is important that the forthcoming agricultural communication discuss these issues in detail. The national assembly of the Labour Party adopted a very ambitious opinion on Norwegian agriculture a few weeks ago, where the main points were the maintenance of self-sufficiency as the population grew, i.e. increasing food production and improving industry profitability. It was necessary for the lot to get a collective and good, solid statement on that point. In conclusion, I must say that I am pleased that Andersen Eide and the Christian People's Party are now committed to facilitating increased food production. I still have enough to meet farmers who miss the time with Bondevik and the Christian People's Party in government. I therefore see this interpellation as a support for the reverse operation that this government has done, that we are now betting on Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2043	The red-green agricultural policy system has led to a dramatic decline in Norwegian agriculture by halving the number of producers in 20 years, poor income trends in industry, and as many as over 36 000 farms today are empty. Agriculture policy deprives food producers of most of their freedom to do business and the content of their ownership and makes development opportunities scarce. Recruitment to an industry that is so regulated by a comprehensive bureaucracy is, of course, difficult. In order to reverse this persistently negative trend in agriculture, fundamental changes are necessary to make the farmer more control over his own production and to reduce the influence of politicians and bureaucrats. Less agricultural rules and regulations would mean more development and revenue opportunities than the current regulatory framework conditions for business transfers. It will eventually become a freer world trade also for food products, and it is important that we take the time to ensure that Norwegian agriculture has framework conditions adapted to a new trading system. Free trade also in agricultural products will result in increased competition in the Norwegian food market, which will benefit the consumer. It will also involve export opportunities and new market and income opportunities for Norwegian food producers. While the government is most concerned about sticking to an old-fashioned regulatory policy that does not work, the Progress Party believes that we need to seize the opportunities that free trade provides for agriculture. The main agreement for agriculture, concluded between the country and the agricultural organisations, regulates the framework of the annual nutrition agreement for agriculture. The first main agreement for agriculture was concluded in 1950. Today's agreement dates from 1992. Only Norway in the OECD area has such an agreement between the country and trade organisations for agriculture. The agreements regulate inter alia: prices of food and is a regulation of the market. The Progress Party points to the conclusion of the first main agricultural agreement 60 years ago, and it is time to reduce the power of politicians and bureaucrats over the food market, so that each producer has more influence over his own production and property. Over a number of years, the agricultural contract system, with its price and market regulation and related legislation, has led to a very negative development for Norwegian agriculture. For consumers, today's agricultural policy framework means that we have among Europe's highest food prices and poor choice of products compared to our neighbouring country. The costs of the agricultural policy system through large transfers of the State budget also affect consumers through high taxes. Competition is the key prerequisite for a good entrepreneurship environment, and therefore the established mechanisms preventing this need to be phased out, such as the agricultural agreement and the administrative tasks it finances. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals to strengthen the farmer’s freedom of nutrition, such as softening rigid production and market regulation that limits producers’ ability to develop production. The Party considers that freedom of establishment in all productions must be restored and will retain only production restrictions which ensure the environment and good animal protection. As I said, the Progress Party believes that fewer agricultural rules and regulations will mean more development and revenue opportunities than the current regulatory framework conditions provide. It is important that we use the possibilities to ensure Norwegian agriculture framework conditions adapted to a new trading system. Greater cross-border food trade will involve export opportunities and new market and income opportunities for Norwegian food producers. And then we must not forget to look at the fishing industry, which today exports fainting 37 million meals every day to the rest of the world. It is necessary to establish a market-based system of agricultural framework conditions in order to replace the current market regulation system with free competition. It will stimulate a development that results in the well-being of agriculture being similar to that of other traders, and we believe that selective measures with respect to some sectors of agriculture rather than others result in improper use of resources. Reference may be made to the fall in the number of farms used in active production, and we believe that the strict regulation of production and prices of the contract system affects both the individual self-employed and the consumer. If we are to stop the large reduction and decline in Norwegian agriculture, the rest of the Stortinget must follow up the manyproposals of the Progress Party on the deregulation and red tape of the industry’s framework conditions. It is necessary to facilitate those who wish to make their production more market-oriented and will exploit their production potential through a compensation scheme designed to facilitate agricultural conversion during a transitional period. The compensation mechanism shall provide for freedom of production and for reductions in appropriations and this mechanism shall focus on innovation and innovation in agriculture. The combination of targeted conversion aid with the possibility of exploiting farm production capacity will provide a better income base for the industry than the current regulated economy can offer. It will be necessary to implement the repeal of the Sale of Goods Act, the Concession Act and the Animal Concession Act. It is also necessary to review the soil law with a view to modernising and simplifying, inter alia. distance limitation and quota ceilings for dairy co-farms. In order to reverse this persistently negative trend in agriculture, fundamental changes are necessary to enable food producers to control their own production and to reduce the influence of politicians and bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2071	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses. It is so important that it must also be allowed to disagree with part of the premises. One of our premises is that Norway is a marginal country in the world in terms of food production. We will continue to be, and it also has an impact on our security of supply. The level of self-sufficiency has been around 50 p.m., and the Council of State says in its article that there is a level that he expects you to lie on. I think that's right, all in all, because we depend on solidarity with the outside world in terms of food supply and food security. The interpellant says in his speech that some of the disasters that affect the world around us make great demands on all countries. But it also makes great demands on solidarity and not to take all dangers over and then enter into a more protective life. It's true that we're importing cereals and feed to produce food equal to 2.5 million dekars. But it's also true that we're exporting fish for 25 billion. kr, which captures our resources along the coast, not least at the risk it entails – which I know that the Christian People's Party is also concerned about. And even more so, since energy is also mentioned in the interpellation, the export of oil and gas to large parts of the rest of the world, not least Europe, places a heavy hold on areas and on security. It is also important to bring about solidarity with other countries. So the interpellant also starts from the weak profitability of the industry. I fully agree with that. On the other hand, I do not agree that it will be solved by special additions. If you go into the income statistics -- now I understood the government council so that he thought that the equation figures didn't give a good picture of what the state of the agricultural industry is like -- I actually choose to think that the equation figures give a pretty good idea of what it's like in the different industries -- it's a fact that those who are engaged in full-time agriculture in this country have the lowest total income. Those with at least entrepreneurial income as a share of their equations have the highest total income. Then there is something that tells me that those who are able to produce the most food, in terms of self-sufficiency, probably have the worst possibilities. They must have it, because they have the lowest income, and their entrepreneurial income is highest in proportion. So when the interpellant says something like that, that agriculture is confused by the fact that you produce effectively in some areas, I think on the contrary. I think we're increasing our food safety by really producing effectively in the areas that are suitable for it. That view is actually supported by the Council of State, which says that not least technology contributes to this. You can't produce anything anywhere any longer if it's going to be effective, and if it's going to give the profitability you want. Then you have to do it in the areas where you make this pay off. Finally to the decline in area. Yes, it is there, but the efficiency, productivity and results of production are increasing. That's the important thing, and there's still a lot to pick up, I'm absolutely convinced of that. In agriculture, as in all other industries, you can get more out of the possibilities you already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2088	There are important questions the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide addresses in this interview. There are aspects that SV is also very busy about. As the representative Eide points out, we face major challenges when it comes to the global food situation. We are far from reaching the Millennium Goal to halve the number of people who are starving in the world by 2015. This is also a question of distribution and poverty. But there is a broad consensus that there is a need to increase global food production. The FAO Food and Agriculture Organisation assumes that we need to increase food production by 70 pst. by 2050 if we are to avoid poverty and so on. The FAO has also pointed out that this challenge is demanding for all countries, although there are different indications of agricultural production in different countries. Norway must take its share of responsibility for the global food situation. We should maintain and increase the self-sufficiency of agricultural products. If we are to contribute positively to the global food situation, it is important to focus on net self-sufficiency. It doesn't help the global food situation if we produce more meat based on imported feed. It actually seems in the opposite direction. Therefore, it is important that we focus on using national resources as roughage and pasture. If we are to cope, we must take care of and further develop rural agriculture. This is where we have livestock that can take advantage of roughage and pastures. Therefore, it is important to pursue an agricultural policy and to have mechanisms to stimulate the use of pasture land, which is an important national resource. At the same time, it is important that we cultivate cereals where it is appropriate, as set out in the agricultural policy we are currently pursuing, which we call the channelling policy. Without it, we had had less grain production, and the flatlands had uncompetitive animal husbandry other places in the country. If we are to ensure and increase agricultural production, we must keep growing land in claim and not build it or lay it down. We must avoid laying motorways and shopping centres on the best and most productive agricultural land. Municipalities need to be better placed to make long-term land plans that take care of high-quality agricultural land. We're still ignoring the fact that a user uses a bit-by-bit tactics, builds a house here and a house there, and all of a sudden, the whole agricultural area of the area is ruined, and it's being reregulated. If we are to avoid growing land leaving production, we must pursue an agricultural policy that also takes care of small and combined uses. With the topography we have here in the country, there are limits to how far you can structure agriculture before growing land goes out of production. This is why it is important to pursue a policy that also accommodates small and family use. The points raised by the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide are for the key reasons that we cannot leave Norwegian agricultural policy alone to market forces. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party in this way is distancing itself from the liberalist agricultural policy that the Progress Party and the Right have argued for in several things before today. I look forward to a good cooperation with the Christian People's Party in developing the new agricultural message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2109	Let me start by commending the Christian People's Party for addressing this interpellation that gives us the opportunity to debate these important issues. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer he has given. In the Center Party, we believe it is important to see Norwegian food production in an international perspective. One billion of the world's population is starving today, and we are facing a future supply crisis. We also know that the price of raw materials will continue to rise, and that the world's population will increase in the coming years. It is assumed that by 2050 we will be at least nine billion people on earth. This means that we have to more than double the food production during this period in order to feed the world's population. In Norway, too, the population will increase in the coming years. The centre party therefore believes that we need to increase Norwegian food production, based as much on Norwegian resources as possible as a result of this development. It is estimated that the number of inhabitants in Norway will increase to approx. 5.7 million in 2030, i.e. 20 pst. more than today. Greater uncertainty associated with the import of food suggests that we need to increase food safety by increasing the level of self-sufficiency. The drought in Russia, weak crops in Central America, floods in Australia and uncertainty in South America lead to a sharp rise in food prices. Such situations will arise again. Several inhabitants of Norway and increased self-production of food will mean that food production will have to increase significantly nationally. A population increase of 20 pst. by 2030 and an increase in self-production, for example, of 10 percentage points over the same period means that food production has to increase by 40 pst. If we are to achieve such an objective, the development of agriculture needs to change significantly. We believe that all countries have the right and the duty to produce food for their own people. It is therefore necessary to increase Norwegian food production. The aim must be that Norwegian agriculture should meet the demand for goods that are a natural basis for producing nationally, that Norwegian land-based food production is at least increasing as the population grows, and that the level of self-sufficiency in feed and food is increased. Production shall be based, as far as possible, on Norwegian resources — grass and cereals. A varied agricultural and food production across the country requires a continuation of the Norwegian model with a strong cooperative and agricultural contract system. The district profile shall be strengthened by clearer differentiation of the instruments in the context of a national agricultural policy. Import protection is the bottom plan of the Norwegian agricultural model. The Norwegian level of wages and costs, together with a challenging climate and demanding topography, contributes to a higher price of Norwegian agricultural products than in our neighbouring country. It is therefore not possible to conclude new trade agreements which weaken the protection of imports and the framework conditions for national agricultural production. The potential for income and investment in agriculture is essential in order to achieve the objectives of increased food production and value creation. It is therefore necessary to establish a policy to ensure the development of agricultural incomes that reduces the income gap between other groups in society, measured in kronor. Norwegian consumers want Norwegian food and are concerned that the food they eat is safe. There is growing interest in locally produced food, organic products and a desire to eat healthy and nutritious foods. Norwegian plant and animal health is good and must be constantly defended and further developed in order to ensure the production of healthy and safe food in the future. whereas consumers and authorities must be given transparency of pricing and competition in the food market; Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry are interdependent. Deliveries of Norwegian raw materials are essential to ensure the more than 100,000 jobs we have today in agriculture and in the food industry. At the same time, new enterprises and products need to be developed in order to expand the income base of industry and to provide the population with a wider range of goods and services based on agricultural resources. I look forward to more agricultural debates when the new Landfill Communication on Agriculture and Food is now being presented. I also look forward to the Christian People's Party participating actively in that debate. I also think it is good that the Christian People's Party is completely opposed to the policy that the Right Party and the Advance Party have advocated in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2133	I thank you for a good debate with many interesting articles, and I thank you for positive feedback. I would like to give feedback to the representative Arne L. The mound. I just want to remind you that it was Kåre Gjønnes from the Christian People's Party that in its time was the architect behind the agricultural message that has been the basis of the governments that have been in the last eleven years. The Christian People's Party has really been helping to put its mark on agricultural policy that has been leading this country for the last eleven years. So to Svein Flötten: we probably don't have the same sense of solidarity. The representative believes that we should have even more power-feed intensive production in this country, i.e. we should increase pig and poultry production where we serve the most. The area used for the production of electricity should have been used for the production of food in the countries from which the feed comes. Then I hope that the Council of State will look at this debate as an important input – that is what it was supposed to be – to the forthcoming agricultural message. We have also received a report from the Food Chain Committee that shows bias both in terms of power and how much of the income the farmers get in relation to others in the value chain and in the food chain. This is important input that I think the next message has to include. Norwegian agriculture is part of a global industry. In order to maintain food safety, there is no doubt that agriculture must be given an income vent in order to slow down the take-off. The population both here in Norway and in the world is increasing, and farmers produce goods that no one can live without. We should value this in a better way than what we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2146	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the inter-pellation, and I would like to thank the House for a good debate. Of course, I will take with me the recordings that have been made here, in the further work on the message that we are working on, which is to be promoted for the Storting during this session. There has been a lot of talk about security of supply today. I think it's important that we are aware of the slightly complicated contexts we're talking about in terms of cereal and feed policy and security of supply. Food and feed policy is central to the geographical distribution of production, i.e. what we have called channelling policy, it is important for the degree of self-sufficiency, and also because the quantities and prices of feed grain are the basis for the raw material costs of power-feed production and the import demand when meat production increases. Cereal production increased up to the early 1990s, but has then remained fairly stable, with considerable variation from year to year, and we see, if we compare with Sweden and Finland, that the productivity of Norwegian cereals has slowed down. This probably means that we have a slightly greater potential in Norwegian grain production than what has been extracted, with good agronomy, with research etc. With today's varieties we know that 75-80 pst. the needs of cereals in Norway can be met. It is a formidable proportion, and it is a success story without equal in Norwegian agriculture that we have managed to increase that output that way. But it's clear that we're vulnerable to crops. We are vulnerable to weather, and we know that as we increase the proportion of food grain, the proportion of feed grain is also reduced, so that we see this game situation coming up – if we have a good grain year, a high proportion of food grain, we need to import more feed grain. The demand for feed grain depends on the development of livestock production. The use of power has increased by 1 pst. in recent years, both as a result of increased consumption of chicken and pigmeat and increased feed content in milk production, and there has been a need for increased imports of raw materials into feed. Carbohydrates are what we especially produce in Norway, which is a proportion of the total power-feed balance, and here we've been between 70 and 88 pst. in recent years – a relatively high and good proportion. The self-sufficiency rate of goods produced in agriculture has increased from 39 to 50 pst. from 1970 to 2010. The degree of self-sufficiency is particularly high for important Norwegian agricultural productions — meat, milk, etc. – while overall it is lower for the energy-rich productions such as sugar, rice and tropical fruits, and some food grain has to be imported, which is natural with our climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2159	In these words, the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2175	In a chronicle 16 March this year at address.no, doctors at St. Olav's hospital write about the working situation at the hospital. They write: «One doctor must, due to understaffing and consideration of the patients, work from six in the morning to six in the evening without the employer providing for the registration thereof.» They further believe that: «The employer knows very well that work is carried out on a large scale at the hospital in addition to the work schedule. A party sample survey was carried out in 2009 and 2010. Approximately 300 doctors registered together approx. 5,000 hours of overtime per month. Most of these hours were self-imposed by the doctors to complete today's work and are not registered in the employer's own computer system.» This is a situation report from a hospital on working conditions. Health professionals work long shifts, and this also has consequences for patients’ safety. Yes, in fact, several studies confirm this. Long weeks of work increase the risk of health problems, according to a study from the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Toronto. Researchers here investigated how working hours affect health defects, such as stabbing, mismedication, infections and falls among patients. There was a clear correlation between working time over 40 hours a week and negative events and errors. This was a survey of nurses. A neurosurgeon in the Rikshospitalet conducted a literature review of sleep deprivation and the consequences for the work of surgeons in 2004. Unresponsive long guards lead to mistreatment. The health of the surgeons is also affected by mental and physical health and social life. The career of employees can also be damaged if you refuse to work overtime or take extra shifts. Because it can be hard to tell from if you're tired. Among other things, many are temporary employees, or part-time employees with a desire for larger jobs. Fear of not having a permanent job or greater position prevents them from saying no to extra guards and overtime. Working time affects the kind of specialisation, inter alia: Mercenary elects. In particular, surgery is considered to be specialisation with adverse working hours and less time for family and leisure time. In Western countries, there has long been a lack of interest in and weaker recruitment to surgical subjects. In Norway, a decrease in the number of professionals has also been observed since 2005 in general surgery. This shows that long guards weaken the recruitment of the specialties where this is usual. This is what Søreide and Nedrebø write in a chronicle in The Norwegian Medical Association. We have recently discussed in Stortinget proposals for a Health Disaster Commission. The background to this proposal was that when accidents occur in hospitals, what went wrong had to be discovered. Only then, when this is revealed, can we change systems, procedures and procedures, so that the same thing doesn't happen again. And we all know that healthcare is too little learning from its mistakes. The background to the proposal for a accident commission was, among other things: recorded by families who experienced the loss of one of their own due to unfortunate incidents in hospitals. One of these relatives has also made representations to the National Health and Care Plan, which we are dealing with in the Committee these days. Here she shows, among other things: doctors in Norwegian hospitals have so long guards that it can compromise patient safety. I'll quote some of what she's written there: «As a relative, I have discovered that both front and rear guard; responsible superiors and assistants work for 24 hours – active service. At the same time, the President of the Medical Association says that only 19-hour shifts are allowed. Is it such that local negotiations may also allow guards beyond 19 hours?’ And she goes on to say, ‘Even such a long watch, who wants to be operated and treated by a doctor who has been in service for so many hours. Research has also shown that sleep deprivation can lead to reduced performance, impaired judgment and reduced concentration, as if influenced by per mille.’» And she ends by saying, ‘It is incredible that doctors can still be allowed to work in such long shifts.’ She also points out that doctors at Norwegian hospitals are allowed to have bijobb in private businesses alongside their position in public hospitals. In my opinion, this is an important input into the work to strengthen patient safety. The protective provisions for doctors mean that, within the framework of a service plan, up to 19 calculated hours per watch day can be worked. Nor shall any working week exceed 60 hours. These are other occupational groups, such as: pilots and long-distance drivers with more stringent restrictions on working time precisely because of safety conditions. We can read this in a master's edition of Kristin Laugaland. She also conducted a study at the surgical section of Stavanger University Hospital. This study revealed that the practice of the working time arrangements did not always correspond to the lead in the law and contract work. Challenges related to manning and sick leave were highlighted as the reasons why the provisions were largely not complied with. Specially exposed were holiday settlements, where it appeared that the protective provisions were often exceeded. Some of the main arguments for long guards that we hear when this is taken up are that it strengthens continuity, and that important information can be lost in multiple shifts. Laugaland pointed out in his task that there is little research on the relationship between working time and risk in the hospital sector. In the last few months, there has been a focus on the length of shifts for health professionals of private operators operating in hospital homes and in temporary employment agencies. Of course, it is good that this is addressed, but it is equally necessary to look at practices in public hospitals and hospitals. Just in the cold water of what has happened within part of the private employment agencies, we have been able to read in the newspapers about places in public that also violate the rules of the Work Environment Act, and as we can say far on the way, we are doing more irreverently than they should. There is a need to identify the extent of extra shifts and overtime among health professionals, including doctors and nurses, i.e. what, for example: are the real lengths of guards, usually also broken down by different specialities. So my question to the Council of State is what she can do, and will do, to ensure health professionals a good length of work, and thus not least strengthen patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2231	Employees are the health sector’s main resource. In other words, how workers are treated is of great importance to the quality of health services. Good working conditions are important for individual workers, but also important in order to provide good and sound health services in our country. Public health services cannot be closed on weekends or at night. We must therefore ensure that it is possible to combine a job in the health sector with family life and time for leisure and rest. The provisions of the Working Environment Act shall include, inter alia: contribute to ensuring this. It is fixed and the enterprises are to act as other employers. The representative, Laila Bavøy, points out that there is a need to identify the scope of extra shifts among health professionals. Health enterprises have now initiated on their own initiative a review of watches and how the provisions of the Health and Safety at Work Act are being complied with in enterprises. The review includes both own employees, subcontractors’ employees and contracted staff. Preliminary numbers show that it's 0.4 pst. of the guards who do not comply with the rules of the Working Environment Act. The Ministry has asked regional health establishments to report the number of employees who have worked for each health business in excess of 200 hours of overtime last year. For example, I can show that at Health West RHF there were 419 workers, or 1.5 pst. of the workforce, which worked more than 200 hours of overtime per year. The corresponding number for Health North RHF is 2 pst. The Working Environment Act provides for workers to work more than 200 hours in a year if there is agreement between the employer and the employee organisation to do so. In the case of several establishments, such an agreement has been concluded with the organisations on extended access to overtime. The agreement implies that overtime beyond 200 hours will not be contrary to the Working Environment Act. As represented by the representative, Davøy, there is a different burden on different personnel groups in terms of the scope of additional guards. Especially doctors have planned long shifts. The doctors have agreed to exemptions from the working time chapter of the Working Environment Act in their core collective agreements. The Working Environment Act allows trade unions of a certain size to agree on comprehensive exemptions from the provisions of the Working Time Chapter. I would like to stress that breach of the working time provisions of the Working Environment Act is serious. It is important that the employer takes into account the overall burden on the individual employee. This applies to the load per day, but also on a weekly, monthly and annual basis. This follow-up is mainly carried out by local employers, but is also followed up by regional health enterprises. Health enterprises are a large employer — in the number of employees one of Norway’s largest. The individual health undertaking, the regional health establishments and the ministry which owns it are engaged in good and tidy working conditions. In this context, I can mention that Health South-East is in the process of introducing a common electronic resource and work plan system across the whole business group. This will provide health professionals with an even better opportunity to control working time and to comply with the Health and Safety at Work Act. Undertakings must be prepared to cover in the event of sickness or absence, and in the case of a number of undertakings, recruitment centres have also been established to provide for such urgent manning needs. I have asked regional health companies to reduce part-time by 20 p.m. this year at the enterprise meeting, and also to reduce temporary employment. In my view, reducing temporary work and the proportion of part-time work are important for good patient care. It provides stable staff who know the hospital, department and routines, and it provides opportunities to drive skills development. The government strongly focuses on quality and patient safety, both in hospitals and in the municipal health service. The same applies to the need for skills in welfare professions. Therefore, the government has also notified large-scale communications affecting these areas. I think the representative Davøy and I fully agree that we need to ensure a working life in which employees get time for leisure, family and rest. I am absolutely sure this has something to say for the quality of the work a do, and therefore also for the patient treatment – which was also involved in the interpellant. As I said at the outset, I should, among other things, The working time provisions of the Working Environment Act contribute to ensuring this, and I have therefore followed closely the business review of the working time regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2257	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Clearly, there is a lot we agree on. Governments respond mainly to the part of the interpellation that goes on with the workers, but little to the point of patient safety. It may also be because – as I pointed out in my post – we know extremely little about the relationship between working time and risk. I might have thought to ask the Council of State if she could say a little more about it, and if she might think that you could do more research on this. There is a lot of work going on, also related to patient safety, and I think this could be one of the issues related to the fulfillment of that work, namely working time and risk. I fully agree that workers and quality are linked, and it is great that health care companies have started a review themselves. But some of the things I point out – which have also appeared in some studies, and which the doctors at St. Olav's Hospital themselves were particularly concerned about – were that there was a lot of unregistered overtime. You just don't write down, you just keep working. I assume that the registration that healthcare companies are now doing is of what is formally registered. It may be interesting to know if the Council of State knows what it is like to have the unregistered overtime, and whether the Council of State has asked, or might even ask, health firms to also enter this area. So the Council of State says that Health South-East has got a new registration system – I think it is good – and that you have your own recruitment centres. But this requirement to reduce temporary work: well, there's incredibly low staffing in large parts of the health sector, and basically you have to take in temporary workers in case of illness. At least you have to make sure you don't get into an evil circle, with a low crew – you have – and it takes a lot of temporary work. And if you say you're not going to use so many temporary workers, the more of the work will just fall on the permanent employees, who get longer working hours – perhaps with subsequent extra high sick leave. You can easily get into an evil circle. Many of us who have worked in the health sector know this incredibly well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2268	I mentioned in my post that there is a big message about quality and patient safety, and it is clear that these are important issues in this context as well. I would also like to refer to the patient safety campaign. It is clear that having control of overtime use — a breach of the Work Environment Act — is an important part of such a context. Then I would also like to refer to the Health Care Act, because it is very clear on the requirement of soundness. Here also has a doctor of self-responsibility. However, doctors have entered into a central agreement with the Medical Association, which I believe dates from 1996, which provides access to long-term shifts in addition to what is in the Working Environment Act. But they have, as I said, an independent responsibility for good practice under the Health Care Act. Of course, the Health Authority has a responsibility to monitor the proper functioning of the business, but above all I would like to stress that it is also the responsibility of each business operator and business manager to operate the business properly. In the case of the patient safety campaign, it shall take more than three years. Now we've started with some issues that have been important issues to address, and then we have to constantly consider how to move on. I think it is positive that Health South-East is using a new registration system that will provide much better feedback. I would also like to refer to what I mentioned when it was about temporary work and own manning pools that you have in your health care establishments. When it comes to the accident commission, I would say that what the interpellant was about, I don't entirely agree. The reason why we've gone in for this exclamation unit is just to find out what's going on, figure out what's the cause, take action and learn from it. As far as research is concerned, I would say that this is an important topic. It is clear that this is important because we have great ambitions in the healthcare system in Norway that we should have a good offer throughout the country. It is clear that in this context, it may also be important to monitor progress, especially in this area, which is so important for the safety of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2283	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue such as: complements the ongoing debate on tour, weekend work and involuntary part-time. I understand that this interpellation specifically addresses the issue of extra guards and extended guards related to events that may be difficult to predict. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, initially, all the essential temporary needs of sick leave and other absenteeism that need to be seen as probable is a management responsibility to organise, so that there is capacity and flexibility in the business to deal with this within the framework of the work environment law, as well as professional requirements and safety for patients. The main challenge in the topic of the interpellation will therefore, as I see it, be to have enough health professionals with the right skills, skilled trade union leaders and skilled health managers who also cooperate well. However, even when these prerequisites are met, there may exceptionally be no foreseeable situation in which extra-vigilance or extended watch is necessary to ensure the patient’s life and health. It follows from what I would call law-enforcement ethics that you, for example. do not leave a patient in a ventilator who needs continuous monitoring, even if the watch is over, and a competent colleague is not present and ready to take over. But there has to be a distinction here between probable absences and events that can't reasonably be expected. If a department over time has 8 pst. sick leave, it is a management responsibility to have professionals to cover this. The example of sick leave shows how important the working environment and good management are to keep the wheels running in a 24-hour sector such as hospitals. Let me also mention the obvious fact that statutory holidays are also quite predictable. However, hospitals have a close history where these questions were not adequately addressed. As young medical students in the 1980s, we were told by experienced hospital colleagues that they had to walk long and frequent shifts to keep their subject in check. We have minimal knowledge of patient safety from this time on, but it is well known that such organisation hindered equality in professional life and was detrimental to normal family life. Even in the 1990s, I have been on a 24-hour shift in hospital surgery with half or all working days on the following day, sometimes with a few hours of rest at night, but also 30 hours of continuous surgery throughout the time span. All responsible actors today agree that this is a dangerous organisation that increases the risk of errors in assessments and treatment. Patient safety culture in Norway is in rapid progress. Among other things, deviations shall be reported in order to improve organisation and procedures. In this context, it is appropriate and appropriate to notify unregulated long shifts and other compositions of working time which may present a risk to patient safety or to the health of the employee. This is the only way we can get better knowledge of the extent of the matter. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the thousands of staff who are staffing our hospitals, and all other health services, day and night, Christmas Eve, Easter Day and May 17th. The doors are never locked. Our thanks and honor may include: demonstrate that we are applying for knowledge of good health and working conditions in the service, and that we then organise and manage the sector so that patients receive good and safe treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2298	Thank you very much for your interpellant. For a long time, problems in covering shifts in hospitals have been happening again in the hospital structure, and not only there, but that is something we unfortunately see in several arenas in health care. Yes, we might as well have had the same debate ten years ago as today, because nothing has changed particularly within the health professionals' working environment when it comes to stretching the knit in the working time areas. I see that the patient rights law goes ahead of the work environment law, which I understand well. To stand there either as a leader or as an added leader and know that one is missing in the next few hours is tough for all parties. Everyone knows that in order for the game to go up, one has to break a law a lot to deal with another. It is clear that there is someone who tangles this to the fingertips, it is just health professionals – and they provide the maximum. Then I'm pissed off when you get an announcement from Specter-director Bratten that the nurses have to work more and not spend the time on SATS and coffee visits. Here, I found Then I say as another state council has just said – without being so angry: you don't know what you're talking about! If there are any nurses out there who can and will be in SATS or in a café, do as they like! I know they're stretching you as far as possible in the workplace. But of course, it's not good enough when you know that over time it's their health. Employers know this, but they often need to be in a hard corner. As a nurse and a former manager, I know that it is tough and difficult to get a tour to go up with illness and lack of people. Unfortunately, if you want to get the wheels to walk around, the work environment laws are broken. We know that many people want flexible arrangements to make family life go up. One also wants more leisure time to be with the family. In addition, we know that many people will also work part-time, but take extra shifts in between. Although there are also more people who want to work all the time, not all part-time is involuntarily. Yes, I have myself as a leader being right there. I have also taken both one and two extra guards far outside of normal working hours, just to have the department have to have the staff needed for patients to be cared for. That's when you can also know what that does to you, not only as an added person, but also as a person who has a family and who wants to participate there on the same line with others in the same situation. That's when the wench comes. To say yes to various activities in family life is then written off because one does not master, orcs, because one has worked too much overtime. Fortunately, someone says the body stops before it's too late, but unfortunately not in everyone, and that's just not how it should be. Earlier this year, we were able to read various newspaper headlines where violations of the health and care laws were detected. This has also been the subject of debate in various interpellations several times in the United Kingdom. Health South-East has admitted that last year they had 50,000 violations of the regulations on working time. Only at Oslo University Hospital, 26 000 crimes were detected. We've also seen the same thing in municipal services and in the private sector. There must be a goal to overcome, but the challenges are great. So what does one do? The Minister for Health has called on the leaders to give those who attend involuntary part-time, an increase in their turn. The requirement is 20 pst. reduction of involuntary part-time, but is that enough? And what about the work environment law, which needs to be more flexible than it is today. When do you really want to insert what you need, to increase the basic crew? Because that's where the code lies - one must after another add to the bottom. It will ensure and provide more stable working conditions. And the fact that the quality and safety of the treatment of patients are increasing must be the goal. At the same time, I think it'll bring down the sick leave, as it'll make it easier to get a culture where one has more at work at the same time, will trigger a quality factor, which in turn doesn't trigger the inclusion of extra guards and pathogens in the long term. Another moment is to give these fixed settings, and not like now, that one goes from the Victoria to the Victoria. But then the government has to bring in more money that they have to pay for an increase in basic staff in hospitals. And is one willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2320	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a topic that is important and which is also a broad theme, but which needs to be seen in the context of the discussion of this spring related to the Working Environment Act and working conditions in the health sector. It is still a little wonder that I hear the Minister of Health describing the situation of health businesses, for which the Council of State itself is responsible, as regards the words used by the same Council of State and the Council of State's own party regarding the breach of occupational environmental regulations that occurred in, for example. Adecco case. What happened at Adecco's hospital home, both in Oppegård and Oslo, was totally unacceptable, and it also had direct consequences for the company by the two municipalities cancelling the agreement with Adecco. When, on 23 February, the Right of the Questionnaire addressed this matter with the Council of State, and also challenged the Council of State on working time and working time in the public health sector, the Council of State said: ‘What was revealed at the Adecco-powered nursing home in Oslo was that with long tours, double tournaments, unworthy living conditions, non-compliance with tariffs and non-compliance with pay and working conditions, this was put in place. There is something quite different than saying yes to overtime or going a double watch at some point." I think that description, the last sentence there – ‘There’s something quite different than saying yes to overtime or going a double watch’ – is a description of the situation in the public health service in which I think those who work there do not recognize themselves. And I also think that the post to the representative Reiertsen showed in a good way. When, for example, the Council of State in its statement: says that in Health south-east there was 0.4 pst. Of the guards who violated working time regulations, it seems very little. But in health south-east there were 11.5 million guards, then 0.4 pst. So there are 46 000 breaches of the working time regulations. In this way, a driving numerical magic can get the attention away from the area for which you are responsible. I myself, earlier this autumn, have mentioned the relationship with temporary jobs in health care companies. There we also have, in the same way, a government and the Workers' Party which are very strong opponents of temporary positions in all areas other than where they themselves have the actual responsibility. Temporary jobs among doctors in healthcare companies are a serious problem, which in particular leads to the pressure to work longer than what you think is right, simply because you know that if you say no to these shifts, if you say no to standing longer, you are also not taken into account when to fill permanent jobs. These are people who are in temporary jobs until they are both up to 40 years old and would like to be close to 50 years old. Then the Council of State has been very clear on the issue of part-time work and temporary work. But this must also be seen in connection with the tour. If it's not just an operation that doesn't go up. Many of the part-time activities that take place, and not least temporary work, are due to, among other things. the rights that we have granted to workers in the Norwegian community – the possibility of having long leave, the possibility of standing in the position even if you are sick and a number of other schemes that simply require you to have temporary agents or persons in temporary arrangements during the period in which permanent employees are granted their rights. A clear approach that only reduces the use of part-time and reduces the use of temporary workers within such a rigid system will simply have the consequence that those who are at work will have more to do because one will not be able to replace those who are away, with the consequence that the sick leave and the pressure on those who are left will probably only increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2340	Interpellant Laila Davøy is raising an important debate today on the working time of health professionals and how it can affect patient safety at the country’s hospital. Hospital employees treat far more patients than before. Research and development provide more and more opportunities for the treatment of diseases that could not be treated in the past. At the same time, good public health work makes us live longer and longer. The pressure on the health system will increase in the decades to come, as we become fewer and fewer active people to care for an ageing population, with the disease images that naturally report at older age. There is no need to minimize the long-term challenges this could pose, not least for health professionals. The interpellation raises important questions, but there are two issues that I believe are particularly important in the debate: how to ensure patient safety, and how can we get healthcare professionals to work as well as possible within a sound framework and for as long as possible? With this, I believe that our main challenge in health care is to get an involuntary part-time life, so that several parts of the work, and have working time arrangements that allow employees to work longer and longer. The Working Environment Act is quite strict in terms of working time. It is not without reason, as it is a protection law to protect workers, patients, users, customers and society. It is well documented that the danger of making mistakes increases by 50 pst. for more than eight hours of continuous work, and that the risk is doubled at a 12-hour working day. In addition, the loads due to inconvenient working time and to the body's natural daily rhythm are added. Nevertheless, through parts of the media we experience a glorification of extreme tournaments, i.e. working time beyond 10 hours. The enthusiasm is brought forward by both employers’ and right-hand parties. Trade unions with more than 10000 members have the right to set up such tournaments. It's obviously a scheme that works well in general. Over 90 pst. the applications are granted, but there is nevertheless a maximum necessary protection against working hours harmful to health. An adjustment to today's regime may prove appropriate, but a release, which the right-wing parties are calling for, namely that it be agreed locally between the parties, will involve a much tougher pressure on the individual trustees and employees. There is reason to be cautious about liberalising working time regulations, as we do not have sufficient knowledge of what these extreme turns can mean for the health of the individual and the ability to work in the long term. Moreover, civil society parties want to open up 78 hours of working week by liberalising the Labour Environment Act. Such a policy is not based on knowledge, and does not take people's health seriously. Alternative tournaments will play an important role, but it must be based on knowledge and documented needs. I think it is great that the interpellant raises this important debate, but at the same time I wonder that she herself wants to build up the protection that Norwegian workers have. Would it mean better patient safety to release this? There will always be a need for temporary workers in our healthcare system because of different leave arrangements and illnesses. Nevertheless, there is reason to recall the importance of the provisions of the Working Environment Act on permanent employment, so that health professionals have the most predictable working time and the possibility to enter the necessary rest period. Those with low fixed income will be vulnerable to taking adequate guards next to the job rate you have. The use of temporary employment agencies, which we have also seen in the healthcare sector, does not indicate that they play a positive role here. Some employers will avoid the health, environment and safety requirements for the lessees, while it is almost impossible to know if people have worked elsewhere. Various representatives of health employment agencies do not submit trust when promoting double guards. Health companies need to provide tour operators with proper training on HMS, so that we have a working life where people are able to work over time. We need working time arrangements to ensure the safety of good patient treatment, protection provisions in the Work Environment Act that take care of health professionals over time. We can't create a working life that basically works best for people in their 20s, and then for a limited period of time. The flexibility provided by the Working Environment Act is available for use, but its use must be based on research into what is safe for both patients and employees, and not least what we as a society need. Norwegian patients should meet health professionals who are awake and rested at work. There is the certainty that we will receive proper and good patient treatment. As a representative of the movement that fought the normal working day of May 1st during the parole eight hours of work, eight hours of leisure time and eight hours of rest, the interpellant has today demonstrated why it is important to continue fighting for human working time systems that see the whole human being. Then it's a shame for Norwegian workers that we don't play on the same team.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2361	Let me also thank the interpellant for raising an important issue and an important debate. The meeting between – I was saying – the responsibilities of the Labour and Social Committee and the Health and Welfare Committee is also the meeting between working time regulations and patient safety. We have most common interests in that context. I would first of all like to point out that the Right naturally supports the Christian People's Party in that we should monitor the scope of extra guards and real length of working days. It is important, not least in the interests of patient safety. What made me take the floor was the representative Health, who talked about the leadership responsibility to deal with the crew issues, for example. to provide adequate health professionals with the appropriate skills. I can't dare to pull out the municipality that Bent Höie has just talked about, which I myself come from, Oopegård, and which has therefore just had a settlement with Adecco after the irregularities we found at Greverud's hospital. There the municipality has taken over the operation, and there they have now interviewed about 100 candidates after the Adecco scandal. Nurses and caregivers are short-lived in Health-Norway. At all nursing homes and homes in Oppegård, we have difficulty getting qualified staff, we can read in the magazine of the East on 14 April this year. ‘We’re talking about a regular drought and it’s not easy to get the crew in place’. tells the municipal employee the manager of Greverud's hospital home. What does the Council of State do with its executive responsibility for just this, i.e. get enough staff in Health Norway? This is not the municipality of Oppegård alone to experience. Another area of attack for the Council of State may be to improve the situation of extra guards in what can be called unpredictable incidents, extra guards because of illness, and lowering sick leave. And how is this done? By providing room for local solutions adapted to the individual workplace and individual workers, we believe. For example, in the intensive care unit at Oslo University Hospital, sick leave has been halved after switching to voluntary 12.5 hours of sacred services. Such halving dramatically reduces the need for extra guards and double guards. Experience has also been positive with the use of other types of tour. The point is not that we from the Right say that one or the other tour is the best, but that we will leave it up to the individual workplace in collaboration with the employees and local trade unions to find the best solutions, so that you do not end up with double guards and other types of arrangements that are unpredictable and that weaken the protection of the employees or the safety of the patients. If the trade unions believe that a working day of more than 13 hours is hazardous to health, then why have the trade unions approved all these test procedures, as one representative has also said here in the past that they do by almost 90 pst. of the applications? Either it is sound or it is not sound. Right-wing trust that the Labour Inspectorate had not approved e.g. 12 hours of intensive nurses at Oslo University Hospital unless they were on safe ground. Here is the experience that 12 hours of guards work well and do not compromise safety. It is a leadership responsibility, as far as we see it, for the Council of State to turn all the stones and be able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time – both the consideration of the good working environment and a decent working life and the safety of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2390	Thank you so much for a good and interesting debate with many different angles. It is quite right, as the representative Are Health said, that my intention with the interpellation was to see the relationship between working time and unfortunate events. And that's my whole point: we know too little. We actually know very little about where the limit of the long working hours goes over time according to patient safety. We know that there are major deviations in terms of working time regulations. There are many anomalies, and there are many unregistered anomalies. We also know that the doctors have a collective agreement, which was also discussed by the Council of State. I'm not going to call for it to change here and now, but if it turns out through research, if we start more and better research than what we have today, and get better evidence of this context -- is it there, is it not there -- I think it might be interesting to think in that direction as well. We also know that younger doctors, and especially young women who are undergoing medical training today, often want working time regulations different from those that have been up to today, and there are probably changes going on. However, the Council of State also refers to health care requirements and that each employee has a responsibility. Obviously, it has all the health professionals. But we also have a responsibility to have good systems to capture these things, good systems to find the causes of health problems, and we don't have that in our health sector today. It's true that there's an exclamation group set up, but now let me just take a little example. We do not know the reason for the mistakes that are being made. One of those in the family group has also asked some questions about not working hours and fatigue in the job may have a significant impact on patient safety. My whole point is that this is what we want – and I – to figure out. Let me take the meeting that was now in March with the Health Authority and one from the family group. After the call-out group has started working, a case is raised about an unnatural death and is told that the hospital has reported to both the call-out group, the health department, the police and the quality committee. Then it turns out that the Health Authority confirms that this is actually not done. So today's system can be manipulated. Things are stopping. That was just one example. I hope there aren't many of them. My point is our systems. All health professionals are also subject to the good or bad systems we have. It is, in fact, a leadership responsibility, and it is also a responsibility of the Council of State. We don't just have to trust regional health companies, we have to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2406	To comment on Laila Bavøy’s post at the end here: It is clear that it is not just the individual’s responsibility, but it is now the case that health professionals have their own law that imposes health requirements. Therefore, they also have an obligation to comply with that law. I very much agree that it is a management responsibility to ensure that the law is complied with, and that it is sound – that the work is done in such a way that it can be carried out safely even if one has to be prepared and it is often a very special situation to work in the healthcare system. Then it was also said that systems can be manipulated. Yes. We may not be able to regulate ourselves away from all the problems that may arise. The starting point must be that the individual worker and the individual manager actually maintain a high level of soundness and comply with the provisions of the Working Environment Act, because this law should provide the framework for a good working life where there is a balance between work, working time, leisure and family life. I am absolutely sure that when you get a good balance in this, patient safety will also increase. So this has been taken up with vicariates and temporary workers. Quite immediately, when the Adecco case arose, health businesses went completely unsolicited through their practices and did investigations in this – I mentioned it earlier. As far as doctors in educational positions are concerned, I have been concerned that regional health companies should be responsible for making these permanent jobs, because I fully agree that it will provide a much better predictability for the individual. It will provide greater security because you are also subject to all the provisions, the work environment law and other provisions, which will ensure safer working conditions. So I would say it's not numerical magic to say that 46 000 breaches of the Working Environment Act are 0.4 pst. – but it is now once that there are 11.5 million guards. It's not numerical magic, and we definitely have to work to ensure that there is no breach of the Working Environment Act. I also believe that Health South-East has taken responsibility for it, both by recognising that it is, that they should work to get it down, and that they also put in place good systems to register. It's a prerequisite for getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2421	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2435	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2454	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2472	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2490	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2508	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2526	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2534	We're going to vote. Case No. 1, the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on developments in Afghanistan and Norwegian civil and military engagement has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2647	During the debate, Frank Bakke-Jensen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting on the rights of the beneficiaries in the general public, with a view to strengthening private rights and removing the legal ambiguity in this area.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2674	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 and 3, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 1 is included in the vote, while the proposals No. 2 and 3 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the law on concession by acquiring real estate, etc., as soon as possible. [[Concession Act]] Section 4, fourth paragraph, to read: 4. built-up property, not more than 200 dean, where full-grown and surface-grown land is no more than 50 dean. And that Section 5 is amended in line with this.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the limit for when price valuation is required for the sale of concessional agricultural property, to NOK 3 million.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2711	The President has his congratulations to the Left! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2719	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, and from the Right, saying, ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Law No 28 November 2003. 98 on the concession by acquisition of real estate, etc., including the repeal of the concession law § 9(9) 1 on the pricing of concessional agricultural properties.» [[Concession Act]] The President makes it clear that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote. The roll-call boards showed that, in the event of alternative voting between the Committee's suspension and the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right, 62 votes were cast for the vote and 39 votes for the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.44.24]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2733	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2738	The Committee's position was thus adopted by 61 votes to none. The proposal received 40 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2746	During the debate Per Roar Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to improve the operational capacity of the farmers and to strengthen private ownership, and the Government is asked to bring the Grand Duchy to an end to the obligation to live and regulate the prices of agricultural property, to abolish the form and content of land leases, as well as the current ground law ban. In this context, the government is asked to explain the overall social aspects of all the specific regulations on agricultural properties that are both operational and non-residential. ‘... Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2759	The president pointed out that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2776	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Torgeira Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to set up an independent review committee to review support and grant schemes and compensation schemes for the reindeer industry.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2804	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Right Party and the Christian Party, which reads: ‘Document 8:74 S [[2010-2011]] The Progress Party has announced that they want to support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2822	In Case No: No voting theme is available for 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2830	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2838	The vote will take place on the proposals from the Party of Advancement and the Right, presented at the meeting of the European Parliament on 14 April 2011: ‘The government asks the government to propose an amendment to the alcohol law in order to give the municipalities an extended opportunity to set the donation time for alcohol.’ Votering The proposal by the Progress Party and the Right was not accepted by 57 votes to 44. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.48.06]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2855	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party at the meeting of the European Parliament on 14 April 2011: ‘The government is asked to draw up national guidelines on criminality in the event of an infringement of the alcohol law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2875	The vote will take place on the proposals from the Party of Advancement and the Right, presented at the meeting of the European Parliament on 14 April 2011: ‘The government asks the government to file a case for revision of the applicable law so that Sunday-open shops are made possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2894	It is voted on proposals from the Christian People's Party made at the Stortinget meeting on 14 April 2011: ‘The government is asked by the government to prevent the circumvention of the opening time provisions in the Holidays and Holiday Peace Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e2913	There is a vote on the proposal made by the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 14 April 2011: «The government asks the government to promote a bill that removes state restrictions on opening hours in shops and the sale and donation of alcohol and replaces Section 5 of the Holidays and Holiday Peace Act with a provision that allows the municipalities to limit the opening hours locally.» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-26.ana.ud1320e3109	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
