ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e26	The representatives of Karin S. Woldseth, Anna Ljunggren, Ivar Kristiansen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Bendiks H. Arnesen and Rigmor Andersen Eide on leave from 18 May to 20 May, and from representatives Janne Sjelmo Nordås on leave from 19 and 20 May, all to attend the fifth Barent Parliamentary Conference in Luleå from representatives Inbjørg Vogskesen and Torfinn Opheim on leave from 18 May to 20 May, and from the representative Torgeir Träldal on leave from 19 and 20 May, all to participate in the study tour with the Nordic Council of Pskov in Russia. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Nordland County, Jon Øyvind Oddland, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the mandate of the representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås on 19 and 20 May, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the East-Agder counties: Åshild Karoline HauglandFor the Mora and Romesdal counties: Steinar ReitenFor the Nordland counties: Ann-Hege Lervåg and Kari StorstrandFor the Rogaland counties: Laila ThorsenFor the Troms County: Bjørn Inge Mo
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e110	Åshild Karoline Haugland, Steinar Reiten, Laila Thorsen and Bjørn Inge Mo are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e118	Knut Arild Hareide will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e121	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Davøy, Line Henriette Hämdal and the signatures, I am delighted to make suggestions on the certifiers and improve the accessibility of cyclists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e126	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 3, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e232	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Trond Giske, Tora Aasland and Audun Lysbakken will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We will then start with the first main question, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e239	My question goes to the Council of State Lighthouses. The Progress Party has long argued that a choice between immigration and well-being is in reality forced. If immigration is not significantly tightened, we will be forced to reduce welfare. So that's the reality we're facing. Last week, the Council of State Lighthouse and I had a little discussion via NTB where the Council of State actually claims: ‘Even with purely Frp majority on the Grand Duchy, most of those who today migrate to Norway would be able to come.’ This is stated by the Council of State despite the fact that we see clear links between immigration into different European countries and the rules applied. However, the possibility of tackling the welfare challenges we face with comprehensive immigration is therefore being removed. At the same time, the Government has rejected the proposal of the Progress Party to link more closely citizenship and housing requirements to the possibility of having full access to Norwegian welfare goods. Then I ask the question, after the presentation from the Brochmann Committee: What is the government really doing to meet the extensive immigration that comes to Norway? The backlight has pointed to labour market measures, language training and gender equality — in and on good actions, but it is only more of the same age. What is the government really going to do? Is there anything else behind this? When you do not want to reduce immigration, will you not make demands for citizenship, is it not really a governance against winding up/reducing welfare systems for all people in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e253	I am very pleased that the representative Amundsen raised this question and also quoted me from NTB. I would like more of that practice on the part of the Progress Party. It is an interesting sight to see how the Progress Party has used its national meeting to focus on two things: immigration is going down, and social security exports from Norway are going to end. At the same time, the party, as I pointed out in the interview with NTB, has supported the main political approach that leads us to have large immigration into Norway, and that we have some social security exports, namely the EEA Agreement, which the Progress Party has been hot and enthusiastically defending ever since it arrived. So seven out of ten immigrants to Norway today come from Europe. Of the others, the largest group are family immigrants, people who sometimes come to Norway on family reunification with a refugee, but more often to marry a Norwegian citizen or a person who has previously stayed in Norway. As far as I know, the Progress Party has also not proposed to prohibit the Nordics from marrying foreigners. That is why I have assumed that a large part of these immigrants will also come to Norway even with purely progressing party numbers. This means that the vast majority of immigrants to Norway will still be here, even though Per-Willy Amundsen was able to dictate immigration policy alone. Whether there's one in ten or two of ten immigrants Amundsen could make sure that they didn't come to the country, is a little unclear to me, but the point is the same: the vast majority of immigrants will come here, people will cross the borders in the future as well. Then we have to stop having a debate on whether or not to have immigration, when even Amundsen is a hot supporter of most immigrants coming, and rather discuss how we get an effective integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e264	I think the Council of State Lighthouse is doing a little serious oversimplification when you don't distinguish between different immigrant groups, as I realized that the Brochmann Committee actually does. A distinction is made between what is far more profitable immigration, labour immigration from the EU zone, and non-Western immigration, where profitability is highly questionable – obviously not profitable in the long term. It's just to refer to graphs that are used in the Brochmann Committee's report, where you can see that Denmark, through, among other things. a stricter family immigration policy, capable of reducing immigration to one third of what we have to Norway per capita. It says a lot about the space for action you have in each country. My question to the Lighthouse is, because here you get a little away: is it not that non-Western immigration is far less profitable than the immigration we have from European countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e273	I understand that it's a little confusing for the Progress Party to be accused of being for immigration instead of being against immigration, and after we've got these clarifications, I'm going to promise to stop accusing the Progress Party of being against when you're actually for most of the immigrants who come to Norway. I would also like the representative Amundsen to take time with the position of the Brochmann Committee, for one of the interesting things the Brochmann Committee points out, is that if we have a sustainability problem in the welfare state related to immigration, it is not just about the so-called non-Western immigration, because it is so limited. We'll get those results, not least if it turns out that many EEA immigrants, many migrant workers who come to Norway, end up out of work, but remain in Norway. This means that the sustainability challenges consist of the immigration policy of the Progress Party. The question then is: what integration policy do we pursue, which ensures that as much work as possible is in progress, that women also have their potential used, and that we fight discrimination in Norwegian working life? That's what we should use the cancers from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e282	Four follow-up questions have been asked and are given an opportunity to do so – first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e285	We can at least agree that part of the government's integration policy has failed, and part of the issues raised by the Brochmann Committee is something the Progress Party has repeatedly tried to say without hearing. State Council Lightbakken is not only Minister of Integration, he is also Minister of Family Affairs. He is responsible for the cash support, and the cash support with this government has been reduced in recent years. It's made fewer families use it, which is very bad because some families then lose this flexibility. The Brochmann Committee proposes to reduce cash support because it prevents integration. My question to the Council of State will then be whether he believes it is right that small children's families should lose the flexibility to have freedom of choice and use the cash support – if they should lose it only because this government's integration policy has failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e294	I record that the Progress Party at its national meeting said that Norway had now become the whole ‘social office of the world’. It is an image that is, to put it mildly, wrong because most of the social security exports are again linked to the EEA Agreement and the EEA area, for which the Progress Party is. Thus, the Progress Party is both too large for immigration and for quite significant social security exports. Interestingly, the party argues at the same time to increase the performance we see there is a significant increase in exports of, for example. the cash support, or child benefit, that the representative Horne recently criticized me for not increasing. That also means that the policy of the Progress Party is not just to have social security exports, but to increase the amounts exported. As far as cash support is concerned, my answer to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, namely that the government should abolish the two-year-old scheme and develop a one-year-old scheme, and that would be good, both for equality and integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e303	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e306	It is a pleasure that the Brochmann Committee has now presented its position. After all, we have waited a long time for it, we who are working on integration policy and immigration policy. Now we just have to deal with the Stortinget introduction system and the extension of the number of hours of language training etc. The light slide lies on there, I kept saying, a good Erna Solberg line, namely to bet on language and competence as an important factor. But one challenge we have, which is then a little bit opposed to what Per-Willy Amundsen addresses, is that we have a so-called specialist quota in Norway of 5,000. In recent years, no more than 1700 highly competent immigrants have arrived each year from third countries to Norway. What will the government do to increase this share? It is not a question of where the immigrant comes from, but it is a question of what competence he has and what kind of labour he can bring with him. Today, we experience that it is very difficult for specialists to come to Norway. They face many bureaucratic obstacles, etc. What will the government do to follow it up, so that we get more highly competent immigrants from third countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e312	This is an important question. I also record the colossal distance between the Right and the party's possible future partners in these questions, but it gets the right side to settle between them. It is obvious that in the future we will need labour immigration to meet the labour needs of Norway, both in the case of specialists, and in the case of other important tasks to be done, both in the public and private sectors. Then there is a very relevant question asked by the representative of Greece. As you know, I am not in the government responsible for immigration, but it is an important question to discuss how we can facilitate access for specialists to Norwegian employment. Now it is probably also true that we have free movement between EEA countries, which means that specialists come from outside the EEA territory to a lesser extent – without that means that there will be no useful foreign labour to Norwegian... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e319	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e322	The Brochmann Committee underlines: «The combination of an ageing population and low employment in significant population groups may challenge the sustainability of the welfare model in the long term.» In other words, if not immigrants come to work to a greater extent than today, the Norwegian welfare model will have a financing problem. In large terms, the Council of State has called for the removal of cash support to be an instrument to help a group of women with a minority background to find work outside the home. I wonder: do you really believe that by removing the cash support, the women involved will automatically find work? Do you really think this is about a kick in the back and about forcing people almost out of trouble? Is it no longer about creating security, learning the language, having good guides who can explain and find out what competence each individual has, and is it not also much about the need for working life to open up to the use of these resources? I just wonder: does the Council of State have any other and more accurate proposals that help immigrants to be included in the labour market than cut in cash support? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e334	Then the word goes to the councillor Audun Lysbakken, who has a speaking time of up to 1 minute. Councillor Lightbakken, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e337	It is true that the Brochmann Committee has a very strong focus on work. I feel that what the committee has provided in its position is a clear encouragement to the policy of integration that the government is pursuing today, with work, language and equality as a keynote, but also with good suggestions on how we can move forward in different areas. One of the proposals for the sample is to abolish the cash support within three years. This is because cash support has a double negative impact on integration. First, it pays the women that we would like to see work, to be at home, and second, it connects a public benefit to the fact that children, perhaps the children who most need to get into kindergarten early, should not be in kindergarten. Therefore, the cash support is so negative. Then, of course, a reduction in cash support must be combined with measures that make it easier for these women to get into work. The new chance programme is one example of what we put in there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e342	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e345	I intend to follow up both Horne and Helleland, because what has come into play in connection with the position of the Brochmann Committee is a debate on whether we are about to wind up the EEA Agreement, sign us out of Schengen and conclude all the international agreements we have. Therefore, I would like to follow up with a question to the Minister of Industry about just that: How will it affect Norwegian business if we today withdraw from all the international agreements we have, and enter into and make special agreements for Norway with regard to workers and access to labour, if we now ensure that it becomes even more difficult to employ international labour force in Norwegian industry and Norwegian business? I have to say that I was also a little frightened by the NHO chronicle in today's business life, which almost makes it seem that Norwegian business life is hampered by labour immigration. We might think the opposite, and it would be interesting to hear what the Minister of Industry thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e350	Firstly, we need foreign labour in Norway. We need both specialised labour, and we need a lot of labour. Norway had simply not gone about without that labour force. We had big financial problems, so we're going to be happy for all the foreigners who come to Norway and want to work here. At the same time, we know that some welfare schemes are better in Norway than in other countries, and it goes without saying that we cannot finance through the Norwegian state budget welfare schemes that are widely open to people across Europe to participate in them, without being somehow connected to Norway. It forces a debate on the arrangement of welfare systems, that we link them to participation in the labour market in Norway, link them to a place of residence in Norway, set them up so that there are no serious gaps in those welfare systems. We have organized our welfare society differently from many others. We want to continue that, but then we also need to adapt those arrangements to an open labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e355	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e358	My main question goes to Councillor Lysbakken. I'll keep going where we left off. The Brochmann committee submitted its report, and that's interesting reading. The report supports the Right-wing policy on both well-being, immigration and integration. We have two major challenges in Norway. One is that we don't get enough highly skilled labour for the country. The second is that too many immigrants end up unemployed. It is a crossroads that of the total immigration into Europe, there is 5 pst. who have higher education, while in the United States, which also receives a number of immigrants each year, is 50pst. higher education. It's a pretty big gap. So it's important when the Brochmann Committee takes this into account that we have a sustainable welfare model, and that we have to be able to continue the high proportion of value-creating citizens, and to ensure that those who are actually at work do not become dependent on sustainable government grants. Then we have to take over the experience we had during the previous wave of labour immigration in the 1970s, which the Brochmann Committee also points out. Many of them got into work, but many fell out of work quickly and have been recipients of social benefits after that. So we need skills. I mentioned in the previous article that we only accept 1 700 specialists. We have a quota of 5,000. So we're not going to be able to attract those that we really need. But it's true, as the Council of State says, that 80 pst. by immigrants to Norway come either as work immigrants or as family reunions. So it's under 20 pst. who come as asylum seekers and refugees. What then becomes the question is: How can we better provide highly skilled labour for Norway, and what will the Council of State do in this area? The second main question is: why is it that when we get EEA citizens here to the country that comes to work, do a good job and lose the job because of business cycles, for example. Polish construction workers, don't they have Norwegian training requirements while they're unemployed? On the contrary, they may lose their social security if they attend Norwegian courses. What will the Council of State do to fix this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e371	It is true that all the parties of the Storting have pressed the Brochmann Committee to their breasts. With the exception that I explained instead, namely that I think the Progress Party has little reason for that, I think all parties can find both things that they have suggested themselves, are strong for, and certainly also some things that different parties are against. It's worth mentioning, for example. that the Brochmann Committee makes very clear recommendations regarding the regulation of working life, which goes in a different direction from the one on the right of the day, with the decoration of the work environment law, for example. The question of highly skilled labour I came in instead. It is difficult for me to explain it in detail, as it is the responsibility of the other Council of State. I can only repeat that it is an important goal for the government to facilitate the access of Norwegian business to the specialists you need from abroad. As far as Norwegian training is concerned, it is an important question, and it is one of the challenges that the Brochmann Committee is giving us. These include: one of them in the sample related to questions as to whether EEA immigrants should be entitled to free Norwegian training. Immigrants had a right to 250 hours of free Norwegian training in the past. It was removed by the government put in the right, but I am absolutely open to discuss with the Right whether we should strengthen the rights of workers again. There may be good reasons for this, because we are just seeing that more and more people are staying in Norway longer than we had foreseen, and that we have to expect that we will have a permanent population of origin in Eastern Europe that we also need to have an integration policy towards, perhaps more than the Norwegian policy has taken on to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e383	It is possible that there is a misunderstanding in relation to what I said, but it is not that the Right wants to facilitate that all EEA immigrants who come here as work immigrants will receive free Norwegian training from day one. It is a responsibility of the employer to have them be able to participate in Norwegian employment, and they come here because they have a job. But what is the challenge, and which the Council of State should be able to answer – for now we have addressed this in an interpellation here in the United Kingdom with the Minister of Labour, and we have brought it on the field several times – is the fact that when you become unemployed, let's say you are Polish or Lithuanian construction workers, you will lose your social security if you volunteer to attend Norwegian courses. There are a few exceptions in Oslo and Akershus, but in the rest of the country this is a problem. Then we believe that for society it will be a good investment to give these opportunities to improve in Norwegian, so that they can get back into work more easily. This is something we don't have to wait for the Brochmann committee with, this is something the government could put in place immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e390	It is true that there are some welfare benefits that are linked to different activity obligations and that Norwegian training is not currently included as an activity. There are also some other benefits. I'm going through the benefits that I'm responsible for, just to see if it's the kind of problem that prevents what we want, that's that immigrants who are outside the workplace can use their powers to qualify as much as possible, and the most important qualification is Norwegian. Everything starts with Norwegian. Without good Norwegian knowledge, the labour market is weak. The Minister of Labour is working on the issue of day-to-day pay. There's a problem the government is concerned about. I would also like to mention that an important challenge, not least related to the EEA immigrants, is to facilitate more Norwegian training in the workplace. This is what we are in a dialogue with both employers' organisations and the trade union movement to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e397	Four follow-up questions will be raised. The first follow-up question is from the Per-Christian Foss representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e400	Let me compliment the Council of State Lighthouse with an intense and good defence for the EEA Agreement. Something happens when you get into government, and at least in coalitions. But I'm a little disappointed in one point. The Council of State is responsible for the integration policy. One of the biggest integration problems is that we get EEA citizens here to the country that we really appreciate, first of all, and that in its time saved us through the big building tree. I'm sure the Council of State will agree. But now some of them are unannounced. You would think that the government is doing what it can to integrate these into the world of work. Three years ago, the government wrote a big message saying that it should be considered to provide a general offer for immigrants and their family members on language training. So three years ago, this Stortinget passed. The grandma said yes, fine. Now it's time. So we do not get a single concrete response from the government, either from this Council of State, which is responsible for integration policy, or from the Minister of Labour, on what they will do for Polish migrant workers who are unemployed and who need language training.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e407	SV's criticism of the EEA Agreement has never been about human rights and the possibility of moving across borders. We've always been for that, and that's why it's with warmth I defend the possibility to those who are against it. The specific question of daily allowances is the Minister of Labour who can explain in detail, because the Minister of Labour has an overview of where that process stands. But I repeat what I said instead, that we are very conscious of the challenges associated with activities that we want immigrants to participate in, not always go into that basis of what is recognised as an activity in some welfare benefits, and we look at that. In addition, there is too little opportunity for many to combine Norwegian training with both regular work and different practices today. I believe that this is both a challenge in the labour market as a whole and also in the device of the introduction programme, on which we are now going to work and change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e414	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e417	I register that State Council Lighthouse would like to talk about the EEA, would like to talk about labour immigration. The Progress Party is very clear that we should find ways of demarcating rights for citizens outside Norway within the EEA zone, for example. in the case of residence, because this is to be sustainable in the long term. Secondly, when you read the position of the Brochmann Committee, it is reasonably clear that there is a major and significant difference between labour immigration from Europe and immigration from the non-Western world, especially from Muslim countries, where it is quite clear that the migration we experience is unprofitable for Norwegian society in the long term. Can the Council of State make a clear decision on this? Does he dare to do so and admit that the disadvantages and challenges we face in non-Western immigration are one of a completely different nature and calibre than European immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e424	The Progress Party has always been very clear on one thing, and that is its enthusiastic support for the EEA Agreement. That's why what I'm pointing out is double morality in presenting to the Norwegian people a picture that the party is against what you've always been for. The Progress Party must end if the Progress Party is to be taken seriously on these issues. So it's not right that the Brochmann committee doesn't say that the sustainability challenge concerns immigration as a whole. Then it makes no sense, I mean, to divide each individual immigrant into unprofitable or profitable. Of course, there are some groups in which we never take the calculator out when we decide whether to accept or not: refugees who flee from distress and persecution, and whom we have a moral responsibility to accept. Others we accept precisely because it is profitable for Norwegian society, among other things. non-Western specialists. The challenge for the Norwegian welfare system is whether we succeed in getting people to work or not, Western and non-Western. It is the focus of the government's integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e435	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e438	The Brochmann report also refers to an analysis that shows that having a migrant background reduces the likelihood of having an interview both in the private and public sectors. Fafo and the Institute for Societal Research and the University of Oslo are now working on a research project to provide new knowledge on discrimination mechanisms in the Norwegian labour market. Similar studies in some OECD countries have shown that on average one in three job applications from immigrants are rejected because the person has a migrant background. Under the Discrimination Act, there is not only a passive obligation not to discriminate. It is also an obligation to work actively for non-discrimination and equal opportunities. It has almost been used as a mantra, at least from the largest government party, this phrase "Do your duty, demand your right". I think most people will agree that this is the way it should be. But it is a cross of thought that a large part of people with a migrant background do not have the opportunity to do their duty. What can the Council of States do for... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e449	Yeah, it's a cross of thought. I am concerned that we need to have three issues on the agenda if we are to solve the challenges of getting the most of the immigrant population into work. One is about qualification. For example: The groups that come as refugees to Norway today are a large group coming from countries with corrupted education systems, many of which have little opportunity to cope with Norwegian employment. Then qualification is a good introduction program. The type of action is crucial. We also need to look at some attitudes in some of the minority settings related, for example. to women and work, which needs to be changed, because we need women in the immigrant population to participate in work. Then we must be concerned with what the representative is dealing with, namely discrimination. That's why I have, among other things, have just been to Sarpsborg and have taken the initiative in organising an interview with which municipalities can join, calling qualified immigrants for an interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e461	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e464	The council is right in saying that there are a lot of people who press the Brochmann selection to their breasts, and we're probably also reading the setting a little different. But as we have read it, challenges in welfare schemes have been linked to many unskilled people, to those who came in the 1970s and had two or three poorly paid jobs, then to get into disability, which can also be explained in many other ways. Since 2004, Poland has been the large immigrant group. The sample admits that there are only guesses when you're guessing that that group will have a similar development to the group that came in the 1970s. So my question to the Council of State is, when you have so little facts to deal with for that assumption, aren't you a little afraid that it's going to be a maritime prophecy? And isn't there a big difference between a group that's unskilled, versus the many skilled craftsmen and professionals we've got from our neighboring countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e473	It is clear that all projections of the type made by the Statistical Office in this context are uncertain. So here you've tried to make a picture of the evolution up to 2100, and that's a long time. There are many periods of magnification up to that. I still believe that the work of the sample can give us important insights into what challenges we need to solve in the future, and that's what I think the sample has given us a good play on. All of us who are for the multicultural society, which is for immigration, should use it just for that. The committee has not recommended any less immigration or dramatic transformation of our welfare model or integration policy, but they have given us concrete advice on how to facilitate, among other things. increased participation by more than one professional. Then we see that in the case of work immigrants from Eastern Europe, among other things, it is. several persons who bring with them the spouse. There are more people who are out of work, and there is a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e482	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e485	The question goes to the Minister for the Child. Getting a kid into the family can, as you know, turn down on the everyday life of most couples. Getting a disabled youth can turn down even more on the everyday life of a family. Therefore, it is also essential that we as a society support the families and parents facing that kind of challenge. It's the key to creating an inclusive society. Nor does it become less important at a time when technology gives us room for early identification of our properties. What about us? is just such an offer that is an important part of the support that we as a society build around the families that get disabled children. What about us? is a national offer of a life course for couples who have just received disabled children. In its draft budget for the autumn, the government cut the aid for these offers. Government parties cut through their comments and concluded that this offer to these families should not be made worse in 2011. However, cuts in these rates are now reported. You go from weekend courses to evening courses to save money, and it obviously gives you poorer quality to parents who need a break from everyday life to work with their lives. So the question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State clean up and ensure that these families receive an equally good offer in 2011, and will he ensure that support for families with disabled children is strengthened and not weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e498	We made changes in the financing of what about us? because we thought it was appropriate to organise work in some other way, and that we should be able to offer equally good courses and a sound and good approach for the target group also with the budgets we provided. And I'll basically believe that the Storting is concerned that we're going to spend the money the Storing grants, in the most accurate and efficient way possible. So it's very important for us to have a good follow-up and a good offer to parents with disabled children. It is both about the wide range of welfare services aimed at children and about making the facilities more accessible to these families in a consistent way. It's about follow-up around the challenges families can face in that situation. Then these courses have been a help for many, and that's why we have given money to keep the courses going and the courses are going to pass. I am not familiar with the reports that the representative here refers to, so I will not initially go well for a description that the quality of the course plan has fallen. But this is, of course, something we're following, and we're going to evaluate both what appropriations and what organization we need around What about us? in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e507	I am pleased that the Council of State has a broad focus in various ways that the auxiliaries meet families with disabled children. Now the party of the Council of State has a fine slogan – «Various people. Equal opportunities’ – and I hope that the Council of State will take seriously the very clear feedback from all the families who report that these courses have been absolutely essential in order for them to cope with their new everyday life. The result of the leaders who are now sent out from Bufdir is that they are adding evening courses instead of weekend courses. I am asking the Council of State to confirm that he agrees that an evening course for a life course is a much worse offer than getting away and living together a weekend somewhere else to work with the community. And will the Council of State be sure that the comments of the Storting are actually followed up in the budgetary procedure and that the offer will be equally good?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e514	Comments from Stortinget shall, of course, be followed up. But as the representative puts it, one would think that the government had laid down What about us? or said we don't need What about us? The government has, on the contrary, said that what about us? is a good and important offer to these parents, and we want it to continue. That's why we're giving money to keep it going, and I'm going to stand by it in the future as well. So the question is, what is the most appropriate organization? It's not given, I think, that evening courses are more suitable than weekend courses. I'll think it varies very much for different families. But of course, I will also look at the response to the arrangement that is now being offered to people in the context of budgetary work and the further follow-up of this. Now we're going to get reactions from the participants, and we're going to look at the extent of the participation, and we're going to review continuously how what about us? shall be organised in the future in order to provide these parents with the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e521	Three follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e524	Many state councils have made it a habit in this room to refer to the previous government. That should perhaps have been done in this matter too, because it was the previous government that really got the momentum on the life initiative, both in terms of the offer of a good life!, which is for more ordinary families, and what about us? This government now proposed in Stortinget a cut of 63 pst. What about us? and good fellowship! according to a letter I stand with here from Bufdir. And in order to solve the problem of not cutting What about us?, a letter is now sent out to all the municipalities to remove all the coordinator positions that were in order to make a good life course. They also say that we now have strong research evidence that this works, and that this is an important course. Therefore, it is with great amazement we see that in this field this government wants to save. Does the Council of State see that he's saving up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e531	We now have some years of experience with the courses, and we see that they work. But that also means that with the experience we have in organizing this, we think it's possible to do it in a better way than before, a more effective way than before, through the conversions that we've done. And there can be no goal in itself for the Christian People's Party to spend as much money as possible on the courses. The goal must be that the courses are as good as they need to be in order for these parents to be able to get the help they need for, for example. the provision of a disabled child shall not interfere with life. That is the political objective, and the political objective is behind us. We haven't completed these courses; we're continuing the courses, we're spending money on the courses, and we're going to continue doing it because we think it makes sense. The Christian People's Party is now talking as if we had decided to shut down the courses. We don't have that, but we think we've found a more appropriate way to organize them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e537	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e540	It is now in the real world that the government has cut this offer for parents who have disabled children. It might look like there's a pattern in this, because the government hasn't done what they're supposed to do for parents who have disabled children. They have also not agreed to attach the right to BPA to the parents who need it. The council is standing here and talking very carefully about that we need an auxiliaries to be present for these families, and tonight we can see in an entry on TV 2 that helps you that there are parents who do not get the help they need for their children. Then it's cut in the life courses. If there are some families who really need a life course, there are families who have children with disabilities. It's a everyday life that no one can manage to get into, and it's hard. They have a process of Nav that can be very difficult. Does the Council of State think that Nav has now become so good that these parents do not need public assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e549	We now have a debate about the abolition of a course that the government has not proposed to abolish. It may be impossible, then, that the measure of whether we have a good life course or not is how many dollars are granted. The goal must be if many enough parents are given a course that is good enough. If it turns out that parents are not offered a course they should have, if it turns out that the quality of the courses goes down, then of course we have to intervene. But it's a conversion that we decided for the current year, which will take some time before we see the result of. It is my clear intention that we should continue to have a life course, so we have granted money for a life course, and we are going to grant money for a life course in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e554	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e557	I fully agree with the Council of State that the important thing is what you get. This is not only the course that was taken here, it is the overall assistance that couples with disabled children receive. I heard one of the previous answers that the Council of State was concerned with just that whole thing. My question is, what can you do to make that whole thing better, to make it better? That's how Bufdir is effective authority. It's a government agency. We often talk about community offers. Is it possible to improve coordination, for example, or is coordination satisfactory in that picture? The right has been concerned that the municipalities should have a full responsibility here, and we believe that this is an argument for such a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e564	This is the important question, and I think we have a situation for many municipalities today where different services are unable to communicate well enough, and where too many families have to go to different offices and meet different case handlers, and experience that different parts of the public service are talking separately. It is to add unnecessary burdens to an already demanding situation for these families. Worst of all, we get families who experience that they are throwing balls between different parts of the apparatus that would help them. That's why we've sat down and got an attitude from the Flatø Committee, which has just gone through how the public meets families, children and young people in difficult situations, and gave us some recommendations that we're now working on following up. So it's absolutely true that we also have challenges on the state side, and that goes into the discussion about the organisation of the children's, youth and family area in the state in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e571	Let's go to the next main question. The President hopes that we will raise another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e574	My question goes to the State Council of Aasland. When we discuss real and technology competence in this room, there is a strong consensus that this competence is fundamental to future Norwegian value creation and Norwegian well-being. The economy is screaming for more employees with technical and real skills, who are not only to replace those approaching retirement but who are also to ensure growth in a modern Norwegian business and respond to the energy and environmental challenges facing Norway. In order to respond to this challenge, the Stortinget has, over the years, allocated several tens of millions of dollars to get more high school students to take mathematics and physics, thus qualifying as applicants for real and technology. The strategy has to a certain extent succeeded – from this year until last year the search for real science has increased by 10 pst. There is also an increase in technology, especially in the five-year civil engineering programmes. There are 2,2 applicants nationally per place for civil engineering training, and a total of 2,8 for maritime education. In all major universities, there are more than two applicants per job but also many subjects with six to seven applicants. The EU has understood this. From 2000 to 2008, the number of study places in these subjects has increased by 37 pst. In Norway, the figure is less than a third, just 11 pst. The result is, for example: President Marianne Harg of Tekna points out that another 650 qualified applicants in 2011 will have to choose other studies. Now we've been talking about association with the world of work quite a few times today, and this will be students taking a course that will give less connection to the world of work than technology education will do. Would it not make sense in this situation to increase the number of places of study in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e585	Of course, this Council of State and the Government are working on increasing the number of places of study. It is preferably something that happens in the annual budgets, so I have to get back to the representative and the Stortinget with it when the 2012 budget is presented. But I fully agree with Mr Lien that we need real-time competence. I think some of the explanation that so few people choose is that you don't have a positive relationship with mathematics and science as early as possible. That's why the government, through its report on high school, has also put great emphasis on the fact that it's going to be a positive thing to read mathematics. Unfortunately, there's a little bit too many people who think of it as negative. So you have to start early. That's the first one. The second is that there are happy applicants this year, not least in the longer real-time studies, as the representative also points out. I'm not going to do the math that Tekna has presented in different contexts, but I'm just going to stress that we've increased the number of places for real science and technology. When there has been an increase in places of study, this is one of the three areas that have been prioritised alongside more teachers, more nurses and more health workers. So here the government is doing a job, while we're trying to motivate more people to search these places. Then we can discuss what's the right number, how big the bet is, but I'm going to argue that this is high on the government's agenda. We're busy getting this done, and we're also dedicated to making sure that there's enough room for those who are competent in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e596	I am pleased that the Council of State is concerned about the motivation of the students. It could be tempting to ask if the Council of State believes that motivation is increasing or decreasing by not getting a place to study half of those qualified. I want to quote from the Education Line, St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, on the subject of labour relations, because we know that realists and technologists have a very strong connection. It says: ‘The Education.no website is being developed as a common portal for education, profession and career. The portal shall, through the systematic use of existing data and statistics, present professional opportunities, expected earnings, unemployment and other relevant statistics for different education activities.’;» I can't see the traces of this work. At least they are not available on the website education.no. This is also an action that will strengthen recruitment for the real subjects. When will the Council of State take this into account and ensure that students are informed about how it goes with those taking the different courses when they are going to go out to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e606	We keep up-to-date information on the possibilities available for the various real-time studies, and I would like to emphasise again that there is a happy increase in the real-time studies – at almost 9 pst. Here, 3100 first-choice applicants are registered for about 2,400 places of study, i.e. 1.3 applicants per study place. There is also a slight increase in technology and engineering, even though it should have been much greater after the representative Liens and also my opinion. But here there are also many other ways to go. It is possible to collect all the information in one location, but information on the Y-route, localisation, three-term studies, etc. is available. both at the Ministry of Knowledge and in the parts of the school system that are on the Y-way, e.g. in the professional sector. We just have to work on improving even more to get a complete set of information about this, but it's clear that we're taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e614	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Jon Georg Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e617	Not only Norwegian real-time enthusiasts are failing by the government. It is also getting older when one actually does not include more applicants for nurse training, in the provision of education. Numbers now show that there are more than twice as many applicants for nurse training as the first choices, as those who are actually admitted to schools. The challenge then is that when the government introduces the Interaction Reform from 1 January 2012, the competence that more than 4,000 students who want to train a nurse would actually need to be involved. How will the government follow up both the Interaction Reform and a worthy care for the elderly when this council does not ensure that there will be enough nurses in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e622	This Council of State and the Government ensure that there are enough nurses and that there are enough health professionals, both through the recruitments we do, and through the increases in the number of places of study. There are enough places to study here and enough opportunities not least for nurses in the future. But there are slightly different forecasts of how this need is. So we're always counting on the relationship between possible places of study and those who want to go to different places of study. We are just as busy as the representative of getting sufficiently qualified help to implement the cooperation reform and get sufficiently qualified applicants for both nursing and health professionals training. All of this together will help to recruit, so that, of course, we can also implement the cooperation reform with the necessary skills on the labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e629	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e632	I want to go back to the real science and engineering studies. It is so that we can read in the newspaper all the time a lot of suggestions about the great need for engineers in both the public and private sectors. One can take away hundreds of engineers at short notice. Now there's a lot of interest as a result of the real trades. Now I think some people feel very tricked, when it turns out that the government isn't following up all the fine things in the Realfach message for the future and a strengthening of the whole sector across, and they don't get study places. When it turns out that, as early as 2011, a strategy that would apply from 2010 to 2014 has been blocked, and it is not followed up in revision, I wonder what strategy the Council of State now has to give to all those who want to join this race, to further education and jobs that we sorely need.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e639	The government does this, the government follows up both with recruitment campaigns for the real-time studies and with increased places of study. So there's a lot of ways to think about it. I'm not going to go into the discussion in detail about the relationship between what's announced by places of study and what's applied for, because there's a lot of ways the different organisations and actors are counting on. But what I can be absolutely sure of is that the government has done well in following up what we can call the educational wave, with new places of study. And among the many, many professional opportunities that are, the government has actually prioritised engineering next to teaching and health. It has been important to do so precisely because the need is great, and precisely because there is also a need within the technological disciplines for a breadth and a variety of studies. Of course, teaching places decide for themselves, but once we have allocated new places of study, we have prioritised this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e646	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e649	I have a question for the Minister of Research and Higher Education. In an interview with Bergen's Official Journal last autumn, Minister of Economic Affairs Trond Giske took a strong settlement with Norwegian universities and students. According to Bergen’s Official Journal, the Minister of Economic Affairs, who has also previously been Minister of Education, is “not impressed by the hunger for Norwegian students and universities”. He says, ‘Over half of Norwegian students have introduced the six-hour day and universities have too low ambitions.’ He also says, ‘Look only at the Chinese students. They read to a long time at night. And that gives us results." And on the other hand, ‘I’m not impressed with the universities’ own ability to prioritise and opt out. If ambition is to rise, the management of universities must be able to focus on their activities. And then the mediocre must be given priority down, or gone altogether." So far this year, the Minister of Industry has given lectures on the same theme at several educational and research conferences, conferences in which the responsible Council of State has largely not been present. My question will then be: does the Council of State for Research and Higher Education share this analysis? Does she agree that Norwegian universities and students are too ambitious? In that case, what will she do to correct the situation? Should Norwegian students start to read for long at night? And what mediocre efforts at universities can it be time to remove?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e675	In this country, we introduced a quality reform for higher education, which, not least, the Council of State, Giske, has been contributing very positively to it. There are several government councils that have participated in it, and more governments. There has been a discussion about this reform and whether we have received the results we wanted. I want to be the first to say that there are improvement points not least when it comes to throughflowing, and when it comes to the time the students spend taking their studies. But we are a long way ahead where we were before the Quality Reform – that is, something has happened. The idea was that the students should be followed up and get better opportunities to conduct their studies, and it was very bad to do so before this reform was introduced. So we've seen that this has led to greater follow-up. There was a good increase in throughput in the first few years after the reform was completed, and then it's flattened out a little. There is nothing wrong with the fact that there is still a very strong searchlight from the individual schools at the time the students use to conduct the studies. But then I can also refer to the representative Warloe to the last issue of the Uniforum where it says a very fine article about a record fast doctor as the praises of the Quality Reform. This is an example of a very good student – which fortunately we have quite a few in Norway – and this is a student who has taken his doctorate in quality reform for eight years, because it was possible just through the new quality reform. So here, there's probably a little bit of different experiences and groups that it'll be in every context. But we have many good examples that the throughflow of the students – the time they spend on the studies – is very good and is better now after the Quality Reform. But then, frankly, we have some improvement points, and the universities and colleges are the most important ones that have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e682	Henning Warloe – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e685	It is always nice to hear the praise of the Quality Reform. After all, it was introduced by former state councillor Kristin Clement from the Right. I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Industry, so he won't be completely out of business here today. The Minister of Industry’s opinions have attracted some attention in the university and higher education sectors. In the opinion of many, he has contributed to the embarrassment of the Tora Aasland Council, since she is responsible for the sector. The criticism of the Minister of Industry is, above all, a criticism of the lack of action of his own colleague, who is therefore responsible. So the question is: what does the Minister of Industry think that the Minister of Research and Higher Education should do to correct the circumstances that he so strongly criticises?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e693	I believe that the Minister of Research should do a lot of what she is doing today to put the spotlight on quality in education, to contribute to world-class research environments and to strengthen research appropriations in Norway to record high levels. In fact, the research promise has been about as big as the Cultural Promise, as Warloe knows well from his past in mountain politics, so it does a lot. Quality reform came in 2001. There were two things that Kristin Clement did not follow up, as the then Labour Party government had suggested. One was to have a strengthened institutional board of directors – that's what she reversed. Then there was an extra NOK 10,000 for the students that we proposed, which was also reversed in the Clemets and Right's draft budget. It took care of the opposition at the time that it was still implemented, and I think that's one of the reasons we're getting increased throughflow, namely that the students can afford to be full-time students. It was a policy The right was against and that we implemented, and which I think is one of the success factors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e700	Three follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e703	Then I want a follow-up question to Tora Aasland. I recorded that the Council of State replied that there was very good flow among the students, and that as an answer to what has been taken up by Giske; perhaps there should be more intense concentration on education. So anyway, 85 pst. by those who take a bachelor's degree, implement within the normal time. In the case of the Master's degree students, it's 72 pst. One might want to discuss for a long time how good these numbers are, but at least there's a part that doesn't implement as we want them to do. What may be more daunting is that half of the registered students did not achieve 60 points of study in the last year, that is, 2009–2010. In fact, among the ordinary full-time students, it's 10 pst. which did not achieve the study score. How will the Council of State increase these results and seize them?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e710	First of all, I would like to clarify to the previous round here that the quality reform was managed by several government councils, and there was a broad consensus in the Stortinge on that reform. So there's no reason for any party to say that they have more monopoly on it than others. And then we're going to have to try to follow it up as closely as possible. Here too, there is a big difference in the level we now have after the quality reform has worked, compared to the level we had before the quality reform. It is quite right that there may be many reasons why you cannot take these 60 study credits. There may be disease, there may be different other causes, which can be explained by it. Overflowing is, of course, also difficult to calculate. What we're doing now is making sure that we have the best statistical basis possible. We're making these barometers, which show in detail for individual schools how to follow up the students. And here, there's also variation between schools. I have a crazy tool, and using good statistics, we're going to try to improve it where it's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e717	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e720	Let me start by saying that I am very much in agreement with the Council of State Giske in its time stated to the Official Journal of Bergen, and I believe that many of the universities have come to that recognition. State Council Giske has said a lot of sense – he's flashing at it. He has said that we should send many more students to countries like China and Brazil. However, then, government policy in the field, the policy pursued in the field, is that there are significant costs of taking a lower degree in Brazil and China, which are a prerequisite for many to leave. When will the government do anything about it? It's not just Brazil and China, it's also Russia, India, South Africa and the United States. That's the United States. It's not always that ambition and working ability are enough. In the United States, there is a significant proportion of the very best universities, which, according to all the government's arrangements, are only available to parents with deep wallets. Is that good socialist policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e727	It is not at all a good socialist policy, whether the socialist is called Tord Lien or Tora Aasland. We agree that it's very important to get students abroad. I would say that Norway has the best student funding in the world. It tells the students who are out, and we have good arrangements with many countries in terms of student funding. But I fully agree that we would like more students to go to China. There are probably both language barriers and other things that make you have a reduction in the number of students traveling to China. Fortunately, there are many Chinese coming here – at least it's a good start. But I'd like to, along with Tord Lien, also find good ways to get more people to China. I don't think it's just about economics. It's all about a whole lot of other things, too. We have good arrangements for students abroad, and we have good plans and strategies from our universities to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e734	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e737	It is quite bold of the Council of State to go around with such a description when the sector agrees that there may be some improvement points from the government as well. We all remember that this government bet – with no ambitions, through the rest cutting that was introduced. State Council Gishe also said here in his reply that it was now possible to be a full-time student, because now you could afford it. The signals that the Christian People's Party receives from the students are quite the opposite – there are increased costs both by living and by living. That is why many students are asking for what all three government parties have actually promised, namely that they should receive eleven months of study funding and that the study funding should also be at a higher level. So my simple question is: will the State Council of Aasland bring with it the State Council of Giske and the rest of the government to give the hungry students eleven months of study funding and the opportunity to be full-time students in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e744	Then we go to today's last answer, if the Council of State Guess from the Council of State of Aasland – please!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e747	I believe that the Council of State Gieske is one of the councils that have the greatest credibility and experience of the cultural promise. When he compares the research effort with the cultural promise, it gives great credibility to the research part, which is my responsibility. Here there has been a formidable development in the time of this government. So for study funding, which is also a repetition in this context. What the government has done, at the top of what I still want to say is one of the world's best student funding schemes, is to prioritise increased support for disabled students. This is the year. We've taken a lift for disabled students, while at the same time we have a life-cycle study for students that's going to give us the best possible basis for how we're going to increase student support. But we have chosen to pay particular attention to some vulnerable groups. The Soria Moria Declaration states that students with children are an important target group for better student funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e755	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e767	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Jon Georg Dale to the municipal minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing him. Question 3, from the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him. Questions 4 and 5 from Jan Tore Sanner and Gunnar Gunnar Gunnersen, respectively, to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Finance. At the request of the Minister of Justice, these questions are moved and answered in response to question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 11, by the representative, Mr Dahl, will be taken up by the representative, Mr Tetzschner. Question 13, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will, at the request of the Council of State, be moved and answered before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire. Question 14, from the representative of the Olemic Thommess to the Minister of Culture, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has departed. Question 17, from the representative of Sylvi Graham to the Minister of Labour, has been withdrawn. Question 18, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e790	So let's start with question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e797	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘It is widely agreed that Norwegian participation in international research cooperation is becoming increasingly important. The new international strategy of the Research Council places even greater emphasis on the EU’s central importance for the development of the quality of Norwegian research. On the other hand, the State Council’s own Party SV has asked in its current work programme for ‘a critical review of the EU’s dominant role in Norwegian research policy’. Does the Council of State agree with the assessment of this issue by the Research Council or the SV?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e806	The easiest ones would have been to answer yes to that question, but I'm going to elaborate on it. The 2009 Soria Moria Declaration states that the government will achieve the objectives of the Research Communication Climate for Research, where participation in European cooperation is a high priority. The Research Council's strategy is based directly on the Research Communication and is a concreteisation and continuation of the policies already adopted by the Government and the Trustee. I see no contradiction between the views of the Research Council and the SV on this matter. Norway’s Research Councils are the main ones to highlight the link – and contrast – between Norwegian priorities and EU priorities. The latest research communication called for clarification of these common and divergent priorities between the EU and Norway even more clearly. It is in line with SV's vision, with the Research Council's vision and with the government's vision. SV has always supported participation in EU cooperation on research. However, there is no contradiction between supporting the main features of cooperation and having a critical attitude towards alignment and concrete design. I might have stopped there, but I choose to use the opportunity to say something about how the government works with European research cooperation. Norway alone cannot achieve the key research objectives of building a modern infrastructure, solving common global problems or building a knowledge-based business for the future. Of course, this is done through close cooperation with other countries. Europe is one of the leading research areas in the world, and our geographical proximity makes strong formalised European cooperation a necessary tool in Norwegian research policy. Through European research cooperation, we also strengthen cooperation with other priority cooperation countries such as the Nordic countries, Germany, France and the United Kingdom. Since this cooperation also opens up participation from countries outside Europe, this is also increasingly an arena where we meet priority non-European countries such as the United States, Canada, Russia, China and Japan. This underlines the importance of EU cooperation as one of the most central instruments for internationalising Norwegian research in general. The Research Council also highlights the importance of seeing national and international work in a context. All applications shall assess the link to the international. Since the EU is the largest venue for comprehensive programme-based research cooperation, it is natural that the Research Council emphasises this cooperation. However, the government does not want our international research cooperation to be locked to European participation alone. We want open and free research cooperation involving countries from all over the world. What countries this depends on the needs of Norwegian research communities at all times, and the strategic challenges of Norway as a country. In some cases, Norwegian interests may conflict with the interests of the EU. The government is therefore closely following developments in EU research cooperation, including: through active participation in strategic committees set up by the European Commission to develop future European research cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e828	I was a little stunned when the Council of State started to say that the easiest thing was to answer yes. I didn't ask a yes/no question. I asked about the two opposite views expressed in the Research Council's assessment of the EU's importance for Norwegian research policy and quality and the SV's critical position on the EU. You cannot answer yes to both parts, but I note that the Council of State believes that there are no major contradictions. I think she must be quite alone in understanding that way, because there is a great deal of disagreement, in my opinion at least, in the relationship between the SV's assessment of the EU and the Research Council's assessment of the EU's importance for research policy. After all, there is no point in cooperating if all those involved in the cooperation are to do as they please. The point of working together must be to coordinate efforts. Will the Council of State help Norway to do more?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e835	With respect to reporting, I think I have a little bit more good on SV's research policy than what Henning Warloe has. So I can answer yes to the question – whether I agree with SV's assessment and with the Research Council's assessment. Because it's about making a critical look at the research efforts we do, including in the EU, and that's what my party SV wants us to, that we should not do uncritically as the representative says: just as we want. We have important priorities in Norway, and we want – always – to have critical reviews of what EU research stands for and what we are involved in through EU research. But there has never been any doubt that we should participate in that research, and that it is a very important research venue for Norwegian researchers as well. I am very pleased that these days we have confirmed that an important research area for Norway, on the healthy seas, has become an important topic in the next EU research framework programme. These include: Thanks to Norway’s efforts, and SV is very supportive. We think this research is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e842	Thank you. I think it's a little important if you initially have a critical approach to the EU, or if you have a positive approach because you like the results of the cooperation you're against – I'm talking about the Council of State in this case and her party. Concerns in Norway — and more have been expressed — about Norway's influence in research cooperation and the benefits of research cooperation in the years to come will be weakened as a result of increasingly being handled within the EU, and that the status and influence of outside countries will be weakened, among other things. in the development of European research cooperation ERA. Then is my question to the Council of State: does she wish to continue to flag a critical approach to the EU in this area, or will she be positive in order to strengthen Norway's influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e851	There is a major difference between being critical to the EU as a Union and as a political system and having an opinion on the important research cooperation that exists in the EU area. We are very strongly present in the work done in the EU context today in research, and have always been so. SV is no exception in this context, but SV wants critical searchlights on what we are involved in at all times and what priority is given to research. That shouldn't surprise anyone. At least there are no problems for this cooperation, rather the opposite. It's in all research that you have to be critical, and not just accept what's there in the first place. Our position on the EU has no negative influence on our research cooperation with the EU. Let's be clear. Here we want to participate, here we want, together with EU countries and other countries, as I mentioned, to get positive results. This can only be achieved in some of these research areas through broad international cooperation, including with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e858	We go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e865	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The EU has launched many educational programmes, including the Youth on the Move initiative, aimed at enabling all young people to take part in training abroad, including business training. In its response to the EU on 5 May 2011, the EFTA/EEA countries highlight funding challenges and possibly Norway’s participation in these programmes. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian students will continue to be able to participate in EU education programmes, such as Youth on the Move, in line with the rest of the EU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e874	The European Commission is preparing the new education and training programmes for the period 2014-2020. They will replace current programmes, which will apply until 2013. Norway is an active participant in the Lifelong Learning Programme – LLP. Participation includes partnerships for kindergartens, schools, vocational training and higher education and adult education institutions and many different mobility measures for pupils, apprentices, teachers and instructors at all levels. Norway is also actively involved in the organisation of this work by participating in the LLP Programme Committee, which the EU Commission coordinates. The EEA countries Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway submitted a comment to the Commission’s consultation on the future programmes for the period 2014-2020 by letter of 5 May 2011. The reason why this letter included a comment on the financing of the programme is because the Commission proposal for a new programming period opens up the possibility of the training programmes being co-financed by the Structural Funds and the European Investment Bank. As these sources of funding are not part of the EEA Agreement, and Norway is not contributing financially to these funds, we chose to refer to this in our comments to the European Commission and state that the forthcoming programme proposal should not reduce the possibility for EEA countries to participate in future education programmes. I fully agree with the representative of Aspaker that it is very important that Norwegian students, apprentices, students and teachers can participate in EU education cooperation in the same way as today, also from 2014. It is because I am also concerned that in the joint EFTA/EEA opinion, which is initiated from Norway, we have stressed that any new financial instruments for training cooperation should not be designed in such a way that they can, in practice, prevent equal participation with EU Member States, as we have today. The ministry will closely monitor how the Commission takes this forward, so that we can find a solution that does not limit our ability to participate. With regard to the so-called flagship initiative Youth on the Move, which the representative Aspaker mentions in his question, this is not formally part of the future lifelong learning programme on which there has now been a prior consultation, but the programme is one of the main instruments to follow it up. Youth on the Move is one of seven flagships promoted by the Commission as part of the follow-up to the EU's overall strategy towards 2020, called the EU 2020 Strategy. The main objective of the flagship is to improve education systems and increase employment and mobility among young people. The Ministry of Knowledge is actively following up the proposals in its field promoted by this and other flagship initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e885	I hear what the Council of State says in its reply. But the right is very concerned that Norwegian students will also have good opportunities to take education in the future. We know that there are some high-level schools – to concentrate on the level – that have made some efforts, and that have had quite significant challenges in that way in order to provide student schemes both in terms of student funding, and to get them into systems that are so similar to Norwegian that they can go both ways, that they can start at home and possibly complete education at home, but nevertheless have a part of their education within some of these EU programmes. But I want to challenge the Council of State: what level of ambition do you have with regard to the proportion of Norwegian high school students who will be able to take their education out? We have quite high ambitions in higher education, but what level of ambition does the Council of State see in terms of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e892	For the time being, we have not discussed or concluded on what level of ambition we should have, if the representative Aspaker thinks of a percentage of students who are now taking secondary education. The process we are in now is to ensure that we continue these education programmes in such a way that Norwegian students, students, teachers, instructors and apprentices can participate in the same way as EU countries. I believe that in Stortinget there will be a cross-political consensus that, together with the other EEA countries, we are on the verge of excluding from the EU any new proposals to finance them. We come back to Stortinget in a separate proposition in 2013 about our participation in the new programming period. I expect that we will have an engaged debate in Stortinget on this. If you want to send us some points of view on the way in the process that is currently going on, so that we get a good setup in place from 2014, I would like to accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e899	Norway is a country that – I was saying – is completely dependent on the world to which we can sell and export our goods. It doesn't matter how much of our students actually take part of their education internationally, and they gain that kind of experience during the March. I think, at least, that there might be a connection between the extent to which we are able to stimulate students already while they are in high school, to begin to orient themselves abroad, and the number of students who later again, during higher education, take part of their education abroad. My question to the Council of State is: does she see that there can also be a connection here as to how many people we are able to motivate earlier to start taking part in the study abroad? What kind of new means does the Council of State see that action should be taken to increase education abroad at all levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e906	I can't think on the go if we have any research-based knowledge that suggests that, for example. Exchange students have a higher frequency of foreign studies than others. But it's very easy to imagine that for those who are introduced to foreign education systems, who have already lived one year while going to higher education, abroad, and know the language well, the threshold for choosing further studies abroad is lower than for others. I think it's essential that we make this system work. There may be rather complex reasons why it is successful or not to take part in secondary education, for example: the type of host family to which you come if you are able to adapt the training you receive to upper secondary education at home, etc. It's a wide range of issues that we can look at in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e917	This question, from the representative Jon Georg Dale to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e920	It is always a pleasure to meet the Minister of Knowledge, even when, in my opinion, the responsibility for answering the question lies with the Minister of Municipal Affairs. However, the question is as follows: ‘New figures show that while 4000 students apply for further education this year, only about 1,500 will be offered by their municipal employers to do so. The teacher's competence is the most important factor in strengthening school learning. Consequently, it is a paradox that municipalities do not take their share of the responsibility for continuing education and training for their teachers. What will the Council of State do to ensure that municipalities more than at present contribute to accessing continuing training for all teachers in need of professional training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e929	The President will draw attention to the fact that it is the Councils themselves who decide the division of labour between themselves, under the direction of the Prime Minister – according to our constitution and our tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e932	Yes, this is my responsibility, although I am totally dependent on good cooperation with the municipalities. The arrangement to which the representative refers is a layer of splinter between several parties. It is true that when the deadline for applications for school owners to give priority to continuing education for participants in the state initiative expired on 15 April of this year, municipalities had only continued 1 450 applications, despite the fact that they did. 4000 teachers have applied for further training. The final figures will not be clear until June, but we have no faith that they will increase significantly. So we're in a situation where there's a big gap between what the teachers themselves want, and what the municipalities continue to do. Quality Competence – Strategy for the further training of teachers 2009–2012 was established in a partnership between the Ministry of Knowledge, KS, teachers and management organisations and the University and Higher Education Council. This strategy presupposes increasing teachers’ competence in the form of continuing training, with 30–60 credits in the field of education. Priority subjects in the strategy during this period are Norwegian/Samian, mathematics, English, literacy, physics, chemistry, professional programming, practical-esthetic subjects and counselling. I have now, together with the parties, started a discussion about which device a new period, 2012-2015, should have. The school owner is responsible for recruiting qualified staff in schools and for ensuring school development, continuing education and training for his staff, cf. Section 10 of the Training Act. However, there is broad political consensus that the State should contribute to the development of the competences of teachers in specific priority areas. In 2011, the country uses approx. 400 million. kr for teacher training, continuing training and continuing training. In both 2009 and 2010, funds were redeployed as a result of a low level of search for continuing training services in the framework of a strategy for continuing training. In 2009, the county councils and municipalities received the excess funds for various competence development measures. In 2010, there was 45 million. re-disposed to the re-training of teachers, advisers and vocational training actors, actions aimed at municipalities with weak results on national tests, class management, curriculum understanding and assessment. The revised national budget, presented to the Stortinget on 13 May, redeployed the funds for further training, amounting to 25 million. kr for class management and calculation and 35 million. SEK for the maintenance of schooling in New GIV. Since the final number of participants is not clear, there may be smaller adjustments in the figures. Before the 2011/2012 application process, I have made some changes with the parties to increase the number of applicants. I can come back to that. I also have – the 13th. – met with the parties that are part of this agreement, because there is such a gap between how many places the country can offer and how many places the municipalities will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e951	It is evident that the competence of Norwegian teachers is the most decisive factor in ensuring good learning outcomes for pupils in Norwegian school. It is then a paradox that many teachers in a full career within the school – 40 years – may be offered further and further training once. It goes without saying that it is difficult to follow the professional developments when employers do not more than facilitate professional refurbishment during the work. The question is therefore: Is the Council of State, since the Minister of State is unable to answer this question, that a government is being implemented, that the pressure from the Minister of State to get the municipalities to carry out continuing training in accordance with the agreements in place, where the municipalities are to contribute 40 pst. funding, is there enough, or does the government have a job to do here?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e958	It is clear when I go through the figures for the different municipalities and can compare comparable municipalities, that there are very different attitudes in the municipalities to what it means to have employer responsibility for teachers in terms of further education. We have a very clear goal of increasing the competence of teachers. For this reason, these means of continuing training are designed to take 30–60 credits in courses. In some municipalities, they think it's a big investment in a single teacher. I get many points of view that they prefer to lubricate their efforts a little bit thinner, and give shorter courses to more teachers. We also expect municipalities to do that, but this effort is to increase formal competence. I am in close dialogue with the municipalities about this. It is obvious that we need to discuss with the parties how to get a form of this that will allow the state's funds to be used after the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e967	Governments might as well say no, local authorities don't do enough. That's what the Council of State says. And honor the council because she's so honest. I would like the Minister of Knowledge, together with the Minister of Municipal Affairs, to be able to grasp this important area, as this is the decisive factor in increasing our competence in Norwegian schools. I think the council agrees that we can't wait for these numbers to go up. Now we've got search engines in place. Nevertheless, the study provision does not come from the municipalities. Then the question is, should the state increase its contribution? On this occasion, it is interesting to hear whether the Minister of Knowledge has assessed whether we, for example, have. shall increase the State contribution to 50 pst., from 40 pst. today, at the cost of 10 pst. from municipalities. Have such assessments been made to ensure that we gain more competence for teachers in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e976	We have made a number of changes for the current year to get the search up, among other things. we have sent out information booklets to all schools, we have made it possible for teachers to apply directly – first with recommendation from the principal, and then next time make sure they have the support of the municipalities. That's why we now find that there's such a big gap between the teachers' wishes and what they want. We've also looked at how we could set up the offer we're making, a little bit more flexible. What makes it difficult to cut all municipalities across a comb is that some municipalities are very good at using this scheme and very conscious of the fact that they are just to offer further training to increase their formal competence by 30 or 60 study credits, while others are almost non-participants in the programme. I have assessed whether getting an increase of 10 pst would lead to a big difference. to the proportion of the country and, mutatis mutandis, to the proportion of the municipality. I do not believe that at this time, but I am now in contact with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e983	We go to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e990	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions: ‘In response to what has been said in the Fisheries Bulletin on Monday 9 May, there is strong criticism of what is being referred to as too much bureaucracy in the whaling industry. This criticism comes from a very experienced professional. One has also seen in the past that strong criticisms have been made against the authorities regarding the restrictions on the catch of whales in the Svalbard zone. Will the Council of State consider how to simplify and improve the framework conditions applicable to whaling so that the industry still has the right to live?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e999	There are many requirements for the Norwegian fishing and fishing industry, including those of the authorities. We want to ensure sustainable capture and good hygiene related to seafood and to take animal welfare into account. This is nothing new. That's how it's been for a long time, and that's how we've built up the good reputation that the industry actually has today. Some actors in the industry are more obedient than others in their view of the state of things. That doesn't mean they're always right, but often they get the most attention. We must be able to live with that. But criticism as one-sided black painter is a little constructive. What we are in danger of then – and it is taking me seriously – is to scare the youth away from choosing a way of life within fishing and fishing. And no one deserves it. The core of the representative’s questions is simplification and framework conditions. My starting point is that legislation and requirements must be well-founded, understandable and easy to deal with, taking into account both profitability and the way in which catches are to be carried out. There is also a background for the waiver of the requirement for electronic reporting for the current year by whale-catchers, at their own discretion, despite the fact that electronic reporting will in the long term be a simpler way to report to business operators and lead to better and simpler control for authorities. Tracking of fishing and fishing vessels is an important tool in resource control and in the fight against UUU fishing. If we lower the requirements or open the door to exceptions for some, the control system, which has given very good results in the Barents Sea, will be hollowed out. It's not a development I want. In the case of whaling in particular, it stands in a special position in the case of strict regulation regimes. This is due – as I am sure the representative is also well aware – to the international framework conditions resulting from our IWC membership. I am very concerned that Norway also within this system achieves the framework conditions for the whaling that are to live with and that are not perceived as unnecessarily burdensome by our prisoners. We will therefore continue to work for the best possible solutions for the industry. That being said, the question of whether the whaling industry has the right to life is, in my opinion, not a question of what we are doing or not on the authority side, but a question of what the industry itself is doing to achieve in the market. We're going to do our thing, but the main challenge today is to raise the demand for whale meat and to help facilitate greater quota utilisation. Here, industry – at sea and land – needs to cooperate both in product development and in market labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1012	I really wanted the Council of State to be a little more offensive in its answer. Governments in other industries have shown a great deal of action. In particular, she has been involved in putting in place a good code of practice for the industry itself, including: within farming, and for which there shall be a great reward to the Council of State. But it seems that from the government's and department's side the weather here is waiting to see if the storm passes, instead of being proactive to figure out how we can be involved and contribute, so that everyday life becomes easier for professionals. Among other things, it is shown that: to IWC. There has been strong criticism, among other things. related to the sustainability of Norwegian membership in this particular Commission — I kept saying — for Norway in the long term, because the Commission has taken decisions that actually go against Norway as a fishing nation at all times. My question to the Council of State on framework conditions is this: Will the Council of State at least ensure that there is a review of the legislation in place to look at the possibility of simplification?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1023	It is well possible that I could be even more active in the whaling industry. At the latest, I had a meeting with the small whale-catchers one week ago, on 11 May, where we discussed the challenges of whaling. I'm not hiding that there are more. The main problem, as I said in my answer, is related to market and market challenges. Then, of course, we will have a review of the legislation at all times. We now have to assess the question of what kind of gambling we are, for example. have within the management regime of whaling with regard to management zones, which is one of the themes that has been under way recently. We work for maximum flexibility for the industry. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that we support the opinions of the Scientific Committee. We do that today, and I think we do all we can to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1028	Now the Council of State was right in on my last question, which the government has not shown the will to find a solution, namely the zone division. Because it's clear that when you're first required to submit samples of DNA material from the whale over time, and then you find that it's from the same population that you find in both the North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the Svalbard Zone, and when the Norwegian authorities then manage to set a very low quota in the Svalbard Zone, where it's actually easiest to catch the whale, it shows that we don't have the authorities with us, but to a large extent against us. It helps to drive costs up. Then there are the other regulations, and then of course you point to the market-like – yes, that it should be solved by the actors themselves. Obviously, here the industry itself has a job to do. But the authorities have a job to do to open doors. As I said before, to me, this might look like you're not doing that much effort. What exactly will the Council of States do to increase Norwegian efforts in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1037	When it comes to opening doors, well, that's -- I think, to be honest -- essentially Norwegian doors. The main market for Norwegian whale meat is the Norwegian market. That's where I think it's a potential. That's what I've been talking to the industry about, and there I'm definitely going to see if we can't do more. As regards the different zones and the catch limitations existing, Norway has accepted the zoning — more and less independent of the presence of one or more genetic strains in that area. We accepted it as a general precaution, without protesting. Then, of course, we're going to assume that we have to look at the scope of action within the administrative regime we have. During the last fishing period, most of the whale was taken outside the Svalbard zone, so it's not always there – it's wandering. I've had a relatively steep learning curve in terms of the whale's migration pattern, but it can change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1046	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1053	This question, from the representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Transport who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1056	The question is as follows: ‘Increased use of emergency locator transmitters could save the country for millions of dollars in rescue operations related to the use of helicopters, coastguard ships and other equipment. 15 people have drowned here to date this year. The fee for such a sender is NOK 600 per year, and that is why it is only approx. 1 100 users. Purchases, registration and use of personal emergency locator transmitters are free of charge in countries such as Sweden and the United States. Will the Council of State consider removing this fee and what budgetary implications, if any, will it have?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1065	I am pleased that the representative Hoksrud believes that people at sea and people who are faring in the eye and inaccessible strokes should pay attention to safety and, among other things, safety. use personal radio beacons. I'm also busy at people thinking about security. Nevertheless, I think it is reasonable that people who use such services are involved in paying administrative costs associated with having such an offer. The Post and Telecommunications Authority shall operate a system of registration and supervision for personal air traffic controllers and air traffic controllers. Pursuant to the regulation on fees for postal and telecommunications supervision, the supervisory authority shall levy an annual fee for the radio and television broadcasters referred to therein. For personal radio rangers, the fee is NOK 600 per year. With more than 1 400 personal personal radio beacons in use, this supervision provides a total annual fee revenue of approximately NOK 850000. The operations of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority shall, in accordance with decisions taken in the Stortinget, be initially self-financed and cost-oriented charges shall cover the costs incurred by the supervision to manage the scheme. The removal of charges for personal signalers would result in users of supervision’s services in other management areas being burdened with a proportionately higher proportion of the costs associated with supervision. As an alternative, the costs of work allocated to seconded agents must be excluded from the self-financing scheme and instead be covered by the State budget. The removal of the fee for personal beacons and an increase in the fee for other products or services would conflict with the principle that the fee should be cost-oriented. I don't think the fee for such beacons is unreasonable, but I would also like to point out that if a lot more people use such transmitters, the annual fee may gradually be reduced because the management costs are shared among several users, while these costs do not increase linearly with the number of users.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1076	I am pleased that there are obviously hundreds of new ones who have arrived after the undersigned was in contact with the Post and Telecommunication Authority about how many people use personal emergency locator transmitters. Nevertheless, I want to challenge the Council of State, because the social consequences are very great in terms of outreach and search. You spend a lot of money on every search. The removal of this fee may in fact mean that more people would purchase personal emergency locator transmitters, which would also have made it possible to get the help you need when you have been in an accident. Does the Council not see that there would be a small cost from the State to take over the costs incurred by the postal and telecommunications authorities in relation to all the savings that can be made by the fact that there is a need for less resources to be recovered, because it is easier and faster to find those who may be missing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1085	Let me say, for the first time, the number of users of personal radio scouts has increased steadily. Last fall, the number has increased by more than 100 to over 1,400 actively registered identities. This is a sign that the existing scheme works satisfactorily. It is necessary to have a registration system for personal radio transmitters so that a link is made between the unique identity of the transmitter equipment itself and the user of the equipment. When an alarm is triggered, the rescue service knows who needs help, and they can also contact registered contact persons to check it. may have been triggered by a false alarm. These routines are designed to ensure that the service works well, and that's my starting point here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1092	I understand that the Council of State still will not answer if she will now make sure to remove this fee. It would probably lead many more people to buy personal emergency locator transmitters, which would lead to that if you were to get into an accident, it would be even easier to get to it quickly, and the costs would be far, far lower for society. Overall, as far as I know, it has cost approx. Two million. to develop this system and the annual costs are relatively low for postal and telecommunications supervision. It could actually mean that the state could have saved a lot of money by releasing some of the rescue operations, and had not started as many measures as you do today, because you don't have personal emergency locator transmitters. Why does the Council of State not want to remove this charge? That would lead to many, many more than just the 100 extras that come to each year, would buy this. Then you would know that it was not an additional annual cost, which is NOK 600. For some young people in particular, there will be a relatively high cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1101	We look at different schemes from year to year – whether they work after purpose, and whether improvements or changes are necessary and appropriate. And so will this arrangement. So far, then, we've kept to the fact that this is a system that the Post and Telecommunications Authority manages, and the fees they charge are going to be involved in financing the system itself. There are necessarily costs associated with the management. We haven't found it so unimaginable that users are involved in covering these costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1106	Questions 4 and 5 will be answered later, after question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1113	The question is: «The Road Administration Section of the State Road Administration measures the state of the majority of the national road network each year. The figures for the period 2000-2009 show a gradual deterioration, with an overall increase of 48 pst. The state of the county road network is also worrying, and in 2010 the total was 53 pst. of the road network classified as poor or very poorly measured on the road surface condition. What is the Council of State plan to reduce road damage, and when can drivers expect both national and county roads to be in good condition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1122	For both the national and county roads, a maintenance run has been built over a long period of time as a result of insufficient means of maintenance and necessary upgrade. This also applies to road surfaces. In the context of ongoing work on the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the State Road Service assesses the extent and the cost of eliminating this. This material will be an important basis for the State Road Administration’s plan proposal, to be completed in February 2012. For national roads, statistics on the state road system show that the volume of road surfaces classified as very poorly increased each year over the period 2000–08. For both national and county roads, statistics show that the extent of road surface classified as very poorly has decreased in the period 2008–2010, while the extent classified as poor has still increased for county roads. It is therefore wrong to say that the maturity of the road cover has increased in the last two years, as it is the extent classified as very poor which best indicates whether the maturity increases or decreases. In the 2011 budget, the government has increased significantly both the operation and maintenance of the road network. Mr. Blackevik is well aware of this. But let me draw the lines below: In 2011, for example: Set of 5 billion. kr for the operation and maintenance of the national road network, including regional expenditure for the same road administration. It's a huge increase. That's 20 pst. Or 880 million. kr more than the 2010 budget. It's worth about $1.9 billion. kr for operation of the road network. That's an increase of 200 million. kr, or 12 pst. in relation to the 2010 budget. For maintenance, there will be a further 1.55 billion. kr, which is an increase of 580 million. kr, or a total of 60 pst. in relation to the 2010 budget. Based on today's calculation models, the 2011 budget will put an end to the growth of national roads. The budget thus represents a break in a long-term trend. Of course, when it comes to the county roads, we also follow closely. We know that the county councils have increased their commitment, and we're doing it ourselves by transferring funds together with the roads that were transferred from 1 January 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1146	The question was thus finalized as follows: «When can the drivers expect both national and county roads to be in good condition?» I am not sure if they will be much wiser. The government has too many targets. It has a target of lunar landing, where the money sits quite loose. It has objectives, for example: for the number of hospitalisation sites, both in terms of number of places and years — enough hospitalisation sites in 2015. What is the Minister of Transport's goal on behalf of the Government in terms of roads and road standards? How long should the drivers wait? Is it at the same time a zero vision for better roads? So quite concrete and specific: in what year can the government promise that the majority of highways and highways are in good condition, and appear to be safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1155	When it applies to targets in relation to the standard, and when it applies to a year, we know a lot more about it in 2012. The state road authority has now started a work to serve as a basis for the biggest message to be submitted in the spring of 2013. So I have to get back to that. And let me say that when it comes to the county roads, it's still the individual county municipality that established the maintenance standard. The aftermath is naturally related enough to the maintenance standard. But it's also that Handbook 111, which deals with the standard, is under review, so there might be a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1162	Thank you again for your answer. The county road network is particularly poor – I initially had that. 53 pst. of the county roads were very poor or poor in 2010. The Transport Committee has recently carried out an inspection, including: in Telemark. The message from the Telemark County Council is quite clear, as it is from a number of other states, that this job of getting the road standard up to a good and safe and acceptable level we can't do alone. We're not going to make it by using the money that came with the administrative reform, we're not going to make it when we use the loan framework, and we're not going to make it when we put extra county money in the pot. We need some help. This was a clear message from Telemark County, but it has also come from a number of other counties – here there is a need for help. What further assistance will the government provide to county councils in order to repair bad roads within a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1173	First, it followed with funds directly to the roads taken over by the county councils, and second, it followed by 1 billion. kr extra in 2010, which was carried forward in 2011, and then obtained the possibility of interest-free loans corresponding to 2 billion. kr both in 2010 and 2011. And it will be implemented. Besides, it's very important that the government always adheres to the county councils' economy, that is, to what is announced in the municipal bill, and that is to be used where the county councils themselves think it's the most necessary. That's where they used something for 2011. They're probably going to do it in 2012, but it's the big pot that gets increased every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1184	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The EU Transport White Paper refers to a central network of freight and passenger transport corridors. It is described that information technology is to be widely implemented on all TEN-T infrastructure with the aim of simplifying administrative procedures, tracing and locating goods and optimising freight flows and timetables – e-cargo. What are the plans of the Norwegian Councils for the implementation of e-cargo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1193	The representative Halleraker addresses a theme that will become important in the years to come, that is, how we can take advantage of new technology. This is also the theme of the so-called White Paper on future transport policy in the EU that has recently been presented. In Europe, e-cargo solutions include: intended to build up under the idea of a stronger internal market and to improve the competitiveness of European businesses. E-cargo is based on modern information and communication technology. The goal is to get a flow of information that is cheaper, more accurate and more reliable than is the case today. The White Paper notes that e-cargo should be encouraged by requiring such solutions to be used in the so-called TEN-T network and gradually introduced into the whole transport system. I am very much in favour of the suggestions mentioned in this message, including: the future international cooperation on e-cargo. The introduction of the various e-cargo solutions will be primarily a task for operators in the transport market. It is they who should primarily use and take advantage of this, and more companies in this country have everything to do with advanced electronic solutions. The important thing for the future is that both public and private actors use solutions that allow different systems to "speak together". Without common standards, we don't get a system that sticks together. The government will facilitate the further development of e-cargo in an efficient way, including: by ensuring infrastructure development – in this context, I am thinking specifically of electronic infrastructure. In addition, it is our task to ensure the development of legislation that regulates and supports the use of such systems. We're busy developing and building knowledge about this area, so we don't get hung up on it. All of this is well under way. We may at times think that from the Norwegian side we feel that this is going a bit late, but here we have to go in tandem with other countries. The representative of Halleraker, of course, is aware of the strong leverage this government has created when it comes to infrastructure. I think I'd like to prove to be a future and a basis for efficient transport. We also participated in the creation of common standards and guidelines for traffic information, for example in the implementation of the so-called ITS Directive. In this work, many Norwegian actors are involved, both to give up knowledge and to take knowledge back to Norway. Let me also mention that e-cargo has been a theme of the EU's 7th research framework programme, in which Norway took part. In Norway, we have the research programme SMARTRANS – which is part of the Ministry of Transport and Finance through the Research Council. So in sum, there's been a lot of work done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1214	I'd like to ask you an additional question. I thank you for your answer. I do understand that the Council of State is positive about this system and that it will facilitate what is – we say – a responsibility of the authority for the proper functioning of such a function for the actors, both in terms of regulation, standard approximation and equipment. But it is also true, as the Council of State says, that this also implements other directives, for example. The ITS Directive, which is essentially a technology directive that marks a transition from road edge technology to more satellite-based technology in the long term. It is clear that it will also have a serious implications for an e-cargo system. Do Norwegian authorities have any thoughts about how we should handle it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1221	There is a need for systematic work in several areas, both within the TEN-T network, which are not yet fully defined, either in the EU or Norway, as well as in connection with the ITS Directive and in other ways. The most important thing we can do is to work systematically and actively at the forums and at the venues in this area. So what's important is that we develop together with other countries. This is the area where we're going to be very careful to develop our own Norwegian standards and solutions where we can't talk about systems in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1226	I thank you again for the answer. In its first response, the Council of State said that from the Norwegian side it sometimes felt that the EU was a little behind. In some areas, I'm of a different opinion. In fact, I believe that the EU is on the offensive, especially with regard to the development of new technology systems that go on innovation and the introduction of new technologies, with which we have just referred to a specific directive in connection. But also on competition policy and neutrality, it is a directive that actually intervenes in this, and it is the Eurovignette Directive, which is to ensure that transit transport is given equal competition. How does the Council of State view these things in connection with both the ITS and what is now in the White Paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1231	First of all, let me not say that the EU is following, and I don't think I expressed myself that way either. But I said we can sometimes feel that things are going a little late. It is because there are 27 countries, and others in addition, which are supposed to talk together and develop common standards, because one in turn should be able to communicate best, either electronically or otherwise. When it comes to the Eurovignette Directive, I have nothing new to report today. But this is the case both with the TEN-T network and with the Eurovignet Directive that we know they mean a lot to Norway, and we are busy getting good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1242	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The letter of the Council of State to the Transport and Communications Committee of the Storting on 29 March 2011 states that the main consequence of the proposal for requirements for encryption is increased costs, and that it is not possible to provide a precise estimate of the costs of such introduction. How will the Council of State follow up its responsibilities in relation to the decision of the Storting in connection with Prop. 49 L for 2010–2011 Changes in the eco-nomy and criminal procedural law, etc., in particular related to the safety of traffic data storage?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1251	Of course, I should follow up my share of responsibility when it comes to data storage security. Communication and data protection are already provided by the current economial law. The changes adopted by the Storting to introduce the Data Storage Directive do not alter this, but it is clarified that the Governing Councils can provide additional rules on security. As a follow-up, I have asked the Postal and Telecommunications Authority to evaluate security rules now that they are in the process of processing data storage regulations. Otherwise, it is not in the Ekomlaw that any encryption requirement will need to be adjusted. The size passed a change in privacy laws that allows encryption to be required in regulations. In other words, the personal data law will reflect any such requirement. Since the measure targets privacy, it will be the Minister of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs who will be responsible for the Data Protection and Data Protection in general who will be responsible for the follow-up in consultation with me and other government councils in charge. I otherwise insist on what I said in the letter to Stortinget on 29 March 2011 that the consequence of a requirement for encryption could lead to very high costs for the providers and be challenging to implement. I am busy finding a balance between privacy and information security and costs to the industry, and I am confident that the Data Protection Authority will make such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1260	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. As I perceive the Council's statement in a letter of 29 March, she pointed out that the only thing that would have consequences was increased costs, and at the same time she did not know what these costs would be. But I also expect the Council of State to follow up on what was the majority of the government, and what became the majority of the Grand Council in terms of its own responsibilities. I would therefore like to ask again how the Council of State in its area intends to follow up what is actually a tightening of the framework of security, of what follows from the Data Storage Directive, which was given a majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1265	The costs will depend on what security requirements are imposed. However, encryption will be possible in different ways and levels, and introducing the simplest form of encryption of the database will increase the investment costs for the providers. The size of the action does not indicate what kind of action the action should be. So I don't have the ability to suggest what it's going to cost. Today there are 236 suppliers on the market. Someone's small. It goes without saying that costs are becoming more extensive for them. We will be able to say more about costs only when the requirements are met and the providers have their solutions put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1270	Thank you again to the Council of State for your answer. Now it is the case that the Storting has listed a number of restrictions within the privacy area in relation to the storage, authorisation of personnel, encryption, authorisation, concession and a number of conditions to tighten up the way traffic data is stored. Since this is the Council of State's own responsibility, it is natural that I am also allowed to ask how the Council of State intends to follow this up and possibly come back to the Stortinget with restrictions and enforcements in the form of regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1277	So I'll only be able to come back when it's more clear what to encrypt. But let me say that Teleplan has estimated the cost of introducing the data storage directive to between 200 and 250 million. Norwegian kroner over a five-year period without encryption requirements. Some important cost elements included in an encryption requirement are software, hard drives, servers, license fees, operation and maintenance. Telenor has suggested that an encryption requirement could increase investment costs by up to 100 million. kr. But the amount is uncertain. It depends on whether you can use the default components, whether there are multiple keys, different users, and much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1287	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The population of the Western region is concerned about what is happening at Bærum Hospital. This is because several functions have been removed at the hospital. Berum hospitals shall have certain area functions and shall have free premises. Will the Council of State take the initiative to add primary responsibility for neurology to Bærum Hospital due to cooperation with the Rikshospitale on acute stroke treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1296	Health South-East RHF has commissioned Vestre Viken HF to develop a plan for future assignment and functional distribution in the hospital area. The level work shall be based on the leadership of the Board of Directors in Health South-East. The Decision states, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t ‘Specialised area functions shall, as a general rule, be grouped under one management and preferably at one location in each morbidity.’;» In the case study of the Board of Directors, this is specified: ‘When a health enterprise is established in Buskerud, Asker and Bærum sickehugebiet [[now West Viken]] In the context of the plan work, the following leaderships were added to the Board of Directors of Vestre Viken HF in January 2011: ‘The investigation shall assume that Drammen Hospital will continue to be a district hospital for the West Viking.’ And on the other hand, ‘The investigation work is based on the utilisation of building capacity at Bærum Hospital and the use of Bærum Hospital as a local hospital with emergency facilities and a maternity ward. It is assumed that Bærum Hospital/MHH shall have area functions for the Western Week and several alternatives shall be provided for this.» Vestre Viken HF states that the treatment provision in neurology will be considered as an area function along with some other treatment services. These offers shall be evaluated in a holistic, professional context. Battle-handling offers will be part of the investigation work, and several alternatives will be presented to the Western Viken HF regime. With this in mind, I assume that the work in the West Viken HF so far is consistent with the leadership given by Health South-East RHF in the board case 108/2008. The results of the plan shall be presented in October. It is planned to be adopted by the Western Viken HF Board in March 2012, and I will follow up on what is proposed. In addition, I believe that the Western Viken HF board is related to the leaders who are now in the National Health and Care Plan 2011-2015, which the Stortinget will be considering in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1326	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have asked questions about Bærum hospitals before, and then the council said that she would ask all the politicians to try to calm the population, because operating with functional distribution between hospitals might as well lead to Bærum having more functions. But it's not easy to calm the population, and we don't mess up the situation. There's a lot of anxiety. Well-informed sources tell me that Bærum Hospital is now absolutely not in budget balance, which it has been before. They have been denied the purchase of equipment and refused employment. In addition, many rooms are available, as I said at the outset. In the light of the major expansions taking place in Drammen, can the Minister of Health promise that this will not go down on Bærum Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1335	There have also been indications that there will be four local hospitals in the Western Viking region. It has been part of the strategy. Bærum hospital shall continue to be an important hospital. I have a great deal of understanding that when you're going to make functional benefits, there's an uncertainty. But I think you have to assume that this is important in relation to patients and in order to bring together important functions, so that you get an adequate patient base. Unfortunately, there are so many places in our country that this is necessary, because specialization becomes more specialised, and we can't, no matter how many doctors you have to have money to employ, maintain all of these functions. That's why it's important to do it. Then we'll see this work a little bit in the future, but there's no way that Bærum hospital should be an important hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1344	I thank you again for the answer. It has also been told to me that there are no visible and present managers at Bærum Hospital as it is now. They're ambulance bosses. This is also a major challenge for the hospital. Then it's important to be transparent. Neither the employees nor the population in Bærum feel that there is openness around the processes that are taking place. Many features have been adopted moving from Bærum to Drammen. But can the Council of State now say anything about what functions are being moved from Drammen to Bærum?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1353	It's very hard to say when you're in the middle of a process. As I also said in my answer, it is so that they should come back to this. There shall be several alternatives to be presented to the Western Week government. I have a very strong understanding of the commitment, but the most important thing is that the population in an area where, after all, there is a short way to hospital should have a good hospital offer. That's what you have in the Oslo region. This is the region in the country that has the highest density of both doctors and specialists in all areas. It's important that we do this in a way that benefits the population. Then I have a great deal of understanding that you're worried about your hospital. But it's the way that Bærum Hospital is going to be an important hospital in the future. I'm absolutely sure it will be. Then we'll have to follow this situation carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1364	‘Do Norwegian health authorities have a system in place to ensure that Norway is reimbursed for expenditure on healthcare for non-resident citizens from the EEA territory under the Patient Directive and other rules for such reimbursement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1369	I assume that the representative’s question concerns only health care expenditure for foreign citizens from the EEA territory. EEA Regulation 1408/71 ensures that EEA nationals who are covered by the social security system of a Contracting State are entitled to the necessary health care during temporary residence or residence in other EEA countries. The patient should be treated under the same conditions as patients who are a member of the public interest. A reimbursement settlement shall be made between the country of treatment and the EEA country where the patient is covered by a social security system. The choice between countries should be based on actual treatment costs. Countries may agree on other forms of settlement, e.g.: in whole or in part, waive reimbursement. Norway has agreed to waive reimbursement with some countries, including Norway. all the Nordic countries. Norway has a settlement with most other EEA countries. The responsibility for the implementation of the country-by-country balances has been added to the Health Economics Administration, HELFO. HELFO covers the expenditure of health establishments and requires reimbursement from the relevant EEA country. In 2010, HELFO claimed 26.5 million. kr from other EEA countries, against 14,5 million. kr in 2009. HELFO today sends reimbursement requirements for hospital treatment. After I have been informed, it is problematic to send reimbursement demands for treatment to other treatment groups such as medics, physiotherapists, psychologists. The background is that treatment providers’ ICT systems are not sufficiently organised to record treatment data on EEA patients. Non-identification of the patient’s ICT systems, e.g. if he/she is a member of the Convention spaced, he/she may not be able to claim reimbursement from other EEA countries. The Directorate for Health, in cooperation with the Directorate for Labour and Welfare, has launched the development of an ICT system for land settlement. Effective land settlement collection requires the development of the ICT systems of treatment providers. I will therefore follow up this matter. In the revised 2011 national budget, the government proposes increasing appropriations under the Working and Welfare Act and the Health Directorate of HELFO for the development of ICT systems to enable information on social and health rights and mechanisms to be transmitted electronically between countries. The electronic exchange shall replace the manual paper forms of the day. The aim is for all disciplines to be connected to the ICT system by 1 May 2012. When the Patient Directive enters into force, Norway will not be responsible for expenditure for EEA citizens who choose to receive treatment in Norway under the provisions of the Directive. The Patient Rights Directive presupposes that the patient himself pays for the treatment and then submits reimbursement requirements to the home Member State authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1388	Based on what the Council of State answers, I understand that a person sees the situation as satisfactory for the specialist health service, but not for the primary health service. Can the Council say anything about how, or to what extent, it expects, expenditure in the EEAS specialist health service for non-citizens who are not members of the public interest to be caught up in today's system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1393	With the numbers that we've got here, it's said that in 2010 it was charged 26.5 million. SEK and 14,5 million. kr in 2009. That's what I said in my answer. There's no reason to think this isn't going to get caught. After I have been informed by today at the latest, it is said that there are good systems to capture exactly this part of the expenditure. In the case of medics, physiotherapists and psychologists, it is the case that the individual patient pays his or her share, which in most cases will be the highest proportion. But it's not good enough systems to capture that this would have been required reimbursement from other countries. That's why I'm saying that I want to follow up on the work further, because here this has to be put into many computer systems that engineers and processors use, in order to get a better system that also captures this part.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1400	Does the Council have any overview of Norway’s contribution to other EEA countries for Norwegian citizens treated in the EEA territory?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1405	I'll be able to generate that number, but I haven't actually brought that with me today, because it wasn't part of the question either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1414	This question, from the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1417	The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice: ‘The EU is currently working on several Initiatives on Smart Borders, which in total will contribute to safer borders and less crime. By making greater use of modern technological solutions, it shall at the same time be ensured that Europe remains accessible to travellers. What initiatives has the government taken to ensure that Norway’s challenges with cross-border crime are met in the ongoing EU work on safer borders and better control of illegal immigrants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1426	The government has taken a number of initiatives to strengthen the police and the customs authority's fight against cross-border crime, and I'm going to try to take some of them now. Let me therefore start by mentioning that the recent agreement between the Danish Government, the Danish People's Party and the Christian Democrats to escalate the control work of customs authorities at border crossing points, just refers to the Norwegian experience of cooperation between police and customs in border areas. I would like to mention some of the main measures the government has taken before the ongoing work on safer borders and better control of illegal immigration. Police action to combat illegal immigration in the territory was reinforced in 2010 by a separate package of measures that continued in 2011 – otherwise broadly supported here in Stortinget. The action package includes, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. strengthening Eastfold police districts with 28 year-old works to implement increased control in border areas and to increase efforts to combat trafficking in human beings and human beings, strengthening Eastfold and Rome-rich police districts, establishing the National Identity and Documentation Centre, which was established in the autumn of 2010; Furthermore, I would like to point out the great effort made by the customs authority at our internal borders, including: to Sweden, to stop and detect attempts to smuggle. From 1 January 2010, the Ministry of Justice has also provided specific guidelines for cooperation between customs and police, including: for situations where attempts to cross-border illegal immigration are detected under customs control. So I'd like to say something about measures related to control at our external borders, that is. towards non-Schengen countries. The Ministry of Justice has commissioned the Directorate of Police to prepare the purchase and deployment of equipment for the electronic reading and checking of travel documents, including a number of border inspection boxes known as eGtates, which will serve Norwegian and other EU/Schengen citizens at first entry and exit. With this in mind, Norway is following developments in the EU/Schengen and the world in order to ensure safer and more cost-effective border control, anchored in global standards for electronic travel documents. During the autumn, Norway will have the first part of the so-called Visa Information System, VIS, as part of the EU/Schengen Joint System for the Control of Visa Holders. We meet in the so-called Mixed Committee of the Brussels Council and have taken an active part in the process of both VIS and other registers, such as the Schengen Information System. Once completed, the VIS will mean that all visa holders will be checked on entry into all EU/Schengen countries. I would also like to point out, for so long, that we have joined the EU Council Decision establishing a common system for the control of entry and exit into the Schengen area, the so-called ‘entry/exit’, and the EUROSUR, a common system for monitoring the Schengen borders to the east, as well as all maritime borders. We are very active both in the civil service and in the political development of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1457	Very many of the measures listed are excellent. The question now focused more specifically on what initiatives we have taken towards the EU. I'm sure the Council of State can elaborate on that, as he didn't get it in his first answer. Since the Council of State was involved in Denmark's situation, I would also ask the Council of State to say a little about how he considers a more ordinary border control. It may have two effects, namely that Denmark becomes a buffer and decreases some of the pressure on Norway, but it may also mean that trafficking routes are being diverted and that countries that do not have such control can get into a free-port problem. Which of these effects does the Council of State think will be strongest?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1464	This is a comprehensive question, but I'll try to answer some of it. It is an important issue that is addressed, and it can help to clarify what the Danes are actually doing. As I see the comparison between the government in Denmark and the political parties mentioned in my main reply, it is very much about reinforced customs control. To the extent that it challenges the freedoms protected by the Schengen Regulation, the Danes are given the answer. But it's interesting to just point out that you want, first of all, enhanced customs control and, secondly, better cooperation between customs and police, as you just do in Norway. I believe that this is absolutely essential, because we do not look at those who come to Svinesund, whether they should commit criminal acts in Norway. We are totally dependent on the police being able to use many kinds of methods to prevent this. Then I am of the opinion, when you ask what initiative the Norwegian authorities have taken, that there are a number of initiatives, including: towards the VIS Regulation, but also the CIS, which is essential for Norway to participate in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1473	I thank you for the answer, but I think I have to point out the question regarding the new Danish border regime, another point: does the Council of State consider it to be an advantage if we can assume that there is an increased risk of detection of illegal goods carried over the land to Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1478	The answer is obviously yes. I have to say that it would have been important if we got the debate in the right track, which I actually believe the questioner contributes to, because in my opinion – as I read the Danish proposal – it is a rather classic reinforced customs control, while at the same time looking at the possibilities the police have to enter where there is a cause for suspicion of criminal offences. That's what we've been doing in Eastfold, we've been doing with it for years, but we've decided to strengthen it, so you have a device that can enter when you're suspected of smuggling human beings, and when you're suspected of smuggling drugs or other types of criminal behaviour. It is clear, however, that the more Schengen co-operation Member States, the more they guard their internal borders in relation to, among other things. the completely legitimate and legal customs controls, the less crime and less burdens are imposed on countries in the peripheral zones, including Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1487	‘Many organisations receive state support even if they counter the government’s policies, including the Left Party. In Dagbladet on 5 May 2011, several employees’ contributions from the Workers’ Party stated that the PRO Centre should lose its State aid precisely because they are countering the government’s policy. Do the State Council agree with the Workers' Party's representatives that the PRO Centre, and logically a number of other organisations, will lose their State aid because they are perceived as working towards government policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1494	Without considering what has been stated by the respective representatives of big business, I can only answer quite clearly that I am not a member of a policy that helps neither non-governmental organisations nor others to lose the support of the public because one is foreshadowing a policy that should happen to be different from that of the government. I think that would get us on the wrong roads. The PRO Center is Oslo Municipality's relief measures for women and men in prostitution. The Centre shall carry out work with individuals and conduct outreach activities in the prostitution environments. Furthermore, the Centre provides a health service, operates a heating room and implements labour market measures. In my opinion, we need all the humanity and warmth we can mobilise to help the girls who are exposed to prostitution trafficking. In 1993, then Social Minister Grete Knudsen decided that the PRO Centre should also play the role of National Centre of Competence. This implies a responsibility, inter alia: for nationwide knowledge dissemination on prostitution, including causes and adverse effects. I think it's more important than ever that we just get this, in order to make the right political decisions. In addition, the PRO Centre shall conduct policy-making and initiate prostitution research. The PRO Centre is therefore an enterprise that works on the basis of the state municipal plans that exist around prostitution. On 10 February this year, for example, Oslo City Council adopted an action plan against prostitution setting the framework for the municipal activities of the PRO Centre. The State grant to the PRO Centre is mainly given under the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and shall be seen in the context of the Government's action plan against trafficking in human beings, where the Ministry of Justice has a primary responsibility. I know the PRO Center as a very important actor and partner, and so far also as a pre-missive in the debate on prostitution, and as an intriguing and unfair speaker for the interests of people in prostitution. For the sake of order, I have to inform you that in my time at Stortinget in 2001-2005 I was engaged as legal adviser – without payment, otherwise – at the PRO Center, especially to the girls who needed legal advice most. In my opinion, in recent years the Centre has made an invaluable effort to provide help to foreign women who have been in extreme situations such as prostitution in Norway. The women have been totally dependent on someone offering help and pointing out ways out of the grip of traffickers and pimps. It is the government's policy to fully assist the potential victims of human trafficking, and a heavy responsibility has rested on the PRO Center, a responsibility it has fully lived up to. The PRO Centre has provided necessary and good services, it works intensively to help individuals see and find realistic alternatives to prostitution. Someone has to watch this and stand up for people in prostitution and victims of human trafficking. The PRO Center has, in my opinion, done that. I therefore do not understand that there are circumstances that can justify a reduction in the State aid to the PRO Centre. As a centre of expertise in this area, I expect the Centre to express criticism if they believe that government policy in this area has adverse consequences for people in prostitution. We have to bear that, at least when we want to use the strictest coercive force that society can use, that is punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1511	I have to say that I am sincere – sincere – happy with the response of the Council of State, which I see as basically right in terms of support, but also look up to what important job the Centre is doing. I was also aware that the Minister of Justice has volunteered before he became the Council of State, and my question is: If the Council of State gets a good time, which I hope the Council of State will have one day, would the Council of State still have been willing to put up something extra with its legal competence for this particular group, the most outspoken ladies we have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1516	The question must be said to be a little out of hand in the matter of follow-up, but it must be left to the Council of State if he wants to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1519	I just have to say that I experienced this as some of it all, the most meaningful I could do in my career, before I, I kept saying, entangled myself into the Justice Department. Because there's a group of people who really need legal assistance, it's just this one. The distance between being right and being right is very great, and the distance between the political debates that we often have around this kind of social poverty and the political solutions that are being falsified is very great. So at a time when you might want to solve most of it by building more prisons and getting more policemen and more penitentiaries, I think it's all the more important that we have measures that can contribute socially to lifting people who are struggling, but not least have a critical voice, sail if we who are in power do not always agree with those who are involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1524	I'll get more into the point, President. I believe that when you say you're going to have a centre of expertise, it's almost a little unethical to demand that that centre of expertise just be loyal. I believe that the Council of State does not share the view of the Workers' Party that, as a centre of competence, one should be careful and balanced before spreading one's competence, because it can tease the rulers. So my question goes on – and I think the Council of State agrees with me – whether it won't be for any centre of expertise to act unethical if you don't tell me about the competence you actually have, and the knowledge you have about the political field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1529	Don't let there be any doubt as to what I mean: Why do you establish a centre of expertise – isn't that to get knowledge, get more knowledge? And there's one field that's filled with myths and misunderstandings, and so far also some facts, that help us trace off when it comes to much of the debate, and that's exactly this field. So that's where we need both competence and the dissemination of competences – obviously. Then I am not sure if my colleagues in the Workers' Party are correctly quoted as regards what was written in the Newspaper – it gets other answers for it. I know that the headlines sometimes run wild. But the second thing I think is all the more important is that we need a public debate on this which requires us to tolerate the emergence of competence, but we also have to bear in mind that we disagree with the descriptions given. It's got it, for example. have been around the development of prostitution in Oslo, whether it goes up or down after various legal bans have been presented and implemented. That debate must be tolerated by both sides. That's what makes the result the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1536	We then go back to question 4, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the finance minister. The question will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1543	I will ask the Minister of Justice a question, and he will answer on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The question is: ‘The EU announced new Capital Requirement Directive, CRD IV, will have a major impact on the Norwegian financial industry and on Norwegian financial markets. What concrete input has the government made to the EU to promote Norwegian interests in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1552	The financial crisis has revealed significant weaknesses and shortcomings in financial market regulation and supervision in many countries. Maybe that was one of the main problems. Since the fall of 2008, global authorities have been actively working to mitigate the immediate effects of the crisis and with longer-term system changes. The most important processes globally take place under the auspices of the G20 and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has adopted new guidelines on stricter capital and liquidity requirements for banks, the Basel III standards, 16 December 2010. The EU Commission is working, to which the representative Sanner refers, with a third revision of the so-called capital requirements directives, in line with the Basel III recommendations. Financial supervision has assessed the impact of stricter quality requirements on the capital of the banks of the new Basel III Code and the corresponding future CRD IV Code as limited to Norwegian banks. In a press release on 13 September, the Financial Supervisory Authority stated: «Norwegian rules have always made strict demands on the quality of equity, and therefore the new rules will not pose significant challenges for Norwegian banks.» In the case of new requirements for the amount of own funds, we have among other things. provided the following information in the Financial Market Communication 2010, Report. St. 21 for 2010–2011, it says on p. 41 and 42, I spent the 17th May evening reading it; it was exciting: ‘The changes in the capital requirements resulting from the proposals of the Basel Committee and expected changes in EU rules are likely to lead to a small increase in the capital requirements of Norwegian banks of your Norwegian banks already well in line with Basel III requirements, as stated. Figure 3.3.’ The Norwegian authorities were early in introducing strict rules on capital and liquidity and over many years have stressed the need to have robust legislation covering all financial institutions and the entire financial market and contributing to sound financial soundness. As part of EEA cooperation, Norwegian authorities are represented in EU Commission working groups preparing new financial legislation. Norway also participates as an observer, with the right to speak, in the EU Banking Committee, The European Banking Committee. In line with this, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Ministry of Finance are represented in the EU Commission working group on draft CRD IV rules. It's a lot of work. We are actively involved in this work to safeguard Norwegian interests. Among other things, we have addressed the possibility of speeding up the introduction of the new requirements as well as improved host country control of the liquidity management of branches, as the financial crisis clearly demonstrated the need. There is a high level of involvement among all EU and EEA countries in this group and a broad consensus that EU soundness and liquidity rules need to be strengthened in the light of the financial crisis. I also point out that the Minister of Finance has briefed Stortinget on Norwegian participation in international regulatory development both in the 2010 and 2011 national budget and in the Financial Market Communication for 2009 and 2010. An important objective of the overall regulatory framework currently being worked on is both to increase and improve the quality of own funds in European banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1573	Now this is the finance minister's area, so I want to be a little bit more careful on the follow-up questions. I agree with the Council of State that supervision and capital adequacy are important issues in order to avoid crises similar to the financial crisis in the future and also to ensure good quality of the capital then included in the capital adequacy. As regards the impact of the new Directive on Norway and our financial industry, I note that the study by the Committee on Financial Crisis stated: ‘CRD IV will involve significantly higher minimum risk-weighted capital requirements than those resulting from applicable EU law.’; Furthermore, it will have ‘great significance for Norwegian legislation and Norwegian financial institutions’. So I just want to make sure that the Council of State and the Government also make sure to have good dialogue with the industry when assessing the consequences it could have for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1589	I am probably pretty sure that for EU law it will mean significantly more than that will mean for our own national law in this area. However, I am convinced that the Minister of Finance – and I should also take it with him – maintains the contact with financial market actors that the representative Sanner calls for. If you go to the Financial Market Communication – I just mentioned pages 41 and 42 – there is at least a description of how many Norwegian banks will be affected by the proposed thresholds set in the new legislation. If you add the new core capital requirement to 6 pst. In general, plus the new conservation buffer requirement, there are two banks in Norway that do not meet it. If you add – here’s the subject I don’t necessarily understand, but it says here – a maximum countercyclical buffer requirement of 2.5 pst., there are some more banks coming in, probably four–five banks, which, at least by the Ministry of Finance, indicates that these new rules will have no major consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1596	Let me just end by stressing that I share the idea that it is important to get this in place. One of the discussions that will come, and to which the Council of State also referred in its first answer, is whether to go faster. In the past, the Minister of Finance has announced that in this case, the Nordic countries will be involved in the merger because of a Norwegian monopoly, or that Norway alone is tightening the rules, could also have a negative competitive advantage for our financial industry. So it's just a final remark on my part to stress that this work also takes into account the competitiveness of our financial industry. We deserve our industry to compete both on its own market and on the more international market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1603	I can totally agree with that. In general – when we work on this type of directive case, and also cases against the EU – it is rare that alone is particularly profitable, both in terms of the kind of results we want and in terms of how the new rules that have to come work. This does not apply only to capital requirements. This is not least the case with regard to the question of deposit guarantee, where the efforts that I understand the Minister of Finance has shown both to the Commission, to the European Parliament and not least to our Nordic neighbours are absolutely crucial. It is certainly important that we can get more people on the team in such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1612	This question is also answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1615	I have a question for the Minister of Finance, which I understand is to be answered by the Minister of Justice: ‘The European Commission presented on 16 March a proposal on the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base. The proposal simplifies the tax rules for companies with activities in several EU countries, which are intended to amount to 2 billion. EUR in annual simplification savings. On the other hand, the proposal can be regarded as breaking the principle of subsidiarity and reducing the ability of Member States to pursue a desired fiscal policy. What is the position, and in what way has the Norwegian authorities exercised influence over the EU regulatory process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1624	The Ministry of Finance is well aware of the Commission’s proposals. The proposal is aimed at establishing common EU rules to calculate the tax base for individual companies and groups of companies operating in the EU. This may involve simplification, in particular for companies and groups operating in several EU countries. The tax base shall be established in one of the countries where the activity is established. The tax base will then be allocated among the EU countries involved according to a formula based on the country’s share of the labour input, capital and turnover of the business. The rules are optional, i.e. that taxpayers can continue to choose an equation according to national tax rules. The proposal concerns only the determination of the tax base, not the tax rates. Each country is free to tax its share of the estimated tax base at its national corporate tax rate. Directives or regulations in the field of taxation are not part of the EEA Agreement. A final Directive in this field is therefore not part of the EEA Agreement and is not to be implemented by Norway. However, Norway has followed the process of developing this Directive which has been in progress since 2001 and, like other developments in taxation, is well aware of the content of the new proposal for a directive. For Norway, a common EU tax base will primarily affect the taxation abroad of income earned in branches of Norwegian companies in EU countries. Such branches could be subject to the rules of the proposal. However, branch income can often be taxed in Norway, depending on the tax agreement with the EU country in question. In that case, Norway must deduct the tax paid abroad from the Norwegian tax. Indirectly, the Commission’s proposals can therefore have an impact on Norwegian tax revenue, but this also applies to all other types of tax changes abroad. The Ministry of Finance will follow this case further. It is worth noting that only a proposal from the Commission, which is the beginning of a political process in the EU, is currently available. It is a long way forward for a final directive – and not a simple one either – which may have to be adopted unanimously by the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1639	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. It's not his specialty, so I just want to make some comments. I understood the Council of States that it is not part of the EEA Agreement, so that Norway is not required to apply the Directive. It doesn't have to mean that we can't serve to approximate it, and at least closely follow the process. It is obvious, as the Council of State said, that there could be simplification and savings, and that when groups can start dealing with one code instead of 27 different codes, there are quite huge gains here. Norway, with such an outlying economy, should serve to follow the process very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1646	I fully agree with that, and I am sure the Minister for Finance fully agrees with that. First, you follow the process, but it's a little bit ahead. There's no argument for not following it, because what we often hear in these kinds of things is that you're coming in too late. You have to be there as early as possible. Thus, if one is not legally obliged to implement this, as is the case with other EEA acts, it is that the branch income and the determination of the tax on branch income will have an indirect impact on Norway. Because – as I said in my main post – this could mean that the amount of the deduction to calculate the Norwegian tax is going to be greater or less, and that is why it matters. This is what makes it important to follow this process – as the representative was also involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1651	Then I don't think I have any more follow-up than just saying that it's important that the process is followed. It is not the case that tax rates should be harmonised, but everything from depreciation rules to everything else included in the tax calculation should be harmonised. It is very important that Norway follows it closely and can take out the benefits that may come from it. But it's obvious that this is contrary to one's own ability to determine one's own tax policy. It is probably a rather complex matter to get through, including in the EU, so we should follow closely, and closely, with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1661	I just want to say very briefly that I agree with that. I think the representative has a point: this is a complicated Community enterprise. You don't discuss tax rates. So we're discussing the tax base, and we know that it can have more than enough problems to get nationally sewn together. So it gets exciting to see, to say it mildly. The second is that these are processes that I think it is very important to follow, not least in terms of future proceeds for us seas, but also in terms of what kind of nutrition legislation we get internationally. These are, as the representative pointed out, important instruments to ensure a greater level of non-discrimination and simplification, so that cross-border activities can be pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1666	The size now goes back to the original question list. Question 13 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1682	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1689	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘At the end of the 1970s, large parts of Hedmark were hit by carnage attacks on forests. This led to major damage and major economic losses. Similar developments have occurred elsewhere in Norway. Now there is a danger of the same destruction. How will the Council of State contribute to this not happening or to the minimisation of damage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1698	On behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes carries out an annual registration of the bark beetle populations in cooperation with the forestry authorities in 12 counties. The cars are caught in traps with pheromondisers as bait, as it has been since 1979. The catch results are an important basis for assessing the risk of attack on the forest in the coming years and for increasing knowledge of what determines the variability of the fleets. Injuries from the neighboring car tend to occur after storm traps, or after years when there has been unusually hot during the swarming of the summer. Following an increase in the level of freight ticketing over several years, monitoring for 2010 shows a continuous decline for the whole country. This can probably be explained by the fact that last year was wetter and cooler than in previous years. Hedmark stands out as the only state with an increase in the cortex level. Air registrations show the presence of killed trees in several municipalities in this county. Warmer and longer summers can lead to the barking cars being able to multiply twice during the season. It rarely or never happens in Norway today. As a result of the notified climate change, this can become the rule in the future rather than the derogation in South and Middle Norway, as it is now in Denmark and beyond in Europe. The cars breed in wind-field trees, in timber remaining in the forest, and in logging waste with rough bark. Therefore, good forest hygiene is the most important countermeasure we can take against car attacks. It is also important, particularly on the lush soil, that the spruce does not remain very mature for too long. A faster rotation of the spruce populations may be necessary on the spot to prevent disasters of the spruce beetle. I believe that the applicable laws and regulations ensure good forest hygiene, and that the government's active forest policy requires us to make use of most of the splendour before it is degraded by carnage attacks. Regionally, the situation is closely monitored by the agricultural departments of the counties and the forestry authorities of the municipalities. Although forest hygiene is carried out in line with laws and regulations, large windfalls and heat, dry summers can quickly trigger the outbreak of bark beetles. The Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes has recently proposed the establishment of a national emergency plan to prepare for such a situation. As part of the climate adaptation of agriculture, I warn in the new Landfill Communication on Agriculture and Food Policy that LMD will take the initiative to coordinate contingency plans involving Norwegian forestry. Preparedness for insect infestation will be assessed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1713	I would like to thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good answer. The question of follow-up I thought I would be quiet, actually answered the Council of State – and it was this with emergency plans. That's what the state council says, that right now it doesn't look like there's going to be any major damage to the forest, maybe with the exception of Hedmark. Nevertheless, it is important to have a national emergency plan for how we meet this next time. Then I got such a response, so I thought it was good. I don't think this is a question that we're going to argue about, because we have common interests and common goals on this. I do not want money to necessarily be spent on this either. It is to inform the Council of State of the state it may be in some states in this respect, so that the Council of State is aware of it. Right now, Hedmark seems to be being hit. So I'm too satisfied with this answer. It's a lot of value that's at stake. State councils might say a little bit about it, because it could reduce the price of the property by 150 kroner to 300 kroner per year. m3.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1725	I fully agree with the representative of Bredvold in the issue, and that it is a major challenge if we get more attacks on the neighboring car, which we can imagine in the future with warmer climate and with higher temperatures. Then it is not least important that forestry itself follow up the law, that regulation, that goes on good forest hygiene, to take out and chop wood early, and avoid that dead trees are in the woods, and that we thus get a greater chance of attack. The contingency plans that are being worked on are an important measure, and I agree with the representative of Bredvold. That's why we've also been working on it now. It is clear that there is a lot to do here, but of course, the assumption is that there is still good cooperation between the authorities and the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1732	I thank you once again for your answer. It's clear that there's a lot more to do. Now I don't know how far you've come to research on these kinds of beetles and other insects that can damage both the forest and the land where the forest is standing, so I hope the Council will take this question further into its work – I think the Council of State will do that, I have faith in that – and that this with a contingency plan will also come with as much as possible. Right now there are bark beetles we're talking about, but there may also be other pests that can come and damage the forest and what else grows and grows in the forest. It's not just trees we're talking about, but it can also be humus, for example, and how it's also affected by this. But, as I said, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and have the greatest confidence that this is going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1741	I shall not say so much more than that we shall follow up, as mentioned in my first answer. I am committed to seeing the cooperation between the forest owner and his responsibilities and the public administration and its responsibilities through legislation and regulations, and not least – of course – so that one plans well to avoid such unfortunate outcomes that can bring warmer climates and higher temperatures, and the challenges we then face in the forest, which one has elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1750	There is a question for the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church: ‘Acquisition legislation of the EU has its own sanctions provisions. Those penalty provisions shall be implemented in Norwegian law on 1 January 2012. Unlawful direct acquisitions shall be sanctioned by the cancellation of a contract under that law and shall be a body of appeal. Can the Council of State explain how this is to be done in Norway and will the Norwegian complaint body, KOFA, be allowed to cancel contracts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1759	A new directive on the enforcement of public acquisitions was adopted in the EU in December 2007. The purpose of the new Directive is to make it easier for suppliers who have not entered into competition to secure their rights before the conclusion of public contracts. These rules focus in particular on the enforcement of illegal direct acquisitions, which are considered to be particularly serious infringements of the law. The new Directive introduces several penalties, including: the penalty ‘ineffective’. This penalty means that, following a contract concluded, obligations shall be cancelled if the contracting entity has committed serious infringements of the law. The Directive entrusts the national legislature with deciding whether the penalties provided for by the Directive are to be imposed by an administrative appeal body or by the courts. The implementation of the Directive raises a number of issues not only in the area of procurement but also in the area of compensation and contract law. At kgl. The Resolution of 19 December 2008 therefore appointed a public body to investigate and recommend how the new Enforcement Directive was to be implemented in Norwegian law. The committee delivered its suspension, NOU 2010:2 Enforcement of public acquisitions, in April last year. The committee was divided into a view on whether the new sanctions should be added to the courts or to the KOFA. The attitude has now been at the hearing, and we have received 108 hearings. The Hearing Officers are also divided into views on this issue. This shows that there is an important and difficult question of whether the new sanctions should be imposed on the courts or an administrative appeal body. In particular, the new ineffectiveness penalty is invasive, both for the contracting entity and for the contracting entity's co-contractor. One must therefore ensure that sufficient procedural rules and guarantees of legal certainty are present in the body with the new competence. The enforcement body must also be in a position to deal with temporary increases on an ongoing basis. I will come back to Stortinget in a legislative proposal proposing how the directive should be implemented in Norwegian law, including how the enforcement system should be organised in the future. The debate on the new sanctions is to be added to the courts or to an administrative appeal body, we have to take it when the proposition is presented. Due to delays on the EU side, the new Enforcement Directive has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. I will return to Stortinget with the proposition as soon as possible after the directive has been adopted in the EEA Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1774	I thank you for your answer. I see that it is a complicated situation to decide how to enforce this. I understand that the Council of State has not yet taken a position on this, but that the results of the hearing are likely to be decisive. At least I interpret it that way. I could like to ask for the last Council of States to say about delays on the EU side: will this also help us to delay implementation here, not as a result of our own process, but as a result of the EU process?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1781	We expected the matter to be raised in the EEA Committee now on 19 or 20 May, but it has not been notified from the EU side. We have expectations that the matter will come up on 1 July, and then we are ready to make a proposition for the Storting quite soon after having had the matter through the EEA Committee. If that timetable were to be kept by the EU, there would be no need for any further postponement by us. But we depend on the matter being within the EEA Committee before presenting a case to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1786	This is a matter that is very important for Norwegian business, perhaps especially for those a little smaller players who do not have the strength and resources to take the fights to take. That's why we're dependent on this being implemented within the time set. I see that the mandate to some extent depends on what is going on elsewhere. But is the Council of States trying to influence the EEA Committee and the bodies that are there, so that there are no delays – so that we also exercise pressure and not just sit and wait for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1793	I can assure the representative Fleet that we are exerting pressure on the European Union to bring the matter up for proper treatment. And as soon as the matter has passed through the formal EU bodies and EEA bodies, we will make a proposition for the Storting. I can promise the fleet that we will do so without undue delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1809	This question has been withdrawn. Question 18 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1818	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The cooperation on the electricity certificate market with Sweden requires Norway to implement Directive 2009/28/EC, the Renewable Directive. The government has long been aware that the Directive is EEA-relevant but has not yet concluded negotiations with the EU on what is Norway’s obligation on these issues. When can we expect an agreement to be in place and can investors of renewable projects be guaranteed by the Council of State that the electricity certificate market is actually established as planned on 1 January 2012?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1827	It is true that cooperation with Sweden requires Norway to implement the EU renewable directive. However, our particular situation with a significantly higher renewable share than other countries means that the Directive will not have equivalent effects on the reduction of fossil-based energy production in Norway than in the EU. We have always been concerned with the progress of the work on the renewables directive. We share the EU's ambitions for renewable energy, and we are committed to increasing our renewable share beyond the level in 2005. It is important to find a balanced solution between the requirements of the Directive and the specific situation of Norway. As soon as we have an agreement on Norwegian adaptations to the Commission, draft EEA Decision could be examined in the EU and then the EEA Committee could take decisions. However, I would like to stress that this is not just about finishing the negotiations as soon as possible. It is very important that we achieve negotiated solutions that also reflect Norway’s particular energy situation. I therefore also place great emphasis on achieving the best possible result for Norway in the negotiations with the Commission. I am aware that we have a demanding race ahead of us, but I feel secure, which I have also communicated externally on several occasions, that we have an EEA decision in place in good time before the start of the certificate market with Sweden on 1 December 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1840	I thank the Council of State for the answer. From the right we are committed to getting a good solution in place, but at the same time we feel a legitimate impatience in relation to the fact that the agreement should have been in place when we look at the time that the Norwegian authorities have spent, in relation to both starting the negotiations and running the process. It is clear that the EU will now also be aware that Norway is in a short time when it is actually going to port. I do not know what the Council of State thinks about achieving a good outcome in the negotiations when the EU is very aware that Norway is dependent on reaching an agreement before the electricity licence market actually enters into force, and whether Norway has thereby weakened its negotiating position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1845	To take the last one first: No, I don't feel that we have weakened our negotiating position. I also think it is important for the government in any negotiating situation with the EU to defend what is Norwegian interest, so that directives to be implemented are made in a sensible and good way, which I also know that the Right Party is concerned about, not least in relation to the issue that comes immediately after this. So I believe that we have also communicated very clearly that it is important for the government to get into port with this in time for us to implement the decision and be able to put in place the common electricity certificate market as planned on 1 January 2012. We're now using time as well and as efficiently as we can to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1852	Having a long-term perspective, predictability, for the large investments that will be in the renewable energy sector, is crucial for investors to actually get on the road. And the uncertainty the government itself has created on at least three occasions – in the change made in relation to the biodiesel tax, the change made in relation to the promise of transitional arrangements on the electricity licence market, and some also say that the Council of State creates some uncertainty about offshore wind ambitions – makes one more likely to become more vulnerable to the introduction of the electricity certificate market. So my question is again about the state council then can guarantee that the electricity certificate market is actually in place and will enter into force on 1 January 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1857	Yes, we have, as a clear goal, a clearly communicated target from my side and from the government, that we should have a common electricity certificate market with Sweden in place from 1 January 2012. That's what we're working to do now, and I also feel confident that it's going to happen. I agree with the need for long-term energy policy. There I believe the government has been long-term and predictable. We have now communicated that we want this common certificate market. We have reached an agreement with Sweden, and it will be a good and safe framework for the development of renewable electricity in Norway in the coming decade.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1869	‘The EU Ecodesign Framework Directive introduces common ecodesign requirements for energy-related products. The EU assumes a primary energy factor that effectively favours gas fuelled products over electricity fuelled products. What are the consequences of this Directive for Norwegian consumers and producers of products using direct electricity, and what has been done by the Council of State to make an impact on Norway’s view and specificity in EU legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1876	The Ecodesign Directive establishes a framework for setting ecodesign requirements for energy-related products. Requirements for individual product groups are laid down by the Commission in its own Regulations. Ecodesign requirements are being developed for a variety of products. Products to be placed on the market within the EU/EEA framework must comply with the requirements laid down. From the Norwegian side, the NVE has been entrusted with the follow-up to the Ecodesign Directive, including the follow-up to EU pre-work, implementation in Norway, information to the Norwegian market and supervision. The NVE takes into account Norwegian consumer interests, the energy system and industrial interests in its contact with the EU system. The NVE has also paid close attention to informing Norwegian stakeholder organisations and Norwegian producers about the opportunities to participate in and influence the various processes. The ecodesign regulations currently laid down do not use primary energy factors to calculate energy efficiency. In the future, requirements may arise for products where a primary energy factor is used, as the question arises. It may, in practical terms, favour products based on natural gas over products based on electricity. For example, in the summer of 2010, the Commission sent working papers on ecodesign requirements for hot water heaters to be consulted. The calculation methods were designed in such a way that the requirements for major electric hot water heaters were unreasonably high, while the requirements for gas-based processors were less stringent. Such requirements would be unfortunate for Norwegian consumers, as there are very many who do not have the ability to use energy carriers other than electricity. Such requirements could also be unfortunate for producers of electricity-based hot water heaters. Both the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy have addressed the Commission on the matter. In its consultation response to the Commission, the NVE indicated that the requirements of the working documents were not adapted to Norwegian circumstances and that the requirements could have adverse consequences in Norway. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has brought the matter before the Commission. At the meeting, the Commission made it clear that the proposal would be adjusted so that major electric hot water producers would continue to be available on the market. At the meeting of the Regulatory Committee on Ecodesign on 11 April this year, this was again stated by the Commission. NVE will follow further work on the Ecodesign Regulations closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1889	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I am pleased to hear that the department has been in contact with the Commission on this issue. I am also pleased to hear that the NVE is working against the Commission and its European federations in this area, because it is particularly important. What I am concerned about is that it must be crucial for Norway that the primary energy factor does not become an indicative norm, not only for hot water heaters, but also in other areas where there are regulations. In this respect, it must be important that the Council of State not only follows up on the problem of hot water treatment, which is central, not least because we have large producers of hot water heaters in Norway – it can be marginally heard, but for OSO it is certainly not – but also because in the future the primary energy factor does not favour gas over electricity, especially because we are paying for a renewable Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1898	I am very much in agreement with the representative on the issue. Of course, we are following this directive and this work broader than the work specifically done with hot water heaters. One perspective is, of course, that we have large producers; it is an important economic pathway in Norway. The second is that our energy system is not rigged to implement gas in households at the level of many other European countries. In this case, as in many other cases, it will be our job and our duty to ensure that regulations and requirements from the EU side are adapted to Norwegian conditions, in order to achieve a reasonable implementation. Then I will not guarantee from the Parliamentary Chair what is going to be the content of the EU directive in the future, in which case it would be very ambitious. But of course we will work according to the guidelines that I feel we are reasonably in agreement on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1905	It's quite obvious that the Council of State and I don't particularly disagree on what has to be the goal. Then the question is to what extent we are able to contribute to changing EU policies in this area, and a central argument for the Council of State towards the EU must be that this is not in the EU's interest either, that it is taking entirely other measures that the EU is committed to promoting, for example. The EU renewable directive, which will in the short term contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in many European countries by using gas rather than electricity, but in the long term it will be envisaged to maintain high greenhouse gas emissions where they should be reduced. These are good arguments that I hope the Council of State will take with him when he is in Brussels and argues for Norway's view on this. This is not least important because Norway has an ambition — and the Council of State has also stated that we have an ambition — to play a significant role in the production of renewable energy, including in a European perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1910	Once again, I agree fairly with the basic idea. We will continue to work in general according to the guidelines that I drew up here, both in this case and in the other cases. Then it is that I and the representative may disagree on Norway's form of association with the European Union, but agree reasonably that we should have an active policy where we are trying to influence as well as we can. Then I shall end by saying that, at my discretion, gas too will have to play a significant role in the solution to Europe's climate challenges. More gas and less coal use will be a significant step forward and a significant step forward towards meeting the climate challenges in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-18.ana.ud791e1917	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed. Case No. 3 has already been treated. Does any of the two representatives who are left in the Chamber request the floor before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
