ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e63	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Magnhild Eia, has taken the seat. The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e71	On behalf of the representatives Oskar J. Grimstad, Bård Hoksrud, Kenneth Svendsen, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I am delighted to propose to exempt the non-mineral fuel GTL from the mineral oil tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e90	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e101	First, I would like to stress the importance of Norway as a nation having clear objectives and strategies for our cooperation with south-east Europe. It is therefore important that the Storting be updated at regular intervals on how the government thinks of its commitment. It is an overall committee that joins this commitment at both political, economic and military level. The aim we all seek is to ensure peace, stability, democracy and economic growth. As it emerges from the case, there are actually two settings. Why don't I know, I haven't got an explanation for that, but I expect the majority will explain it. All the comments on which the Progress Party stands alone today are the original points made by the rapporteur. Ideally, it would have been nice if there had been a consensus in the committee on the comments, but it didn't. I hope, however, that the Foreign Minister will also read the minority comments, because if I should say so myself, it also contains the important ideas and thoughts of south-east Europe. I have my heart in the Balkans and my head in Norway – which I think is a good combination. One then gets a more balanced and nuanced love relationship with the country, the people and the contradictions that exist in the regions. This means that I also know the countries we are talking about, as well as that I have been involved in monitoring them through the Council of Europe. That is, we have followed the countries closely with regard to human rights, democracy and rule of law throughout the year. Maybe this is where the rest of the committee wouldn't follow the case rapporteur, because I'm not as positive about developments in south-east Europe as the rest of the committee. I understand and support, of course, that NATO and EU adaptations contribute to some stabilisation in the region, but it does little to help against the lack of democracy, human rights violations and the lack of legislation to uphold the rule of law. That is why I am very pleased that Norway is now increasingly strengthening civil society. There are often grassroots movements that can cause things from below. The belief in politicians in several countries is unfortunately falling rapidly, and then it is important that civil society is there not only to correct the existing but also to give hope to the inhabitants of the country. Maybe someone thinks I'm in crisis, and that's not the point at all. But I'm of the opinion that we're going to talk about countries we're going to cooperate with, we have to be realists. Where we've already made a difference, and where it's well visible, is in Serbia. Serbia plays a key role in the region, not only in terms of free and independent elections, but also in terms of economic development and stability. Until the financial crisis took place in Europe, Serbia had a good development, but unfortunately it may also look like this country is reaching a certain stagnation. It is therefore important that Norway continue its good and bilateral cooperation with Serbia. Serbia should play a much greater role as a stabiliser also in Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This should also be reflected in Norwegian cooperation with Serbia. Yesterday some of us had lunch with the Prime Minister of Kosovo, and the relationship with Serbia was far from uplifting, he said. But if Serbia wants to, one can once and for all put aside the Kosovo conflict, and much of the unrest there would have been solved. Serbia could also, if they had wanted to, put pressure on the political leadership of the Republic of Srpska in Bosnia-Herzegovina, so that a difficult crowd had also been disbanded there. Here I think Serbia needs to understand how important they are, and it might help Norway to tell them. Other countries in the region are much worse off in the context of the economic crisis in Europe. In particular, it affects young people, which we see not only applies here, but also elsewhere in a more stable Europe. So when the majority points out that practical education through schools and colleges is important, it's true, but we can't set the same standard... – Excuse me, President, but I thought I had 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e120	We have been told that a speaking time of 5 minutes has been requested, but I do not see anything in the way to change it to 15 minutes if that is the priority of the Advance Party. That'll give Woldseth the representative another 10 minutes. Maybe it could be a little bit low by 8 seconds for the rest of the post?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e123	Yes! Thank you, President. It is not possible to set the same standards as in Norway when we know how the situation is with increasing poverty and unemployment in the region. It costs money to go to schools and colleges. When you train for leisure time, it's also a challenge. What incentive is it to be educated with debt and not to get a job? In some of these countries, you can buy a job, but then you are in debt to the employer for very many years to come – yes, it is. But it says that this means that the future of youth is uncertain. With an unemployment rate of 46 p.m. among young people. or more, these countries face a challenge. Maybe it's even harder to get a stable region, with so much free time. I've been talking to young people from several of the countries, and most of them want to get away from their home country to elsewhere in Europe. So they see no future in their own country. We must take this seriously, because young people without prospects and hope can quickly become a lost resource for their homelands forever. In several of the countries in the region, ethnicity is opposed, and it is therefore important, as the Communication also states, to give priority to projects dealing with reconciliation. The need for different ethnicities to have a national feeling must be something Norway can contribute to. Nothing is more destructive to a country than that ethnic groups are opposed to each other, and where this is the source of conflict, whether it is hidden or open. We have experience of how destructive ethnic conflicts can be in the region, and no one wants situations of this kind to awaken to life. Here again, I think civil society has a lot of useful and important to contribute through different projects, where you don't ask what kind of ethnicity you have, but accepts everyone. Although countries in the region appear to be functioning well, adapting to EU standards and progressing economically, there are still major internal challenges, ranging from corruption and trafficking in human beings to violations of human rights. This is part of the culture of some of these countries. Therefore, very strong lye is required for this to be done. Some countries have built up a good court system, while others bring ‘self-made’ judges to the court. It is not easy to run a business when the deposits arrive at the end of the day and are to have their share of your turnover because they are to protect you Minorities in some countries do not have the right to vote and, of course, do not have the right to be listed in elections. Other minorities are being persecuted and harassed. I've tried to draw a more nuanced picture of the region, because I've met many, including politicians, students, civil society, journalists or quite ordinary people. Some are satisfied, some are not. Some are afraid, and some are without hope. Some are indifferent, and some are enthusiastic. The picture is diverse — as diverse as there are ethnic groups in the region. Perhaps Norway, with its projects and assistance — I believe — can help to keep the region stable. Nevertheless, in conclusion, I have chosen to talk a little about a country and a people who are very close to my heart – that is Bosnia-Herzegovina. Bosnia-Herzegovina has been without Council of Ministers or Government for over one year. The country has politicians pushing the Dayton agreement in front of it in any context. It has the leaders of three ethnic groups who all behave as if they are the legitimate owners of the country, despite the fact that what people want is stability. It is a country where no politicians can agree, and where their lack of cooperation is so devastating for the country that you see an increasing number of extreme groups in all three ethnicities. Perhaps Norway, through its commitment, and not least our country's expertise in Bosnia-Herzegovina, can help someone sit around a table and talk. Maybe the Dayton agreement has expired, and maybe it's time someone helped the country to realize there's one nation. A Dayton II agreement may not seem so out of date! What is current is that there is actually a real danger of a new war, and we should avoid that at all costs. I trust that the Norwegian authorities will demand the assistance provided, and I believe that Norway can actually have a significant role – if Norway wants to. The people of Bosnia-Herzegovina need hope. This has helped Norway to get them before, and I think that success we should try again. Nothing is impossible – you just have to be patient. Maybe I'm naive, maybe I'm too negative, and maybe I don't see the forest for just trees. But to me, democracy, the rule of law and human rights are the most important things. Developing democratic states governed by laws and respecting and protecting human rights is the best guarantee of the stability of south-east Europe that will serve Norway's best interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e149	As announced, the next speaker is Peter Skovholt Gitmark, then the representative Svein Roald Hansen. Peter Skovholt Gitmark is registered with up to 5 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e152	It's nice that the President recognizes the Right Size this time, but we are, at least in relation to the election, considerably less than the Workers' Party also in this period. But if the president chooses, he's all-powerful! Let me start with a couple of overall driving forces for the whole region. There is no doubt that both NATO and EU membership has been extremely important for the positive development that the whole region is now seeing and has seen over a long period of time. It is true that EU membership, the possibility of being part of the European Community, has made processes faster, and that it has been easier to bring the population on to heavy, tough transitions, which have also meant more transparency, more democracy and a more transparent society. It's just positive. The same can be said in relation to NATO membership. Nor is there any doubt that the barriers that were just a short time ago, which also brought sparks, problems that were overshadowed by war on several occasions, have now increasingly disappeared thanks, among other things, to the disappearance of the barricades. also NATO membership. I am very pleased that there will be an article later from the representative of Werp, who will have a special focus on organised crime. That's why I'm skipping that theme, which unfortunately is far too driving for some of the negative trends you see at the same time. So I'll spend a few minutes on some of the most important countries in the region, and let me start with Serbia. Yesterday we had the pleasure of meeting the Prime Minister of Kosovo, Hashim Thaci, who tells of a difficult relationship with Serbia. Nevertheless, it must be said that Serbia has a good relationship with many of its neighbours, where Kosovo is probably the strongest exception in that way. President Tadic's re-election in 2008 was very encouraging for democracy and for the further democratic processes in Serbia. Even though he represents a centre-left party, he represents a liberal party, and he represents a party that wants further European integration. Once again, Serbia has come very far, and one of the major driving forces for Serbia has just been the possibility of becoming an EU member at a future date. We see again that the majority that Tadic was in second round, both when he was elected in 2004 and re-elected in 2008, was very small, and it was again the nationalist Nicolic who got very close to 50 pst. on both occasions. It shows the breakup that Serbia is in, but fortunately, in the last two elections, Serbia has chosen a clear candidate for further European integration. This means that we have to enter Kosovo, which is one of the areas of conflict that is once again creating great difficulties for the whole region, not only in the relationship of Serbia-Kosovo, but also for the region as such. During yesterday’s visit, there was once again a positive focus on how Norway can contribute, and not least on how Norwegian trade can contribute to increasing the economy in Kosovo. I see that one of the really big challenges of a small country that Kosovo, with less than 2 million inhabitants, has is how hugely difficult it is to create an economy with economic growth and get the population to work, and where it is actually more to serve in the legal economy than it is in the black – or illegal – economy. We are far from it today, and the democratic challenges in Kosovo are also significant. However, let me commend Thaci's government that it has managed to integrate also candidates from the other ethnic minorities into its government. It is a very positive development, while I would say that it is very negative that violence and other methods of repression have been used on several occasions in Kosovo elections. Macedonia is one of those countries that have experienced great democratic progress. One feature that I want to draw out in the end is that having two large parties that have normally exchanged power, and that have resulted in throwing out all the officials that the former ruling party has brought in, seems to be over. It is a major democratic advance that deserves support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e171	The president can assure the representative of Skovholt Gitmark that he is aware of the size of the parties in Stortinget, but we had not registered that there were any from the Workers' Party who asked for the word when Skovholt Gitmark was advertised, and the president gave the word to the person he announced as the next speaker. As the next speaker is advertised Svein Roald Hansen, and he gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e174	Then I can tell the representative of Skovholt Gitmark that it is about counting their joys, there are not sure there will be so many more. There is a greater consensus on the policy in this Communication than the scope of specific comments from the Progress Party can give the impression. I'll start there. There is cross-political support that the basis for Norwegian assistance must also be that Norway can actually contribute to making a difference, and that assistance is relevant and important for the Norwegian community as well. The different countries in the region have developed differently. Many challenges remain, both between some countries and internally in each country. However, overall, developments have been positive, as the rapporteur pointed out, but challenges remain. This overall positive development means that Norwegian aid can now be changed from peace and reconciliation to the establishment of a good governance, economic development and integration into European and Atlantic cooperation. Common to all countries is the desire for closer cooperation with Europe and, above all, through the EU and NATO. It is seen as important in countries themselves to have a safer framework for continued positive developments in democracy, economics and security. Albania is a member of NATO. Although there is no political agreement in Bosnia-Herzegovina to allow defence property to belong to the state level, there is also a widespread desire for a stronger link to the alliance. The recognition that such a link will contribute to the stability of the region goes beyond its own borders. Even in Serbia, which does not want NATO membership, but close cooperation, the authorities acknowledge that such an association for Bosnia and Herzegovina will be an advantage, even though an opinion poll this summer showed that the accession of any Serbian NATO membership is as low as 15 p.m. A closer Macedonian relationship with NATO is also desirable, but will depend on a solution to the name issue between Macedonia and Greece. With regard to the desire of countries to join EU cooperation, Croatian membership appears to be implemented as planned and is imminent. With such membership much of the basis of Norwegian involvement in the country also falls away. It is therefore natural that Norway should complete its remaining assistance activities in the country during that year. Serbia is, as both previous speakers also underlined, a key nation for development in this area. The country is having an exciting meeting. Many of the obstacles to an agreement with the EU have been overcome by the arrests and transfer of the two war criminals Mladic and Hadzic to the war criminal court in The Hague. However, the question of Kosovo remains far from being resolved. Kosovo is explicitly mentioned and integrated into the Serbian constitution. The popular resistance to changing this is great, and a constitutional change is hardly realistic in the foreseeable future. Norway has had close relations with the Balkan countries for a long time, especially with Serbia. The nearly 4,000 prisoners of war in North Norway during World War II provided the basis for a very special relationship between our two countries. History makes it easier to make targeted efforts in several areas, such as further development of administration and the basis for relations between government and parliament. The Norwegian National Audit Office plays a positive role in building up a control system in Serbia in line with international criteria. Control of government accounts, administrative audits, etc. Another important area of cooperation is contact between the Norwegian and Serbian parliaments on matters relating to guidelines for Parliament's control of the government. Cooperation at local level between KS and the Serbian counterpart contributes to strengthening local democracy. Another important area is economic development. Telenor's involvement in Serbia can be mentioned as a good example of that. Similarly, a number of other Norwegian enterprises are engaged in industrial development throughout the region. The focus on innovation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises is another important contribution. However, I would like to stress the warning issued by a majority of the Committee against unilateral investment in incubators in the setting-up of normal businesses. Subsidy of operating costs to enterprises operating in competition with other local enterprises is not necessarily the best use of the funds or the best contribution to industrial development. Another aspect of the Norwegian industrial exposure in the region is to make it clear to the partners that workers’ rights are expected to be guaranteed and zero tolerance for corruption is demonstrated. The outcome of the Serbian parliamentary elections for spring and the presidential elections in autumn 2012 will be important for the tension between Belgrade and Pristina. Bosnia-Herzegovina is a special structure in the European context. A third country based on ethnicity and religious belief must be regarded as a cross of thought in a Europe where development is otherwise based on integration and equivalency, regardless of its origin. At a conference in Brussels recently, the head of the Bosnian Social Democratic Party stated that Bosnia's constitution was designed to satisfy those who made it, not the people of the country. This view is indicative of the challenge. Without the anchoring of those responsible for managing such a demanding design, it is difficult to make it work. The system of the so-called High Representative, which oversees all political activities in Bosnia-Herzegovina, contributes greatly to weakening the basis of normal political activity. I am therefore pleased with the government's support for the liquidation of the High Representative's office. In Montenegro, the fight against organised crime and against corruption is high on the priority list. It's worth noting that ethnic conflicts, as we see it in Bosnia-Herzegovina, seem to have no place in the political everyday life of Montenegro. There is obvious reason to share the government's concerns about the development of Macedonia. The distrust between the Albanian-Madedon and the Slavic-Madedon population is increasing. So a small remark at last about the announcement of Moldova by the Progress Party, as one of the countries that should have been dealt with in the notification. It is, of course, always difficult to make boundaries, but historically the boundaries selected in the notification are natural. The emphasis is placed on the countries that constituted the old Yugoslavia and the countries in the region where Norway has had the strongest involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e230	South-Eastern Europe, and not least the Western Balkans, has long been a region of great challenges and many conflicts. The Christian People's Party has consistently worked towards Norway's strong commitment to contribute to peace, stability, democracy and economic growth in this conflict-filled region. Norway has contributed both political, economic and military support. Skewing Norwegian governments have concluded on such an engagement policy. The main lines have had broad political support. It has provided the necessary long-termity and stability of our policies towards this troubled region. Many years have passed since the tragic conflicts of the Balkans in the 1990s. Developments in the region as a whole must be considered positive. However, there are considerable variations between countries, as several speakers have noted. Unfortunately, many Balkan countries are affected by ethnic conflicts with roots far back. One of the highlights is Croatia. Since the dissolution of Yugoslavia, Croatia has evolved into a stable democracy. Serbia plays a key role in the region. The reform work there is on the right track, but much remains. The fight against corruption, the further development of democratic institutions and the development of control procedures are important areas in which Norway can contribute. Our contribution to building up the Serbian National Audit Office is a good example of this. The question of Kosovo is central. Good dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina will have a major impact on development — and of course also on Serbia’s relationship with wider European cooperation. The situation in Kosovo has been stable for some time, but we cannot ignore the fact that there are long-term negative trends. That is why we must also contribute to the further development of democratic institutions and to the safeguarding of the rights of the Serbian minority in the region. A key prerequisite for stabilising the countries of south-east Europe is to integrate them more closely into European cooperation. This applies in both the EU and NATO. The NATO Programme Partnership for Peace has been an important tool in this context. Many countries in the region see NATO membership as a good foundation for future security. That objective may also contribute to the completion of the necessary reforms within. Civil society is important for the countries of the region to achieve the necessary stability and development. Civil society can also contribute to reconciliation processes. This must be actively supported by Norway, not least because civil society can act as a corrigendum to the authorities. Several countries in the region are heavily plagued by corruption. Strict control of Norwegian funds used in the region must therefore be exercised. There is also a need to intensify the fight against organised crime. It has ramifications all over Europe and also affects our own country. We also have a self-interest in building up countries' capacity to combat cross-border crime. With regard to the development of the rule of law, many countries in the region still face major challenges. Reforms in the justice sector, the development of the public sector and the fight against corruption at all levels must therefore be priority tasks also in the coming years. Norway’s assistance must be accompanied by strict control and critical evaluations, including everywhere else. The National Audit Office has made a good contribution to this, including: by pointing out weaknesses in parts of the management model for assistance to the Western Balkans. It is good that the government has followed this criticism and improved the routines. The Christian People's Party shares the view that assistance to Albania, Montenegro and Croatia can be phased out gradually. Assistance to Serbia can also be stepped down over time. Kosovo, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the other hand, face longer-term development challenges, which require Norwegian support in the years to come. We welcome the broad agreement to give priority to Norwegian efforts in these three Balkan countries. The Christian People's Party assumes that there is a sufficient diplomatic presence on the part of Norway, including: in order to follow up the Norwegian efforts in these three countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e262	I would like to thank the Committee for a good attitude, and I can assure the representative of the Progress Party that the minority's comments have been read. I agree with other representatives who have said that there is a whole in this, and the representative, Højbrätten, that there has been a broad Norwegian consensus on the policy towards these countries over time, and that it stands. I think this is one of the examples where the broad consensus on foreign policy can actually be measured in how policies are implemented, because we have been able to implement long lines of project cooperation, we have focused on certain areas, and we have had good people among parliamentarians and diplomats in government who have had long-standing experience and networks. That's what I think we're playing a bigger role in this region than we would with our size and location otherwise. It is also interesting that this debate is taking place in parallel with a historic visit to Norway. It is the first visit to Norway by a Prime Minister from Kosovo, who will shortly sign a cooperation agreement with the Norwegian Prime Minister, and who will demonstrate that this cooperation also finds a more normal thread. Otherwise, when we evaluate the Arab Spring, which has now been harvested and is on its way into cold winter, some questions about how long this will take. Then it might be worth remembering that what is still on the Western Balkans is a aftermath of the collapse of the Soviet Union, the major changes in Europe and the dissolution of Yugoslavia. If the isolation of the 1990s is over – the iron carpet that separated neighbours, is gone, and the term ‘West Balkan’ may also be on its way to the parentheses – then with this message we have tried to show long-term developments that we will build on in our policies. I am pleased that the Committee has given broad support to these key actions. We have also tried after these years with experience to make a distinction between countries where it is natural to step down traditional development cooperation, and countries where we want to maintain it. I am also pleased that there has been an understanding within the committee. I think it's a good sign that we've been able to downgrade the use of money in this region. It shows that we can move resources to other areas. At the same time, the challenges — the communication is clear and open on it, and the comments are also built under it — from Slovenia, which is now integrated, to Croatia, which is on its way to the EU, and other remaining countries. This is high on the EU agenda. The Foreign Minister’s meetings now extend beyond December – the Foreign Minister’s meeting on 5 December and the Council meeting on 9 December – will take important decisions on positions on, among other things. Serbia and Kosovo. It shows, in my view, that the role of the EU in the Western Balkans may be one of the main issues of EU foreign policy, and in this area there are still very large tasks to be carried out. It is interesting to hear the Prime Minister of Kosovo mention the importance of a framework for the development of legislation in his country towards a European standard. During the dinner with Norwegian parliamentarians and diplomats yesterday, he underlined the difference between Kosovo and countries south of the Mediterranean that went through changes, because they did not have this template to compare with. The assistance in 2011 is approx. One half a billion dollars, and there's a total of one drop down that will also go on. I note the emphasis that the Committee stresses on where we should continue to bet in the future, and that is in terms of capacity building, the rule of law, the fight against corruption and this very, very serious development of international crime. Let me say that if there's one area where the message can't be clear enough, because we describe phenomena that we don't normally mention in government documents, it's the ring-effects of international crime and how it perverts almost all parts of the functioning of a society. One thing is what you can read from open sources, another thing is how the social systems work. This well reminds us of the importance of being on guard against it in our own country, but also in these countries that are now undergoing major changes. I agree with the Committee and the rapporteur that Bosnia-Herzegovina is in a special position with regard to concerns. The fact that Norway is going to take the initiative to create a new Dayton has not been the subject of the notification. The representative points to an important fact, that it was probably an agreement that ended the war but did not create peace, and that it is a standstill in political progress there that is alarming. Norway was inciting Bosnia-Herzegovina to obtain PfP status in NATO. It was a difficult discussion. Our view was that it was better to get the decision made, so that one could get started, but only when they had met standards in order to participate, rather than saying that they first met the standards before they could get inside. The reality is that they have come on the inside, but have not met the standards, and therefore this cooperation is quite silent. It is not our opinion that we are facing an immediate war hazard here, but it is nevertheless a very worrying situation. The representative of the Højbräten was concerned with the diplomatic presence. I can assure you that we are committed to having good capacity to follow all the countries, especially those we actively follow up. He may, then, also have the indirect aim that we now liquidate our embassy in Macedonia. We will do so in confidence that we have the capacity to follow up the portfolio we have in that country. Still, as far as I have brought on the clean, Norway is heavier represented in this region than our Nordic neighbouring country. I think we can manage to decorate ourselves in a way that makes us well cover the countries with one station smaller there. So, then, the development of the rule of law, the fight against corruption, the strengthening of independent control bodies, defence reform, defence cooperation and the stimulation of innovation and employment, the strengthening of civil society, are key issues, and the comprehensive theme is capacity building. I am pleased that this has been approved by the Committee. Finally, it is natural to mention the topic now being discussed in the EU, and also here in Oslo these days, namely the relationship between Serbia and Kosovo – one of the unresolved issues. I thought it was interesting to note that the Kosovian Prime Minister stressed that the solution over time lies in European and Atlantic integration. So it makes it possible to look at borders, not as barriers, but as something that can open up, where the European rights that both individuals and states get can build up many of the contradictions that lie there. It is a process Norway will support, even if we are not a member of the EU. The reality is that countries like Slovenia and Croatia have come to be close to us, because we are partners in the EEA, and that is how we will follow this development closely, also in close cooperation with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e289	I will follow up on a point where the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not present, namely with regard to Kosovo and the EU. There are five countries in the EU that have not recognised Kosovo as an independent country, and this blocks Kosovo’s further work towards the EU. I wonder if the Foreign Minister, by virtue of his position, could perhaps help to influence these countries that do not recognise Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e294	I appreciate the representative's assessment of the power in my position, and I can assure you that this is a topic we are actually discussing with the countries concerned. I note that in those countries this is in opposition to some rather sensitive political issues, which I do not think we should be surprised not necessarily related to Kosovo, but dealing with internal issues in those countries, and which address issues related to the integrity of the countries themselves and how they position themselves in relation to it. The question is then: is it possible, in spite of this, to draw up a development in which there will be no obstacle to Kosovo's integration? I think it would be harmful for Kosovo's neighbours and for Kosovo even if they were to be hung behind in European integration – for example. substantial relief is introduced for visas or other matters in relation to neighbouring countries while they are being followed. Norway can participate and make its voice heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e301	Then I have a question about Macedonia. As I said in my post, I am a member of the Monetary Committee of the Council of Europe, where Macedonia is being monitored. In recent times, there have been signs that there is some radicalisation in Macedonia. Oppositionals are arrested, media are laid down and NGOs are arrested and are not allowed to gather. I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs is sure that Norway has the necessary links to keep up to date, even if the embassy in Macedonia is now closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e308	Our ambition is that we should be able to follow developments closely even if we do not have an embassy there. We work closely with other countries that have diplomatic presence. This is geographically a small region, and it's not very difficult to follow from the outside. But it's clear that it's a bigger challenge when you don't have an embassy in the country, and we have to try to cover Macedonia as best we can from somewhere else. Otherwise, I agree that evolution there is alarming, and it is also further complicated because of the relationship between the name question and the relationship with Greece, which also slows down the integration that Macedonia should have. I believe that many of the challenges that Macedonia faces internally would bring about such integration, not only in relation to NATO, where very much is cleared up – the name issue remains – but also in relation to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e315	This is a good and good big message. But what gives little space there, and which is likely to be of great importance to the device of what is written and said, is the economic turmoil in Europe, which we can expect will also affect south-east Europe to perhaps greater extent than other parts of Europe. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs, just briefly in the context of a reply, identify what thoughts the Ministry has linked to what consequences this will have for the device, profile and resource use associated with the Storing Communication and our policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e322	This is an important question, because what we learned during the work on this message, which has been going on over several months, of course, is that the economic backbone has changed. I believe that those who follow developments closely consider that this part of Europe is particularly hard hit by the economic crisis that is coming. It is alarming to the extent that the political institutions depend on growth to allow for the distribution and improvement of the many unresolved societal tasks. So that's what I'm going to end up with. There is absolute cause for concern and the implementation of policy stabilising reforms in a situation of increasing unemployment and falling incomes is important. I think we have to insist that our aid work cannot generate growth alone, but we can try to support in the areas that underpin growth, among other things. cooperation with the EU, capacity building, knowledge, higher education – the areas that the Committee has also commented on in its notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e329	The Minister of Foreign Affairs was absolutely right. Behind what I said in my post, there was a wonder about the priority the government is doing when it chooses to drop the embassy in Skopje. This is of course within the government domain, but the Storting chooses from time to time to take a strong interest in where Norway is represented and how we are represented. Now, on Monday, we are expected to receive the verdict of the International Court of Justice in The Hague on this deplorable name question, which has blocked the further integration of Macedonia, both in NATO and in Europe as a whole. It can – given a positive outcome, from the point of view of Macedonia – unlock a situation and make Macedonia a far more exciting country compared to integration. Does this change the foreign minister's assessment of Norway's presence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e338	I welcome the interest of Stortinget in our representation outside – not from time to time, but all the time, I experience. It is a good debate, and it is an important and difficult debate. I can safely say that the telephones I have had to pick up from colleagues to inform them that we are leaving an embassy are among the least pleasant. There is never a nice message to be transmitted, because it can be interpreted as if the other country is less important. What I'm trying to say is that like everyone else, we need to prioritize our resources. We have been exemplary compared to others who have had to lay down much more drastically. It's more expensive to do foreign service, and we have to choose our places. Then the places where we believe that our diplomatic presence is not essential for us to be able to do what we want to achieve will be on the list first – states with which we do not have obvious problems. I hope there are solutions to the name question. I don't think the judgment in The Hague necessarily decides it alone. But here both Greece and Macedonia must show the will, with the support they also get from UN brokers and from other inputs, to find a solution to that question. Macedonia can also become an exciting place for Norwegian cooperation. But I don't think it's going to change the decision not to have an embassy there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e347	The Minister of Foreign Affairs' answer leads me to a follow-up question, because he now gives the impression that there are only economic reasons why Norway is shutting down its presence, at least in the form of an embassy, in Skopje. My question is: what is the size of the financial resources Norway saves in this decision, given that we have to deal with issues relating to the relationship between Norway and Macedonia, somewhere else? Is it that we have to set up a consulate-general? What is the net savings that we get from this on the state budget? If it's as small as I think, are there any other questions and other assessments behind this, other than the purely economic ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e354	We have over 100 foreign representations. They all cost from a few to quite a lot of millions. This is a pretty small station, but our total diplomatic presence in the Balkans is at my discretion so that we can operate follow-up much more reasonably from Belgrade, which we are now aiming for, than from a full station, with what it entails, even though it is small. So I want to say that the main thing here is economics. Practically, we could have wanted to be far more places if we had been able to pick from the top shelf. But I think it's also wise that we have a framework that makes us priority, and that sometimes we have to say that our relationship with a country, whether we have an embassy or not, is not an expression of how we value it. And then we're going to have to make a setup that makes it possible to follow up our projects. It's short distances, easy to travel, and it's good to get information. We are going to make savings that are noticeable in our budget, which we have to use in other areas that are of importance to Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e364	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e367	This is a good and important big message. It gives a good description of Norwegian policies in this area and gives a good description of developments in this region. That is why it is also important that there is a broad political consensus behind the notification. At the same time, it is also important to note that although it is described that overall development has been in the right direction in this region, there are shades and there are variations and denominations. We are entering a time of considerable economic uncertainty in Europe that is very likely to hit this region with greater weight than other parts of Europe. Therefore, it is important that we also focus in Norwegian policy on what we can do to contribute to what we see in positive development can be continued and continued. In that respect, it is important to keep the pressure up, especially in judicial cooperation. Focusing on state building, building up the judiciary and investing in a police force are the prerequisites for the development of society and the development of democracy, and it will prevent radicalisation. Organised crime and corruption are significant in this region. It eats up the state apparatus and democracy from within. That's why the Right is very pleased with the emphasis on judicial cooperation. It also matters to us here at home in Norway. The police can tell us that a large part of the crime committed in Norway has traces and roots of this region, so that it is prevention for Norwegian conditions that we keep the pressure on judicial cooperation with this region. Integration with Europe, which is also emphasised both by the Committee and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is an important prerequisite for dampening this development. Lifting the region together is an important objective, so that negative developments do not grow steadily in individual countries. That is why I am pleased with the broad connection this big message has received. It will be important to keep up with developments that are coming. Of course, from my point of view, as a member of the Justice Committee, I am particularly concerned about what is happening in the field of crime, in order to prevent organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e378	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e381	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate. It's not hard to hear that we agree. It is good to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs say that this is an overall attitude, so that minority comments are also read. I appreciate that. What I took the floor for is two things. One is when the Labour Party representative says that we do not disagree with the policy. It's not about that when we don't have common notes. But the idea struck me that maybe this setting reflects the situation in the region we're discussing. It's not going to come from the fact that this region is a troubled corner. Now it seems that there are going to be more worrying places, and there is still a lot that should be better in many of these countries. In the end, I also want to explain why I think it is strange that Moldova is not mentioned in the message. When you apply for any Internet search engine, Moldova belongs to south-east Europe. And not only that – Norway and Moldova have bilateral cooperation. Moldova is also a country with major challenges. Therefore, I think it could be in place that Moldova was also mentioned here, but I take note that you choose to leave that country outside. I would like to thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e392	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 952]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e408	The President has taken the view that the Foreign Affairs Committee is asking for a free debate instead of the original discussion. – The President considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e413	President! Does it mean 30 minutes post?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e418	Yeah, that's right. When there's a free debate, it means 30 minutes – but it means up to 30 minutes. The first speaker is the representative Eva Kristin Hansen, who will have the floor on behalf of the case rapporteur, Laila Gustavsen, who is absent. The next speaker is Dagfinn Højbråt.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e428	In the absence of the rapporteur, I would like to say a few words about what is a unanimous attitude of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. I can reassure the room that I have not intended to take 30 minutes – rather closer to 5 or 10 minutes. Norway has one of the world's most stringent legislations for the export of defence equipment. We should continue to have that, while also continuing to work towards a better common international legislation. The staging message that we are dealing with in today's vote sets out the scope of exports of defence equipment, information on Norwegian legislation, its practice and the international framework. The total value of exports in 2010 was above 3 9 billion. NOK 3,7 billion. kr represented the sale. Of these, exports of A-material amount to 2.6 billion. kr and B material in excess of 1 billion. kr. Compared to the value of exports in 2009, there was a decrease in exports of defence equipment of about 18 p.m. in 2010 according to the notification. Of the total exports, approx. 94 pst. of the A-material and 88 pst. by the B-material to NATO countries, Sweden and Finland. It is important to stress that the defence industry in Norway contributes to a significant value creation in the country, including in the development of civil technology. The Committee is therefore committed to ensuring a predictable framework for industry, including in relation to foreign competitors. In this way, we will contribute to good technology base, maintain skills and develop jobs in Norway. The Committee welcomes the work carried out in recent years to ensure maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment from Norway. The Committee considers that increased transparency and information have contributed to greater transparency and societal debate on the export of defence equipment. There's been some debate about the topic in the media, and that's what it should be, it's just healthy. The Committee has also carried out consultations in the context of the Communication, the many different views expressed. It is an overall committee that emphasises that strict regulation, transparency of exports and democratic debate through the bigotry communication contribute to greater transparency and ensure the legitimacy of Norwegian exports of defence material. Viewed in the light of the Arab Spring and the fact that it was sold B-material to, among other things. Libya in 2010, requests a Joint Committee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to: ‘an assessment in the next year’s notification on exports of defence equipment, on the robustness of risk assessments and on the strictness of practices in exports to authoritarian regimes, regimes which by definition may become unstable and where there is a risk that the equipment may be used for internal repression or human rights violations’. This will be a further clarification of an already strict regulatory framework. I note that the Left, which does not have a member of the Committee, has today presented a proposal that deals with much of the same. After my assessment, through the comment I just quoted, that proposal has been taken care of. The Committee also expresses its support for Norway's work in international forums to improve control of conventional weapons, in particular small arms and light weapons with their ammunition. International agreement on a common and binding regime for labelling and tracing is, in our view, very important in the light of the humanitarian suffering caused by the use of small arms. On that occasion, I want to show that only Nammo Raufoss AS is producing ammunition in Norway and that they already have a labelling and tracking system that means that all ammunition produced is labelled and that all deliveries from the group can be traced. It is also important to stress that industry itself is in favour of an internationally common and binding labelling and tracing regime. Many countries are today restrictive in terms of transparency in their defence exports. This makes it particularly important that Norway plays with open cards and that we contribute internationally. The handling of the annual notifications by size is such a reason and has shown cross-political relaxation both in the practice of the export control legislation and in the degree of transparency granted in the export of defence material. All in all, we can sum up that Norway is a leading country internationally around openness and that the control of Norwegian exports is good. The challenge ahead is to develop common, restrictive international rules on the sale of weapons and technology, as well as to establish an internationally binding instrument for the marking and tracing of small arms and ammunition. I know that the government has – and still wants – an international driving role in these issues. Finally, I am pleased that there is broad consensus in such an important political matter. I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee that is presenting an overall position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e463	Then the next speaker was the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten, who was advertised, and then the representative Bård Vegar Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e466	It's almost Christmas, and I understand that the president is handing out small joys to parties that really don't deserve to be so high on the list of speakers. We are happy to accept that!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e471	The President shall give them the floor which has asked for it. When a next speaker is advertised, the speaker gets the word even if a speaker from a larger party would later sign up on the list of speakers. That practice will be followed whether it is Christmas or not!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e474	It sounds good, President, and it'll make you happy whether it's Christmas or not! The Christian People's Party is satisfied not only with this, but even more so that it has gradually become a better regulation, a greater transparency and better reporting routine for the Stortinget in the area we are now debating. But we can further improve the regulation and practice, and that Christian People's Party would like to be involved and contribute to it. That is why we are pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to: ‘enhancing transparency and asking for an assessment of the status in this area to be included in the next message’. It was particularly important for the Christian People's Party that the Committee now asks for an evaluation in next year's notification of: ‘risk assessments are robust enough and practices are strict enough in terms of exports to authoritarian regimes, regimes which by definition may become unstable and where there is a risk that the equipment may be used for internal repression or human rights violations. In this assessment, the Committee calls for reference to other countries’ practices and their application by the EU Code of Conduct and Norway, with particular emphasis on the criterion of respect for human rights and international humanitarian law.’;» The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that Norway's practice has not been strict enough in terms of regimes such as Libya, in particular, and to some extent also Saudi Arabia, which have actually been exported to recent years. Several consultative bodies that the Committee has visited, the Church's Emergency Aid, the Norwegian Peace Team, Changemaker and the Forum for Development and Environment, have expressed in their letter to the Committee that they fail to understand that the government first sold military equipment for regimes such as Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Libya, as it knew were – and are – oppressive and undemocratic, and then condemn these regimes to be oppressive and undemocratic, and that, in spite of this, the Foreign Minister still maintains that government policy is restrictive enough. In the light of the postwar clock, I find it difficult to disagree with such criticism. The Christian People’s Party believes that there is reason for the government to reconsider whether practices against undemocratic regimes and regimes that violate human rights are strict enough. Most people would probably believe that the export of military equipment to these countries in the Middle East and North Africa should be understood initially as contrary to the existing Norwegian legislation, including the human rights criterion in the common position of the EU, of which Norway is bound. It can therefore be argued that today's legislation is strict enough. But when we see what the actual practice has been, and when we see it in the later much clearer light, there is reason to question this. It is not certain that it is enough merely to point out that existing legislation should be interpreted more stringently. That is why I have many sympathy for the Left's proposals that have been presented here today, while I believe that the Committee's comments and the order for the government are far on the way up to what the Left is after, and that is how the Christian People's Party will deal with it. The question of the 1997 decision that the U.D. should consider issues relating to democracy and human rights should be replaced by a new decision expressing such an attitude, which I have expressed here, much more clearly, should be discussed in the next round. In that case, it would be a decision whereby the Stortinget clarifies that no weapons or other military equipment shall be exported to countries where there is a significant risk that this could be used for serious and systematic violations of human rights or for internal repression. It is also important to discuss whether the regime that we have practiced, with the support of changing governments, is robust enough to address situations like the one we just have behind us, where one year we export military equipment to a country that we participate next year in a comprehensive military action against. There should be a cross of thought for more than those who express it in the debate. The Christian People's Party first looks forward to the government's assessment of this. Then we get back to what it's going to do. There is a broad consensus that Norway must play a driving role internationally in the matter of marking and tracing weapons and ammunition, and go ahead with a good example. The Committee considers that Norway should continue to play a driving role internationally in these issues and work towards the establishment of internationally binding instruments for labelling and traceability. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government will work to improve marking and tracing mechanisms for Norwegian weapons and ammunition, and work for similar systems internationally. We know that an international consensus on a legally binding instrument for the labelling and tracing of arms and ammunition can limit the humanitarian suffering caused by the use of small arms. It's important to remember that's what we're actually talking about here, and that's why the involvement on a broad basis is so strong in relation to this. As Norway still does not require an end-user statement when selling weapons to allies, despite the government's commitment to this in Soria Moria II, we have no guarantee today that Norwegian weapons, ammunition and equipment will not end up with actors we do not want to use this equipment. Several of the hearing bodies in the Committee have expressed great impatience in relation to this process and the follow-up to the government's obligations in this regard. The government itself writes in the following message: ‘The aim of the government is to introduce end-user declarations from all countries and to work towards their becoming a norm in NATO.’ It might be interesting to hear a little bit more about how the Minister of Foreign Affairs views the government's progress towards this goal. The total value of Norwegian exports of weapons and other defence equipment in 2010 was 3.9 billion. kr. I guess that was 18 pst. less than one year earlier, but it is nevertheless evident that this industry contributes to significant value creation. Nothing of what has been said by us in this debate shall undermine, or, I say, minimize the importance of the Norwegian defence industry to the national state. It also contributes to the development of technologies of significant civil use. Norway is one of the world's largest arms exporters. The state owns, among others: 50 pst. by Nammo, one of the world’s major ammunition producers, and Nammo has factories in a number of countries other than Norway. Of course, we follow the export regulations in the countries where the factories are located. Unfortunately, several of these countries’ export legislation is not as strict as that of Norway, among others. practices the US, Finland and Germany exports of weapons and ammunition to the Congo and Saudi Arabia, countries to which Norway does not sell arms because they are at war or threatened by war, or because of the human rights situation in these countries. Here, too, there is a challenge that we need to look at. The industry itself has pointed out that new and difficult problems arise when Norwegian producers also produce in other countries and co-production with producers in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e515	I think it's probably right to be out of touch with a smaller party that's already on the list of speakers. Not least since I read polls, I feel that it is in my interest to be too! So it's forgiven. Norway has a strict and good regime for controlling our arms exports in many ways. Improvements have also been made in the regime over the last few years, so that there are many areas of leadership, and there is also a good job of promoting Norwegian views in the field internationally in different forums. The year we've been through, however, is a reminder that there are important issues that can all of a sudden be about dramatic situations that one stands in the middle of the international. It is worth remembering that Norway has had a significant export of defence equipment to many countries in the Middle East, to Egypt, which is now suspended again, to Bahrain, which, as you know, had a rather dramatic situation before, and to countries that have not been involved yet, such as Saudi Arabia, which have extensive violations of human rights. It's also known, as mentioned in the setting, that we had a smaller hall for Libya. I think, perhaps, the most important lesson of this, which I also think is reflected in the vote, is that we need to take more into account how democracy and human rights are going to affect the Norwegian export control regime in the future, that it is necessary to widen the scope of that debate. If we think that the dimension of democracy and human rights should be at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy, it must also be as central here. It is worth remembering that the reason why it is important to have a strict arms export control regime is firstly that Norwegian weapons, or, for that matter, other weapons, should as little as possible go to supplies to countries that are at war with each other, but also that they should go as little as possible to the supply of weapons to regimes that use them against their own people, which is what we have experienced here. I am also very positive with the sentences, the order, quoted by the case officer in his post, which clearly informs us that we are going to go through this and the situation in relation to the authoritarian regime in connection with the next message. What I think is important is to meet with a slightly open mind, is whether it's the law one has to look at, or whether it's the practice we have to look at, or both. I think that will be an important question both when creating the message and for the committee in the next round. So there are a couple of questions that I would like to mention in connection with this, which in my view is necessary to look at. The second is then the question of labelling and tracking. I have noticed in my work on this message that there is quite different realism between the industry and organizations like the Church's Emergency Aid, Changemaker and the Norwegian Peace Pact when one goes into the technical questions. I would like to say that there is a broad consensus, and we see that Norway has a comprehensive system of labelling and tracking, but how it is done, and if one could do it even better, I thought it was necessary that we go into and discuss more closely in the light of what has come to light, and that it is also connected with the next message. It is also shown in the option. The third question I would like to address is the question of the declaration of end-users, which Norway has in relation to many countries. It is then stated in the government statements, Soria Moria II: ‘The aim of the Government is to introduce the end-user declaration of all countries and to work towards its becoming a norm in NATO.’ That work is necessary to follow up both through NATO's body, but it is also necessary to discuss more closely how we follow it as an own goal if the progress we have through NATO is not big enough. As I see it, I also see in the Foreign Minister's meeting his reply to the representative Højbräten, but not least the further discussion about it. Finally, I would just like to say that the most important thing we might have to do in the future is to debate – for ourselves and for other countries – in a completely different way, with regard to the way in which the dimension of democracy and human rights must prevail in the arms export regime of Norway, but also to other countries. When it comes to the proposal on the Left, I also have a great deal of sympathy for it, but I share the view of the representative, Højbråten, that that theme should be followed up even more closely in the context of the next communication, and that there are orders from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e542	Exporting weapons places great demands on us as a nation. It requires strict control and high standards. We're going to sell a product that we strictly do not want the buyers to use. What's important is also to have the same standards as possible, so it's very important that we now make proper agreements within NATO on retail declarations, that we have the same standards as those we're in defence business with. We believe that it is important to work for good rules, and that we are able to correct along the way. The representative called it the afterwatch. I'd rather call it experience, that we've now learned that some of the rules we had were not good enough. We take joint responsibility for that. I believe that the export to Libya was a small awakening that we are now facing other challenges in this area as well. We have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs about that particular case and were not really very reassured by the answer. We know that what we're exporting, among other things. went to the Khamis Brigade, one of the worst brigades right under the dictator in Libya. So we kind of have the fasitite. When the head of communications in the U.D. responds to an e-mail that one is aware that it was an elite brigade, but that it is crucial when exporting defence material that the defence power is the end-user of the material, I understand the formalistic, but it is also important that the U.D. understands what it actually implies that we actually export weapons to such a type of brigade. We have also learned that we have exported weapons to a country where we are sending our soldiers in to do a job. It was not the direct weapon we exported, it was computer equipment and equipment for light-emitting devices, but the path from a light-emitting device to night flight with Norwegian soldiers is not very long. It's an awakening when one sees a dictator using weapon material from Norway against his own population. So I think we should do what the other Western countries have done: treat this as a wake-up that leads us to have to look at our legislation. We see that countries like Sweden and the United Kingdom, which are among the world’s largest arms exporters, have entered and changed this. After the Arab Spring, both countries have tightened up relative to exports to repressive regimes. The United Kingdom has put in place requirements to make it easier to stop arms exports quickly if you see developments in a country. In Sweden, government parties and social democrats have now joined forces on a new code of war aimed at strengthening export control, especially to non-democratic states. I wish that in Norway we could also have a broad political agreement that what happened in Libya was an awakening for us, which means that we have to look at the decision. Because it does not just work with sympathy – we know that in politics – we need to have votes behind the proposals as well. I think the comment is too weak. It's just asking for an assessment. We do not feel very comfortable with these assessments when we have seen the answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to questions from the Left Group. We want a separate issue on strengthening the export control. This means that we need to look at both the enforcement of the legislation and the legislation. The goal is that we have to see if we can prevent exports to authoritarian regimes that can use weapons against their own people, and where, in the worst case, it can end, as it could have ended with Libya, that we feel that Norwegian weapons are being used against Norwegian soldiers fighting and doing a job that they have been put to complete by international authorities. We have to make sure that doesn't happen again, and we have to be able to learn from that without anyone losing face. I take up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e566	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred and which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e569	I don't think anyone in this room disagrees with either the representatives of Bård Vegar Solhjell or Trine Skei Grande. But on the other hand, I think this is a matter that all parties are quite well aware of, and that the rapporteur has stated in an excellent way, that all the considerations that should and must be taken are taken. I think it will hardly serve the case that we leave the impression that this is the dominant activity around Norwegian arms exports. 94 pst. of A-material goes to our allies, plus Sweden and Finland, and 88 pst. of the B-material. If we are to achieve results in these areas, we need to work as referred to in the report mentioned in the government's communication, namely through international channels. That's where we have to focus our attention. If not, there will be some kind of customary isolation, which can certainly cause the percentage of exports from Norway to decline, but it has not been said that it will solve a single problem in previous conflicts or conflicts that will be guaranteed to reoccur. When I asked to speak, it was originally meant to be a reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but since the Minister for Foreign Affairs has up to 30 minutes speaking time, I take it before his posts. Norway has joined an EU directive on simplifying requirements and conditions for supplies of defence equipment. This directive, to be implemented in mid-2012, i.e. next year, describes the conditions for trade between the EU and EEA countries, i.e. trade in defence equipment. The background to the Directive is to give the defence industry in the countries as much as possible a level playing field. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs – if it is appropriate for him to answer it – is whether this will contribute to some kind of worsening conditions for Norwegian industry. We are in a situation where industry in general has problems in Norway — if it is allowed to be concerned about it in such a case as this. Will the new directive being implemented in the middle of next year create some sort of change to the conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e580	I would also like to say here that it is of great importance that there is an overall committee – in this area that is of great importance along many different axes – which is behind the main comments. Let me first make some initial comments. The first thing I want to point out is that this is an important industry for Norway. I believe that this will be fixed in a sobering way in the setting and in the posts here. Norway has strict legislation on who can receive defence material. At the same time, it is an industry that will get the tougher in time, because reductions in defence budgets in countries with which we normally trade will probably make competition tougher and tougher. It's a challenge that business meets in many fields, but we also see it here. The government is concerned that the defence industry provides significant value creation, jobs, local communities and the development of civil technology. Therefore, it is important to ensure a predictable framework for this industry, also in relation to foreign competitors. I think it is a great story for Norway that we have been able to have the world's strictest legislation and at the same time a capable industry in this field. So in order to maintain such a defence industry and give it the opportunity to keep up with technological developments, it must therefore have framework conditions that enable us to participate in international projects on the development and production of materials. Long-termity and predictability become important here, and the fact that the industry itself has spoken to the Committee in its work on voting is positive. So to what's taken a lot of time here, the Arab Spring. I would also like to remind you that the percentage of Norwegian exports can be further pointed out by saying that, as far as I can see, 98 pst. of the A-material goes to Europe – then we have NATO allies, Sweden and Finland and someone who is not in that category, but still in Europe – and 96 pst. of the B-material. So the totally dominant part goes to this area. So the representative, Skei Grande – on the one hand a useful clarification – said that some of the things you sell here are not necessarily weapons. B-material isn't, but there are elements that can be included like this. At the same time, she later entered the post with a note that it was not necessary to get there that Norwegian weapons were used against Norwegian soldiers – understood in Libya. That situation could not arise, because Norwegian weapons have not been sold to Libya. But I don't need to extend that discussion any more than saying that it's very clear in the setting, and the government has taken full note that you want a review, or an assessment of whether a risk assessment is robust enough, whether practice is strict enough in terms of export to authoritarian regimes. We're taking this seriously. We're going to do a thorough work on it, and come back to the Storting next year. You could do a lot of reflections on it already right now. I'm going to be withholding it, because we're going to do this work thoroughly. I think a lot of other countries have a much deeper discussion – which has actually been – about the export of weapons on a large scale to these countries. So we haven't been there, but we're going to go into it thoroughly. Moreover, I think that how the defence force in a country to which we are exporting allocates what they import around in different defence sectors will be a very difficult exercise for Norwegian control authorities to assess. But, as I said, we're going to get into it thoroughly. With regard to the end-user declaration issue, we are concerned about it, and I would like to stress what the representative Skei Grande also said, that it is important for us that we have a goal of getting the same standards as our allies, especially because it is those who receive the bulk of our exports. Then the representative of the High Bank asked questions about how the work of getting a norm in NATO is going. The wording in Soria Moria II has underlined that we aim to introduce the end-user declaration of all countries and to work towards this becoming the norm in NATO. We're going to keep Stortinget informed about that work. The collection of information from NATO countries was carried out in 2010, as indicated by the call for proposals. The review shows that NATO countries mainly follow the same practices as Norway. Whether it is then possible to go to the step of introducing a norm is a work that is still going on, and we are considering different steps in that direction. That's why I don't want to figure out what we're doing if we don't succeed. But I think we should think very carefully about whether we put the Norwegian defence industry – which exports mainly to NATO countries – in a more difficult situation to export to the countries that are our allies, than other allies that export to allies. But that debate we're going to have, and the government is going to be interested in it. Then we are working to improve the labelling and tracking mechanisms for Norwegian weapons and ammunition. The starting point is good, and we'll also work, as it's briefed on, elsewhere for similar systems internationally. I would also like to say that it is the government's aim to show maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment within the framework of the obligation of professional secrecy imposed. There is a balance that we have been through for several years, and should continue to go, and we should continue to look at opportunities for greater transparency in export-related issues. So the representative Ivar Kristiansen asked the question about the EU directive, and the sub-title of the question was: Will that directive, and its implementation, put Norwegian industry in a more difficult situation? Well, the idea of the EEA Agreement is, of course, a level playing field, so that the directive in this area, among other things. It deals with the control of enterprises which have general licences, it will be that together with the other 29 countries in the EEA, we will have equal rules. So that would not initially put our industry in a more difficult situation. The Government has decided to implement a Directive aimed at a more simplified and predictable licensing regime within the EU and EEA territory. This Directive will be implemented by a regulatory amendment following a decision of the EEA Committee and will allow for the issue of general licences to Norwegian enterprises with a long duration for exports to certified enterprises within the EU/EEA area from 1 July next year. At the same time, Norwegian certified enterprises will be able to receive parts and components in the same way from enterprises in other countries. One would think that it could actually increase the possibility of trading. It is the national authority of the countries of dispatch which issues such a licence within the framework and export restrictions resulting from the national policies in force. In many ways, this policy is consistent. The use of a long-term general licence means that weight is moved from pre-check to post-check at the dispatching establishments. It requires detailed records in these establishments and requires regular monitoring by the national authority of the establishments and on-the-spot checks. We have to prepare for that. As part of ensuring control of export activities related to general licences, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will carry out regular dialogue and periodic reviews of the export activities of the companies. We have also established cooperation with Customs on the implementation of the control of exports of strategic goods, including through the use of customs auditors, to control the export activities of businesses, the physical control of goods or the control of relevant documents relating to the exports of enterprises. Finally, in this area, I would like to point out that infringements of the requirements and restrictions relating to general licences will be subject to the criminal provisions of the Export Control Act. We believe that this directive keeps us on a path of harmonisation with our closest trading partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e614	As part of a free debate, there is also an opportunity to ask for a reply – and that has been done by the representative of Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e617	Yeah, it's funny with free debate, sail if it's interesting to see how close 5 minutes we're all, when we get that opportunity. I want to first notice that there's a reason why it's called B matter. If it's not a direct weapon, there's a reason it's in that category. But the Council of State was very concerned with equal standards. Now we have seen that there has been an intensification in Sweden, and there has been a intensification in the United Kingdom – which is two large arms exporter countries. So my question is, now is the state council going to be allowed to evaluate this, but isn't it time you already admit that here you have to take some action? You have learned some things, you have to make some changes – when we got into the situation we came into after Libya. I guess we have a little bit, not after-stupidness, but experience that means that we now have to correct the course, as we have done in countries we like to compare with – like Sweden and the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e626	I fully agree with the representative that this with experience learning is important, and this has given all exporting countries an experience. In other words, there is a lot that is neither A-material nor B-material, but that can be used in weapons and repressive activities, such as the economy is connected. It is true that the government took the initiative to review the exports of defence equipment from Norway to the countries of the Middle East and North Africa immediately — as described in the Storing Communication — and on the basis of the events we have also briefed the bodies of the Storting on this, most recently. We believe that exports to these countries show that practice has been restrictive. We have also found, unlike several other exporting countries, that it has not been necessary to withdraw licences. But we are now going to carry out such a review with regard to the authoritarian regimes, of course with the starting point to learn, and it will be relevant to look at other countries that are quite similar to ours, and the experiences they have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e633	It was the Foreign Minister’s statement on the relationship with EU legislation that prompted me to ask for the word in reply. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has firmly supported the Committee's request to assess whether our legislation is robust enough and strict enough, and of practice in this way. What I want to get the foreign minister's assurance is about the EU adaptation that the government now intends to do, in some way it can be said to weaken Norwegian legislation or practice, because then the Foreign Minister does not have the Stortinget in his back. He has the Storting in his back to assess whether it's strict enough, but not to liberalize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e640	I can assure the High Commissioner that we will enter into that assessment, that amendment, with the natural assumption that we maintain what is our export control regime. I have not been told in my work that there would be any conflict with it, but I want to take the representative's reminder with me and take an extra thorough check on it. I think we're about to have the strict code. In fact, many countries in all modesty study carefully what Norway does when assessing their own rules. I think we can implement this EU directive without going at the expense of it, but we need to take an extra thorough check on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e647	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is the representative Dagfinn Højbråten – in this session with a speaking time limited to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e652	President, it's gonna be fine! Let me comment on a few things that have arisen in the debate – first of all, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has made it clear from the Chair of the United Kingdom that he and the government intend to follow up the clear request contained in the Committee's unanimous position to come back to Stortingen with an assessment of whether the risk assessments of the export control regime are robust enough, whether practice is strict enough, in particular as regards exports to authoritarian regimes which by definition can become unstable and where there is a risk that the equipment may be used for internal repression or human rights violations. We are very pleased with that from the Christian People's Party. I believe that with that assurance from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it should be unnecessary to vote on the proposal put forward by the Left here today. I would ask that it be converted into a transmission proposal, so that it can be included as part of the basis for what comes back to Stortinget in a separate case next year. Finally, the representative Ivar Kristiansen expressed himself in such a way that I consider it necessary to stress that Norway has a strict regulatory framework internationally. The Minister of Foreign Affairs even characterized it as the most severe in the world. That's good. Representatives of industry, in consultation with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, have said that they regard this as a competitive advantage. That's good, too. Then you have to choose your words when you talk about a level playing field and alone, as the representative Kristiansen did. It may lead some to believe that in this Chamber there are parties who want to liberalise this world's most stringent legislation to adapt to other countries. I don't think the representative Kristiansen meant it, but in any case I feel the need to stress that it means at least we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e665	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 952]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e683	Like many others, I think about where I was at 3:00 on September 11, 2001. I had spelled myself down to Stortinget after having celebrated the election result of SV to long by night. I heard the outburst of Anne Berit, the consultant of the staging group, and who is still working there, when she saw what happened, on TV. Then we sat there, in front of the TV. In a political sense, it took the decade we have behind us to that day. The following day, NATO decided that the terrorist attack had triggered Article 5 of the Atlantic Charter. A U.S. leadership attack on Afghanistan quickly followed, with different individual countries as participants. In Norway, the Foreign Affairs Committee was briefed on Norwegian strength contributions almost on the day of 10 years ago, 30 November 2001. Saka was then brought to the main hall and debated there on 5 December 2001. A proposal from the SV that ‘The majority does not consent to Norwegian forces being made available for military operations in Afghanistan under the command of the United States’ was rejected against SV’s votes. The big debate is thought-provoking reading – first of all because he shouldn't find his place. A decision on the matter was invalid. ‘It is not just that it is unnecessary to take a decision in this case. We believe that if we were to do so, it would make the responsibility between accumulation and government unclear." It was the clear message from the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland. Secondly, the threat to military instruments in the fight against terrorism was great. ‘The American-led military operations are essential for the success of the fight against international terrorism’ said Foreign Minister Jan Petersen. There was hardly anyone, with the exception of SV, who asked whether a military attack on Afghanistan was actually a trick action against terrorism, and about Norwegian military participation was our best contribution. Thirdly, more than suggested that the war in Afghanistan would be over in a short time, and that democracy and equality would prevail. ‘The United States and the Allies are about to win the war in Afghanistan. Now we must make sure not to lose peace." State Councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson said on 5 December 2001. What can we learn from the debate? Well, at least we can learn that we didn't know or understood what we were going to. Soon ten years later, we know that the reason for being in Afghanistan has been expanded and in part changed, that the war has lasted longer than anyone ever. The situation on the ground is quite different from a few years ago, and we're stretching the capacity of Norwegian military forces to stand up. We are simply involved in another war than the one we went into in 2001. There have been important improvements in Afghanistan in the decade. More, not least girls, go to school. A number of new health services are created in the country, and police, army and judicial services are better equipped. The country has made a choice which, in spite of all the difficulties, must be called democratic. But, unfortunately, it's not the main picture. It's more negative. Security is worse than in many years. Development is much later than it was supposed to be. There is little effort to build up the country's capacity, and the board is unstable. There were errors while along the way, and they were also warned. Norway spends large amounts of development aid to Afghanistan each year, almost as much as to the military operation. The government has increased the assistance and better device on him. The big picture, however, is that international society spends ten times as much on the war in Afghanistan as it did on bringing peace, and it is far too little to strengthen civil development. A report by ACBAR, the Coordination Body for Voluntary Organisations in Afghanistan, written by Matt Waldman in 2008, reviews the situation of aid for the development of the country. The region receives much less assistance than other conflict areas have received. Afghanistan got a tenth of what Bosnia got for the first two years per capita, and a fifth of what Iraq got for the first five years per capita. It is extensive waste and abuse. 40 pst. assistance goes back to donor countries, and assistance is well coordinated. In other words, too little, too chaotic and too late. SV has argued for many years that all parties must meet at the negotiating table and that Norway must talk to everyone. ‘Talking with the Taliban and maintaining democracy in Afghanistan, no, I don’t think so,” said Erna Solberg to the Nettavisen in 2008. Siv Jensen raided with me in a debate the following year by saying that SV would have tea company with the Taliban. Kai Eide was the UN Special Mission to Afghanistan for the years 2008-2010. I don't know if it was tea company he had with Taliban leaders, but his ‘of course I met Taliban leaders’ was a liberating, direct response that went on television stations all over the world. Now most international actors share such a view. After all, the premise for a peaceful and democratic Afghanistan is to include everyone in politics and society. As in other peace processes, a dialogue must exist with all groups playing a role. It is easy to say, but very demanding to implement, and unfortunately it has gone too long before there was a target. ‘Has the military structure in Afghanistan brought us closer to finding a solution to the conflict in that country? I think the answer is a very clear no. The constant militarisation of the United States — and thus the Western strategy — has brought us further away from a solution and not further." This is how Kai Eide puts himself in his book, but he adds: ‘I am not opposed to continued international military presence.’ This also covers my view in a good way. Today, there is a crisis of confidence between the international forces and the Afghan civilian population. The escalation of the conflict has led to the death of the civilian population. In 2010, more than 10,000 killed — civilian, insurgents and foreign and Afghan forces are gathered. Over 2,000 of the killed were civilian Afghans. It means that every day five-six civilians die as a result of the war. I mean Norway's view of the strategy has turned clearly in the right direction, but there is too little international rotation in the right direction. The head of the Security Policy Department of the German Research Foundation ‘Stiftung Wissenschaft und Politik’, Dr. Markus Kaim, is among those who have pointed out that different motives in different countries, and changes over time, have made it difficult to address the necessary threat of the international strategy. Nine out of ten warriors last longer and go worse than the strategists believe in advance. Most of the time, it's different and it lasts longer. The first enthusiasm turns into criticism, difficulty and doubt. At the same time, the decision is to send soldiers into war perhaps the most difficult and most serious we politicians take. That's why I mean that we in Norway need to develop a doctrine for when it's time to send Norwegian soldiers into war or other military operations, and when that's not the case – a set of demands that should be met. Having a doctrine, a set of critical questions to ourselves, will not reduce the debate or make the answer easier, but it can provide a more reflective and enlightened debate. Not least, this is important because we are a small member of a great defence alliance, NATO, where a number of demands are made on us. Norway should be obliged to the organisations of which we are a member, no matter what view one has of membership, but we should also be obliged to assess for ourselves what is right and what is wrong. For example, the basis for such a doctrine may be: feathers: Vital concerns for international peace and common international security must be undermined. Corky Norway or other countries should send military forces to a war in which we are not entirely sure is necessary, in order to achieve a greater good, to maintain peace. Any means other than military power must have been tried. If we're going to put life in jeopardy, it's an absolute minimum that all other instruments than the military have been tried first. The objective of military participation must be clear and achievable. However, if everything else has been tried, it remains to be assessed whether it is possible to achieve the targets one has military, as shown by the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The military action must have a clear UN mandate. We only need to participate in military operations that have an explicit UN mandate, because the Security Council is the only body that has legitimate competence to exercise power, according to the UN Charter. The military action must have political support in Norway, expressed by a decision of the Stortinget. I believe that decisions on military participation in a comprehensive international operation should be taken in Stortinget. There is usually no practical or temporal problem with it. So this isn't a fasit. The point is to be responsible for us as politicians and force us to assess it carefully. It is not easy to see a positive path for Afghanistan today. It can be said that the current policy changes in international society and the preparations for military withdrawal are both too late and too early. It is too late because the conversion against civil development and a political inclusive negotiating strategy should have come many years ago. And it's too early because it's hard to see that in a few years, Afghanistan will be able to secure security, democracy and economic development in its own country. The fight for a better future for Afghanistan is not lost. He will never be lost, but then it is necessary that the UN, NATO and we here in Norway change the strategy to support development, democratisation and state building in the country. It is necessary that we beg to support Afghanistan long after the war and military participation are over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e760	Interpellant Solhjell indicates that 10 years have passed since Norway decided to send military forces to Afghanistan. No government ever takes light on the task of sending Norwegian forces to international operations – not this one, and I do not believe the previous ones either. The debate in 2001 highlighted this complexity. Looking back, it is natural to ask the question: Was there any serious reason Norway should contribute to Afghanistan? Does the decision stand today? When we have to answer such a question, we have to isolate the decision, the goal and the purpose of what we have experienced in the years after. Many of the contentious experiences are not based on the decision to engage in the military, but on the way in which the operation was developed — based on a number of choices and decisions in the years that followed. It is still my clear belief that it was right to engage in the military, and that it was right that Norway was among those who contributed. Our first forces were in Afghanistan at the end of 2001 as part of Operation Enduring Freedom, based on our alliance commitments in NATO and UN Charter paragraph 51, self-defense. The main emphasis of our contributions has been — and is — in the ISAF International Stabilisation Force, based on a mandate from the UN Security Council. During the 2005 government shift, it was decided to pool all Norwegian military efforts in ISAF. There are serious reasons why Norway is extending far in order to contribute to support under the UN Decision. This is a guiding principle in Norwegian foreign policy. We also have an obligation as a NATO member to support the operations undertaken by the Alliance. Now we see the outlines of the end of the military presence in Afghanistan. The transfer of responsibilities to Afghan security forces is already under way. Yes, more than that: towards the end of this year, 2011, half of the Afghan population will live in areas transferred to Afghan security forces. President Karzai announced the next transmission phase this weekend. Norway supports this process, and we will adapt our military contribution accordingly. We have a clear strategy for the end of our current military engagement by the end of 2014. We can look back on ten demanding years in Afghanistan. Norwegian life has been lost, Norwegians with and without uniform have been damaged, physically or mentally. Our soldiers, our civilian staff, aid workers and all their families deserve recognition, respect and gratitude. Norwegian personnel and their relatives should feel confident that the decision to send Norwegian forces to Afghanistan was the result of a thorough assessment and based on a robust majority in the Grand Duchy. We are now preparing for the next week's Afghanistan conference in Bonn. It provides a special opportunity to look back at both the debate in the Stortinget ten years ago and the Bonn conference at that time. I believe that today we can state that the Bonn meeting in 2001 underestimated the political dimension of the conflict. The Taliban was excluded from Bonn in 2001. In isolation we can understand this, Bonn was seen as the ‘conference of the victors’. But at the same time, the lack of inclusion, ownership of the results and the further process did not wide enough, and the conference did not place sufficient emphasis on what is required to achieve political dialogue and reconciliation. This led to a loss of valuable time when it came to facilitating precisely this – a political solution and reconciliation. Furthermore, we have seen that the international presence in Afghanistan was over-focused on military efforts and an assumption that the Taliban and other insurgents could be defeated militarily – yes, that the future of Afghanistan could be won by military efforts alone. But this – which was the legacy of Bonn in 2001, to say so – contrasts with reality. It has never worked that way in Afghanistan, not before and not now. Furthermore, the international involvement was weakened as a result of military efforts and attention on Iraq, Afghanistan drifted into second row. The Taliban and other rebel groups were given the opportunity to build up and become powerful. The price of these errors was high. I believe that important recognition has affected both strategy and effort. It is now widely recognised that this conflict must find a political solution. It is possible to talk about political processes involving all parts of the Afghan population, including those with so-called Taliban sympathies. It has been assumed that Afghan capacity must be built to take responsibility for security itself. I believe Norway has been clear about contributing to this reality orientation. But this is not a straightforward process, it is complicated, in a vulnerable security situation, with an unstable political landscape in a very demanding regional context. The government is working to clarify the arrangement for our overall efforts, military and civil, and we will return to the bodies of the Storting after that clarification soon. As I said, the military mission, as we know it, will be completed in 2014. But we don't want to cut the ties to land and people anyway. I can already say that we will remain in Afghanistan with considerable resources for years to come. That also applies in the province of Faryab, where today we have the main emphasis of our military efforts. In addition, I am committed to continuing our efforts to strengthen regional cooperation around Afghanistan. Norway has for several years engaged the countries of the region in an informal dialogue on regional challenges. We arranged for negotiations between the countries prior to the Istanbul meeting on 2 November this year. Afghanistan is now leading the way in the follow-up, and we are ready to give our further support – which I will underline at the Bonn Conference next week. When we read the record from the debate in 2001, we see that it was open and it was critical. The debate resulted in a broad political majority supporting the decision to send Norwegian forces to Afghanistan. The debate showed that political Norway was aware of the complex task we faced. I thought that Norway's constitution gave us good guidelines for that. I cannot take a stand on Mr Solhjell's proposal for a doctrine. On the ear, it sounds like what he cares about, to a large extent – as I see it – is covered up by the process we have in Norway today. Perhaps a little too much attention has been paid to ensuring that the outcome of the effort is guaranteed. In such an area, I think, in particular, that the exact outcome of such a chaotic situation – where the military contribution, after all, is the last solution to be taken – is not easy to obtain. But the fundamental thing for Norway is that it is political support and anchoring in the Great Britain for the decisions taken by the government, even in an area where it has a prerogative, as in foreign policy. The Bonn conference on the future of Afghanistan will be held next week, and it will show that we are at a crossroads. The process of building up and closing the ISAF international stabilisation force has begun. The decision was taken at the NATO summit in Lisbon last December and – as mentioned above – the process will be completed by 2014. We're part of this. We've gone in with the Allies and we'll go out with the Allies, in an orderly way compared to the Afghan authorities. This is an approximation of Afghan authorities, and the key is here – as in the political and economic sphere: Afghan ownership. There will also be next week's important clarifications regarding the future civil international involvement in Afghanistan. Important learning and experience from ten years of commitment must be decisive for the extent and mechanism of international involvement. Afghanistan is facing major challenges. Security is demanding. The Taliban is weakened, but not out of game. They don't have any trouble recruiting new soldiers and launching new attacks, the examples from the past few weeks are many. It shows that the counterclaims are still strong, and that they are not able to overcome them militarily. Therefore, the need to develop the political process must be clearly highlighted, and this is an opinion agreed by Afghans, which our allies now increasingly share and on which the United Nations uses. Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world. Despite massive international efforts, it has significant challenges in terms of living conditions. The difficult safety situation is an additional burden for a country that is trying to improve living conditions for its inhabitants. It is important that people dare to commit themselves politically, that parents can send children to school, that people can go out into the streets to act and that people with resources see themselves profited from investing and creating jobs. We are clear that the continuation of international civil efforts requires that Afghan authorities take greater responsibility for overcoming the widespread culture of corruption. Much is done, but much remains. Another area where enhanced efforts are required is the fulfilment of international human rights obligations, not least the protection and strengthening of women’s rights. Women's rights must also be guaranteed by a possible future political peace agreement between the Afghan Government and the Taliban. Many are alarmed by the attitudes and actions of the Taliban regime in the 1990s. This is a concern we share, and we are working to increase awareness and understanding of this particular issue – not only in Afghanistan but also in other countries. Finally, many challenges remain, but much has been achieved – let us not forget that. Afghanistan is no longer a refuge for Al Qaida. With the mandate of the UN Security Council, we entered Afghanistan to combat international terrorism and prevent Afghanistan from being the base of international terrorist organisations. We've done this. Afghanistan is today a country with elected leaders. Women have the right to vote – a great advance. Afghanistan can show good results such as improving infrastructure, in particular in road and electricity, school construction and student numbers. A strong effort has been made to build up and train the Afghan army, and the police are gradually taking responsibility for the country's security. We're still on our way. The exposure started in 2001 looks different now. We see the end of the military engagement, the Afghans take over the effort. It will continue to be such that the guidelines for Norwegian, political, military and civil action will be firmly anchored in a broad majority on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e800	I want to thank you for the answer, which I thought had a wise and reflective tone. Not least, I am pleased to note that, from a relatively early point of view, mistakes were made in the international community, both with the lack of commitment to development and with the lack of policing strategy, which had decisive consequences. It is by no means surprising to me that the Foreign Minister replied like that, because I have a number of times he listened, including in international contexts, to the need for a change in that direction. Let me start a little bit with the beginning. Was the decision in 2001 correct in the first place? I fully agree that it must be assessed on the basis of the knowledge and objectives we had at the time, and there is probably my answer to the point as clearly as his foreign minister, but it is the opposite – it is no. The aim of the attack on Afghanistan was primarily to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a hub for international terrorism. There is no doubt that to a lesser extent it has been afterwards, but abolish as it is not. It has different reasons to do so. Pakistan's role in the last few years and that there are now border areas in South Afghanistan and over in the western areas of Pakistan that are still there. But in addition, it has to be measured against the option. The option was hardly to let do anything. The alternative was a completely different, coordinated, massive international police action, civilian action and targeted action against terrorism, without a comprehensive military attack and a takeover of Afghanistan – a country about three times the size of France. That would be the real option that time. In my opinion, a big question mark has to be set at how far you've come. The second is that the foundation changes gradually. Although it cannot explain the first decision, it is at least right to look at the length of the engagement, for the foundation is changing rather quickly towards turning the Taliban back permanently, and then towards democracy and state building. Yes, one has achieved things in both areas, but not enough. The Taliban has not been permanently restored as a force in Afghanistan in recent years, rather on the contrary. And we have, as I was in my post, come too short when it concerns state building. Finally, I would just like to say that what I have tried to record and call a doctrine, or a set of criteria, interprets the foreign minister quite correctly. This is largely in line with the policy of today's government. My point is not that I think we can adopt a phase, check against him, and then we have the answer, either the same day or five years later. There are incredibly complex questions, but that's precisely why when they're taken up one and two and three and ten years later, they can come better in the center than they did when we got up in some dramatic days and weeks when the decision was drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e822	Let me just say that I think this is a good and important debate. That is why I will again commend the interpellant for asking the question. It gives the opportunity, especially now ten years later, to ask questions in addition to those we have discussed in this room by various types of explanations. I also see the point the interpellanten has, that one could go to work differently in 2001. At the same time, I have little faith in a strategy that the one I hear the representative is now sketching, with a massive police effort. That's what the experience has shown. Because if the point was – as I believe it was legitimate to assume – that this had been an attack on the United States, from a geographical and political location, and that took place planned, conceived in Afghanistan, with or without the direct consent of the authorities, well, the self-defence criteria that the UN Charter sets out. That is not a massive police effort. I can understand that under the circumstances. Let me say in brackets that the international security effort over the last ten years, which has been most challenging, is the police effort, how to get police from other countries to do sensible and effective work in Afghanistan. It's about training Afghans to run the police themselves. As I said, there has been something of it all, most difficult. I want to add, when we now have more of the fasitivities than we had in 2001, that there is one fundamental aspect, which was seen in the autumn of 2001, but which has become so clear later, and which challenges all of the historical lessons of military action against rebel movements. It's that when the rebel movement is probably involved in a neighbouring country, it's terribly difficult. The dimension related to the Afghanistan/Pakistan border, which has become a much deeper, more demanding, delicate and sensitive problem, as we have seen only in recent days, shows how difficult it is. So I just want to say in the end that what has been presented as a doctrine by the representative, both in writing and in speech, are interesting elements. I mean, as I said, that they basically sum up what we have as a background for the Norwegian decision-making system today. I also believe that there is a good basis for going back today to tidy speeches and decisions in 2001, to see what political Norway meant then. We have each been able to go through and read both reports from the Stortinget and other documents that provide a starting point for what was the attitude. There was a very clear anchoring in what was the provisions of the United Nations Charter, and I believe Norway has acted accordingly. There was a great deal of emphasis on the Security Council's decision and eventually on the responsibility that NATO was given, and that we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e835	The issue of interpellant travel is two-fold: how can the justification for our participation in December 2001 contribute to an exit strategy in the future, and can expectations then teach us something about how the Storting should deal with any similar situation? Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I believe that the debate on 5 December 2001 highlights the complexity of the task we undertook. We went into Afghanistan with the awareness that the job was not over when the Taliban regime was defeated. That was when the demanding task really started. Then we have to recognise that the task of assisting Afghans in building a more democratic system of government and rebuilding the country after decades of civil war and, not least, establishing respect for human rights would prove more demanding than many thought. Nor did it help the United States to go to war in Iraq, which took both resources and political attention away from the tasks in Afghanistan. Over these ten years, much has been achieved, as both the inter-pellant and the Minister for Foreign Affairs refer to. It's positive. But we also see that much remains, especially in the political field. It has been held democratic elections. But the democratic structures are fragile. The old, basic structures of Afghan society seem strong. Reconciliation, which is necessary to bridge over old enmity and contradictions, is lacking. How are we going to deal with decision-making processes in a similar situation? The basic thing is the broad consensus on: without the anchoring of international law in a UN decision, Norwegian participation in such operations is excluded. It had the operation in Afghanistan. In addition, NATO agreed that the attack on the United States on 11 September triggered Article 5 in NATO, which would also oblige us, but this was not later used as a justification for the operations. The UN resolution gave its mandate. Both parties do not just give a mandate under international law, it obliges us as a member of the United Nations to set up, if we have relevant contributions to make. Yet, of course, we need to think carefully about how we can best contribute. Is it through military contributions? Is it through civil contributions? Is it through political contributions? In Afghanistan, we have contributed to all three fronts, including political ones. by engaging the countries of the region in an informal dialogue on regional challenges, as also pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The interpellant provides a response to a set of criteria that must be met before we participate in this type of operation – or at least we can assess the participation against: a clear UN mandate, a call for vital importance for peace and common security and a clear and achievable goal for the military action. This I think it is, and will be, broad agreement about, it is in line with the government's policy and is being fulfilled, in my opinion, also by the decision that was taken ten years ago. The Labour Party leader in the debate on 5 December 2001, Thorbjørn Jagland, said this: ‘To those who have claimed that it was not right to use military instruments in Afghanistan, I would like to say the following: Then the Taliban continued to hold hold hold in Afghanistan’. And he could have added: Al Qaida and other terrorist networks had still had their refuge. A more demanding criterion would be that ‘all instruments other than military shall be tested first’. There may be a good guide in many conflicts, but faced with a surprising attack such as on 11 September 2001 and a regime such as the Taliban in Afghanistan would be a protection for the attacker and not a contribution to resolving the conflict. There are situations where policy instruments require a minimum of common understanding, a minimum of common values. Faced with political forces using suicide bombers, which do not recede to use their own people as targets for terrorism, such a common ground seems to be absent. Then, unfortunately, only power remains. Finally, the question of a 'yes' to participation in UN operations of this nature shall require a large-scale decision, even when there is no question of sending a 'protective person'. The Constitution requires such a decision. On the basis of the government's prerogatives, I believe it is important to restrain the institution's representation of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. There are situations where there is a need for confidentiality between the government and an overall increase in order to safeguard Norwegian interests in sensitive matters. That doesn't mean that there can't be a debate about the decision the government is taking after consulting the Stortinget, as we had ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e868	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic for debate. It is always necessary and proper to have an evaluation when a military action has taken place over such a long time. I believe that the decision we made in the autumn of 2001 to vote in favour of Norwegian involvement in Afghanistan is good, and that it was right. I believe, not least, that it was right because Afghanistan is no longer a haven for international terrorism. I believe that one had not managed to achieve this in the same way without a clear military instrument, of which we chose to be part. The military operation was never considered simple. I did not hear that in the debate. As we entered Afghanistan, I don't think you could imagine all the complexity and challenges you faced, but as we know today, with the experience we now have, it wasn't easy. The humanitarian challenges were not forgotten. Before we came to the debate on 5 December 2001, to which reference has been made, there was a case in Stortinget – in fact one of the first cases that came from the Bondevik government after the 2001 elections – about a humanitarian contribution to remedy the situation in Afghanistan that we knew was going to be difficult after 11 September, no matter what had happened to international attention relating to Afghanistan. This was a run-up to the Bonn conference. The size was overall quite willing to be on that track, and there was great attention also to it, not as much about money as about the military, but there was broad attention. If I were to speak for myself, you wouldn't be as clear as how complex the region was, and how difficult not least Pakistan would be in this. Pakistan's relations with Afghanistan and with the Western and international forces have gone from perhaps demanding and challenging to very difficult, not to say almost negative. Pakistan's recent decision to boycott the forthcoming Bonn conference is probably a signal that you're not in any hurry at all, you're not talking. That reality has probably been there for a long time, but this means that the possibility of a political solution is lacking. It probably wasn't as clearly seen in the autumn of 2001. When the representative, Mr Solhjell, wants a doctrine, I must say that we welcome a proposal. If the representative Solhjell and SV want to put forward a proposal for discussion and debate in Stortinget, we will take it most seriously and will deal with it with the respect it deserves. It was just supposed to be missing! But now I want to say, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that it's a very high threshold, I've experienced, with all the politicians, to go into military operations, say yes to send Norwegian forces into foreign missions or any sharp mission. It's not something you do with a light heart. The issues raised by the representative, Solhjell, are essentially part of such an assessment. It may soon be a bit of a theoretical debate to set up a set of fixed criteria, but, as I said, we want to welcome this. Having a debate, preferably in Stortinget, when we send soldiers on mission, is a desired situation, and we'd like to contribute to it if it's for temporal reasons, or there's other circumstances that suggest that it's possible. Otherwise, I would say that during these ten years we have been in Afghanistan, the Storting has regularly discussed the arrangements for our contribution, both humanitarian, aid, political and military. We'll keep doing that. So the Storting has been willing to make the necessary changes, which we have seen need, along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e885	I would first like to thank you for the opportunity to have a debate on this in Stortinget. Fortunately, we have that many times in Norway, despite the fact that there is a broad political consensus on our involvement in Afghanistan. We have this in the room, we have it in the media, we have it in conferences and seminars that are organized around the country. All of us present here now are active in these debates. I would also like to say that for the past six and a half years, there has been quite a real orientation on what Norwegian forces are doing in Afghanistan, and on what our aid and humanitarian commitment is all about, and that is good. At the same time, I would also like to take the opportunity to say to all those who are involved in NGOs humanitarian and aidable, and to all Norwegian military personnel who are in Afghanistan, that they do and have done – for over ten years and so well – a fantastic job, both on behalf of Norway and to solve the challenges in Afghanistan. So sending military forces is a government decision, according to the Constitution. But then, of course, there are consultations with the Storting through the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence – a consultation and a body that the representative and the inter-pellant want to close. As former Foreign Minister Jan Petersen said in the debate in 2001: ‘According to the Constitution, the King is both the commander of the armed forces and the head of the foreign government. The Government is hereby empowered to conduct foreign and security policy.’.» The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee then, Thorbjørn Jagland, followed up, and he was very clear: ‘It is not just that it is unnecessary to take a decision in this case. We believe that if we were to do so, it would make the responsibility between accumulation and government unclear." He goes on to say, ‘I also say this because Norway has to follow the decisions we have taken in NATO under Article 5 and in the UN Security Council under Article 51 in a clear and clear manner.’ There are many things that have gone well in Afghanistan, there are many things that are challenging, and there are many things that have gone badly. On 29 September, together with the then Secretary of State, I now attended a Minister of Defence, Espen Barth Eide, and the then Minister of Defence, now Minister of Justice and Defence, Grete Faremo, at a conference on just Afghanistan 10 years later. There's a lot of things I think you have to look at with a very open look. One is, of course, the situation in the region, which is so crucial to what is happening in Afghanistan. There is a need for clearer international coordination, the importance of planning in the long term and not always looking for quick fix solutions and, not least, recognising that Afghanistan is a country with many internal conflicts, which also goes far beyond what has to do with the West and ISAF. In addition, I would also like to stress that the provincial governor of Faryab, Abdul Haq Shafaq, specifically mentions unemployment as a problem, and is also recruiting. There was a strong recognition in the 2001 debate that both this was going to be long-term and that it was going to be difficult. That's how Minister of Defence Kristin Krohn Devold said: ‘The situation is developing rapidly, but the military action in Afghanistan may be long-term.’ The current Foreign Minister, Jan Petersen, was also concerned that the international community was now facing a wide range of problems that had to be solved. Among other things, the government showed it by having as its first response to the situation in Afghanistan to promote a message about our humanitarian commitment. It is good that Norway has maintained it and strengthened it over several years. I have to make a reservation for what Solhjell's representative said in his statement regarding a doctrine. He says it will lead to a more reflected and enlightened debate. It seems to me that the representative says it is not today. It's a criticism of his own government, and it's criticism of previous governments. No government, no big deal, takes easy time sending young men and women into a war situation in a foreign country. It is that SV lost voting in 2001, but they later joined a government that has contributed for six years to maintaining our military involvement in Afghanistan. Then SV must make a choice, because I have not yet seen a single constitutional proposal from SV that changes the way we conduct the decision-making process around military forces, namely by amending the Constitution § 25. And until such a constitutional proposal is on the table, I assume that SV also supports the interpretation that this is the government's prerogative, and the Stortinget should be consulted before such decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e925	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant, who gives an alternate a short visit an opportunity to underline SV's war resistance, which we share with large parts of the Norwegian people, if not the majority. Norway has now been in Afghanistan twice as long as we were occupied during the Second World War. It's also longer than the Vietnam war lasted, which became shelling too many, probably also for this assembly. The costs have been enormous, and they are increasing. In 2010, Americans used as much as in the first five years alone. As of November 22, the number of killed soldiers from the occupation was 2,740, including Norwegian falsities. For the number of civilians killed, estimates are more approximate and range between 17000 and 37000. None of the previous speakers have mentioned the number of failures. The reason for our participation was that we should contribute to preventing the emergence of international terrorism, secure peace and stability, contribute to development and prevent distress. Not only have the goals not been achieved, but it has cost tens of thousands of people their lives, and we have used resources that, by alternative use, could have saved dozens of thousands of lives. Anders Romarheim, currently a researcher at the Institute of Defense Studies, analysed in his main edition in 2005 how it is being propagated to start a war. He shows that the two most common propaganda agents following the war on terrorism are creating fear and transferring it to a situation that is not relevant – and that was to respond to the September 11 attack on Afghanistan. Fear is also the goal of the terrorists. Thus, the population ends up in a crossfire of fear, created by both terrorists and occults. British intelligence, for example, stated during the Iraq hearing last year that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have increased the risk of terror. The war in Afghanistan has contributed to the increase in the rise of radical Islamists and the strengthening of the ‘us against them’ problem. Swallowing if more areas are quieter than before is hardly peace and stability concepts that local people will use to describe Afghanistan today. The soldiers are forced to hide in their lairs and can hardly protect themselves seas, and they are strongly exposed if they move out among those they were to help. The number of road bombs and other bombings has increased. The rise of the Taliban is strong – as a result of the war. Research director Arne Strand at Chr. The Michelsen Institute recently stated that Afghanistan is a good picture of how the war on terrorism has gone on for the last ten years. It's not a merry analysis. The parliamentary system in Afghanistan is marked by nepotism and is in chaos. Among the inhabitants are the strong ethnic tensions, and it is a tremendous fear of civil war. There are far more unsafe areas in the country now than ten years ago. There will be an increasing question of how the human rights situation will develop," says Arne Strand, according to the University Newspaper at Högden. With regard to the goal of development, positive things have happened within school and health. The situation for women is also better, but more women-friendly decisions by Parliament show that international pressure does not affect this policy area. Because of the goal of relieving distress, many have been better off since the Taliban was weakened. At the same time, very many are affected by the thousands of civilian lives that have been lost in the war. In the case of development — or lack of/wrong development — it may also be a point to point to the opium industry, which means that Afghanistan is the major culprit of Norway, they have more than 90 pst. of the market. Afghanistan is a long-term development project that cannot be democratised through a short-term military campaign, says Norwegian anthropology’s nephew, Fredrik Barth, who has done a lot of research in Afghanistan. One then had to carry out a development that has taken several hundred years elsewhere, and that is a scarce project. It's the rays of traditional western etnocentrism, says security adviser Øystein Steiro. Today, most people agree that there is no military solution in Afghanistan. We have to answer three questions: was it right to go in? Is Norway's efforts something we can stand for today? And is it right to withdraw? SV believes that it was wrong to go in. We believe that we cannot stand for being in Afghanistan, and we should be driving for as fast a withdrawal as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e955	Norway has contributed strengths to military operations in Afghanistan for 10 years. In order to understand the background to this decision, it is absolutely necessary to go back to what was the political reality in the autumn of 2001 when the decision was taken. The attacks on the United States on 11 September 2001 introduced something completely new and unexpectedly on the international political agenda. One of our closest allies since World War II was attacked on their own land in an attack so devastating, extensive and so well-planned that it was perceived as nothing but a declaration of war. The atmosphere in the Western world was very uncertain. Who was behind it? What was the rationale? Could the United States or any of their allies expect similar estimates? For a country that has based large parts of its defence and security thinking on NATO membership, this gave completely new challenges. Following consultations in NATO, the attack was interpreted as an attack requiring the use of NATO's collective defence article. The involvement in Afghanistan became a matter of solidarity with close allies and NATO. For Norway, the answer in 2001 – as we know – was to support NATO and allies when we entered Afghanistan. It is in the context of the situation in 2001 that we now need to assess our ten-year military contribution in Afghanistan. Decisions to use military power are of the most difficult and most unpleasant politicians can be asked to take. This decision was not simple either. When we first chose to do that, it's important that we're open about why. We went into Afghanistan because of NATO and our close relationship with the United States. Support for NATO membership is an important part of our country's defence policy. By fulfilling our alliance commitments in NATO in a good way, we are securing Norway's future security policy platform. But for us, it was absolutely essential that the operation be given a UN mandate. This operation had it. In Resolution 1368, the Security Council concluded that the terrorist attacks were a threat to international peace and security and underlined the right of the United States to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. In Resolution 1373, the Council instructed all States to implement measures to halt the financing of international terrorist activities. Later, many resolutions have been adopted on the situation in Afghanistan by the UN Security Council. The conflict in Afghanistan clearly illustrates that military power has its limitations, and because the use of military power is as demanding as it is, both morally, politically and economically, we who are politically responsible for military operations must always be critical of what we can achieve. If we doubt the need for military action, we must dryly ask the question whether it should continue. It is not to undermine own decisions, but to take the great responsibility of deciding on the use of military power. It is far from certain that ten new years of military forces in Afghanistan will produce the desired result for Afghan society. We therefore welcome the slowdown in the international military presence and believe it is absolutely right to transfer responsibility for security to the Afghans themselves as soon as possible. At the same time, we believe it is important to maintain the efforts of an Afghanistan with better protection of human rights, legal certainty and physical security. That is why, once the military forces are out, we must also support with a broad civil aid effort and take the responsibility that we have when we have contributed to the operation we have done for over ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e975	When historians discuss what lessons can be drawn from past experiences, it is worth listening critically. When politicians take over the role of history writer, it's worth listening extra critically. This is probably also true of today's debate. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Solhjell, for the interpellation. There are several reasons to look for the lessons of history. Alf Prøysen mentioned one of them – the possibility of ‘rectifying an ugly error from yesterday’. And if that's not always possible, at least it's important to avoid doing the same mistakes again. I guess that's what's called experience learning. That is a new word that I have learned from the representative Skei Grande today. In the light of such learning, we can probably see that both political, humanitarian, developmental and military engagement in Afghanistan has proved to be far more demanding than many saw ten years ago. But it's also wrong to ignore the realism that all that time was put on display. It's really been confirmed by the story since. Former Foreign Minister Jan Petersen began his presentation on 5 December 2001 with three sentences, all of which have been confirmed by history since. Sentence No 1:@item: inlistbox ‘The fight against international terrorism has a long-term perspective and requires a broad range of instruments.’ Yes, experience has fully confirmed that we need a long-term perspective – and a broad range of instruments. Sentence No Article 2 is replaced by the ‘Norway is actively involved in this fight, both politically, economically, legally and militarily.’ Yes, changing governments have also confirmed this. We have e.g. Far from using military resources alone, we have really tried many other instruments as well. Sentence No 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘In the global coalition against terrorism, the UN plays a crucial role.’ That's also true. The UN did not just give a clear mandate on international law for the military actions against Al Qaida and the Taliban in Afghanistan. Article 51 of the United Nations Charter itself provided the basis for the right of the United States to self-defence. Fourthly, the debate illustrated the dualism we often see — on the one hand, a healthy reluctance to military use, on the other hand, at the same time a recognition that military instruments unfortunately sometimes have to be used. The 2001 Storting debate was not least marked by the SV’s twist on this. Kristin Halvorsen had first argued hesitantly against allied air support in the fight against the Taliban and Al Qaida, claiming that bombing works against his purpose, it only strengthens the Taliban. But the Allied air support for the North Alliance quickly led to the collapse of the Taliban military forces. In the debate, the then SV-representative Bjørn Jacobsen acknowledged that SV had probably been wrong when they thought that the use of power ‘would not work’. And since 2005, SV as a government party has defended and shared responsibility for record-breaking Norwegian military contributions to what is acts of war in Afghanistan. So even though the twin is retained by agitation against the war, both in the main hall and right outside here, it's a fact. I would also like to commend the then SV representative Bjørn Jacobsen, who explained this double by stating that 'SV is not a pacifist party, but we have a lot of pacifists in our party, and we are going to have a policy that can make them even in our party'. That was an affordable, clear speech. And I get it. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and others have pointed to a number of things we can learn from. For time's sake, I'll just highlight one aspect. It turned out that modern armaments effectively and rapidly contributed to the fall of the Taliban regime and the protection of Al Qaida’s terrorist training camps. But one thing is to overthrow the totalitarian regime of violence that the Taliban stood for — it was possible to do in a few months’ time — but to change Afghan culture and social life in order to introduce a central government based on freedom and democracy, human rights and the rule of law, which some speakers here with good references to solid Afghanistan experts have referred to, rather generations. In such a perspective, realism is needed without giving the visions. And in the meantime, we need to be able to find ourselves with poor compromises to create the necessary stability, so that the Afghans themselves can be helped to a more peaceful but rather time-consuming change in society and culture. It should be unnecessary, but it is actually the case that we are in a very demanding phase of the Norwegian contribution, for the Norwegian soldiers and for the crews who are there. I just want to stress from the Christian People's Party that we are fully behind the decisions we have been making, including in this demanding phase, and we are behind our soldiers in Afghanistan. They need to know that what we're discussing here is necessary experience learning, but it's not an expression that we're holding seminars while they're doing the demanding job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1018	I would also like to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to look back and evaluate, sail if it doesn't seem like so many have changed so much position. But I think that the representative Højbrätten had a very wise speech, which showed some of the differences in this debate. Several of the quotes are still burned in my memory. It's probably hardly been a war, or a war, in our history – then I'm talking about history really far back – that has become what you thought it would be. There is hardly any war that has been waged by the means with which you thought you were going to wage the war when you went in. Neither in our great wars has it been like this. No one went into World War I and thought it was going to be a trench war with gas, and no one went into World War II and thought it would end with nuclear weapons. All the wars in our history have changed character. It's hard for us to say that we always have to know what it's going to end with. It's not long since we gave support in this room to send military forces to Libya. Many people then said that this is something we don't overlook the effects of – maybe we have to be in Libya for decades to come when we first agreed to participate. It didn't end up like the worst thoughts we had. Today, the Egyptian people stand in long queues to vote. I'm very happy about that, but that doesn't mean they vote for a liberal party. That doesn't mean that the democracy they're fighting to put in place in Egypt is going to be in place in one or two years. Sick when we passed our constitution in 1814, it took quite many years before we could call Norway a proper democracy. Building democracy takes much longer. Suffering if we enjoy some things that go in the right direction, we will have many blows in the face – even when it goes in the wrong direction. It is a great responsibility on a Parliament, and not least on a government, to take the decisions we are talking about here. As the parliamentary leader of a government party at that time, I remember the debates as very serious, and it was a responsibility that a truly heavy one felt. I have no feeling that neither the Norwegian Parliament nor – I think – any Norwegian government is doing it with a light heart. It's a big responsibility to you when you do. It's nice that we can also deal with the disagreement about the assignments. If there's something I wanted, it's that we had more respect for those we send to do a job, sail if we can disagree with the job they're going to do. I have a good picture from my American family when I was visiting them during the war in Iraq. They were strongly opposed to the war in Iraq, but all rose as the soldiers passed by in the procession. One may disagree with those who have sent them out into a job, but one should always respect the job they have. That's why I see it as a statement from a first travel guy when you talk about Norwegian soldiers as occupants and the debate as propaganda. What is an important starting point for all foreign policies and all international participations for Norway as a small country – which we must admit we are – is the international structures on which we lean. We should have no desire in any area to weaken any of the international structures in which we participate. It's actually fighting for world democracy by strengthening the UN and the international structures that will be important in the future when we're going to participate in international operations. That's why it's having a UN mandate and playing with NATO important factors also when we're going to take these decisions. It is clear that then the Central Party parliamentary leader is right – that being part of the international community and playing by the international rules is also an important factor in deciding which action to take as a government in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1035	US and international forces occupied Afghanistan as part of the fight against international terrorism. Al Qaida was to be combated, and it was important to set a line for the temptation of terrorism, where it could develop further. The decision of the big business at that time was not easy. It was anchored in the United Nations decision to engage us militarily and to be part of the international force. I think it is important today to be able to establish that there was an overall government – and today a total increase – that is behind the decisions we made ten years ago. In 2001, when we entered Afghanistan, it was one of the poorest countries in the world. Afghanistan was wrestled with war for 20 years. Extremely dry towards the end of the 1990s further increased poverty, famine and opportunities to establish a national basis for life. What's happening in 2011? Women have been given room in Parliament and also contribute in a number of areas, both nationally and locally. Major progress has been made in several directions of development, such as: health and social, school services, infrastructure, police, etc. Despite considerable efforts by several nations, many people still have an uncertain life situation in Afghanistan. Norway's assistance in 2010 was a total of 750 million. kr, and other nations have also contributed significant sums. Despite all of this, the results are mixed in this area. Norway lost its first soldier in 2004. It has now become increasingly dangerous in Afghanistan. In the last five years, relatively more soldiers have been killed than in the first five years. In 2010, Norway lost a total of four soldiers on mission in Afghanistan. It was one of the darkest days since World War II. But it is very important for us to put ourselves fully behind our soldiers, as we have asked to do this difficult task for us. They shall have our recognition and respect. After ten years of warfare in Afghanistan, and as part of the international community, we must also note that it is a piece of time before the Afghans can stand on their own feet. Both safety and development have a little left. Reports also show that bad things have happened to our billions to different areas of humanitarian work, but the Afghans are now building a society, as we thought, and it's a changing society. What is the strategy now and after the date of extraction? It is important that we discuss this together here in the Storting under full transparency, and that it is well anchored in the Storting. After all that has happened, it is important that we do not fail the Afghan people when we now withdraw militarily. Now we must transfer more responsibility to the Afghans, and we must build a stronger trust between the international community and the Afghans themselves. When it comes to preparing peace, it must also have confidence among the Afghan people. It must also have Afghan ownership if we are to succeed in combating international terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1061	First, I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it's been a lot of good stuff. At least it's taught us a couple of things. Firstly, if this is what representatives Skei Grande and Høybråten call experience learning, it is a great thing that we have a lot of experience. We've learned a good deal, but none of us have changed so much from what we had, from experience and learning. Secondly, I want to say that it was debated in Stortinget ten years ago, in fact, that we know what everyone said that time. We can read through the references in advance, stick to them and interpret them in a slightly different way. It has its own value that everything was said in openness when the decision was made, and that there was a debate here in the main hall. I thought maybe we should put even more emphasis on that in the future. Thirdly, I would like to comment briefly on the question of decision-making processes, pro-rogatives and my article on a so-called doctrine. Firstly, I would like to call it a contribution to the debate based on experience in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee over the last few years and on how I view the experience of both the Afghanistan debate and the Libya debate. The question of how a decision should be taken, and the closure of the enlarged Committee of Foreign Affairs came also on the basis of my own experience in the last few years, and that, after I got to it in the summer and just before, I put myself a little bit into history both to the enlarged Committee of Foreign Affairs and to the Constitution on that point. One thing to say is that it is absolutely right that the King – or the government that it means in this context – has a so-called prorogative, or a primacy. But it is also true that it is generally mentioned, and that how one anchors its policy in the Storting, for example. through the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs, a significant player room will be provided within the Constitution. Finally, SV opted for Norway to withdraw from Afghanistan as quickly as possible. So we were able to learn about a government platform, and it's a collective government that is today behind our forces in Afghanistan, which is of course quite obvious. When you ask people to do a job for Norway abroad, there's one behind it, no matter what their vision, and we're behind the government's common policy. The fact that we stand together on it also gives us a special responsibility for the way forward in Afghanistan. What pleases me is that now there seems to be broader unity than before – first of all, there is a need for a completely different political strategy focusing on a wide-ranging negotiated solution, regionally based, and there is still broad agreement on a strong civil commitment. I am delighted that it is so clearly expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway must be present over time and contribute humanitarian and developmentally in Afghanistan. I thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1074	I have a couple of summary points. Firstly, I would like to say to those who claim from time to time that there is little debate about Afghanistan in Norway, that I think it is wrong. I understand that this difficult issue, where there are no simple answers, can cause questions that we should have a higher profile in the debate, but I respectfully believe that we have often debated the matter. I believe that both the Minister of Defence and I can say that, in addition to debates we have in Norwegian political bodies, this is on the agenda continuously in our international meetings. I will meet my British colleague tomorrow, and this is the Bonn conference this week. This debate is also going internationally. So the questions of military engagement raise important value issues. Tonight, without using this as an advertisement, the Reflection Series has its summary debate under the title ‘Norway in the World. Idealist or realist?» There's an excitement between wanting good things and having a strategy to get them to. Afghanistan, I think, is an example of that, and it is raising many difficult balances. I also think that we have been briefed here in the debate today and in other contexts in the political environment. I just want to end this. I started my post today by saying that no government – as a political authority – takes lightly the responsibility it is to send – and along with the Stortinget grant money to send – military personnel out. But those who are now in charge of Norway, military, civil, auxiliary workers, diplomats, should know the following from this room: A collective government is behind them. It is behind the overall presence of Norway in Afghanistan — and it has a total build-up in the back of that mission. As it approaches the end of the year, they will know that this support is continuous and sustained, and will be there by the government as long as they are on such an important mission for Norway and NATO and with a UN-cleared mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1083	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1097	It is a pleasure for me to be able to present a position by a unanimous committee. It is important that we always focus on how we can improve, renew and transform the public sector in cooperation with employees in order to ensure good jobs for the future as well. The aim of transforming the main workshop of the Air Force Agency Kjeller – LHK – into a state enterprise is just to enable the workshop to carry out major maintenance tasks in the coming years. Kjeller Airport has a long history, and next year, in 2012, they can celebrate the 100th anniversary as an airport – Norway’s oldest. The defence also has a traditional and strong environment of competence at Kjeller. The LHK has a highly advanced technological environment which is internationally recognised in several of its disciplines. Today, heavy maintenance on F-16 fighter aircraft and Sea King helicopters is for most of the work that LHK has. Both of these capacities are expected to be phased out around 2020. Therefore, it is necessary in the long term to reintroduce the workshop if we are to maintain the existing environment of competence. The Committee therefore considers that a reorganisation is necessary if LHK is to participate in and compete for future maintenance tasks on air-military vessels. When purchasing new weapon systems, maintenance agreements are increasingly integrated into the contracts. It is therefore our opinion that it is right to enable LHK to become an operator in the subcontractor market. In the case of a transformation into a State undertaking, one could contribute to the maintenance of the necessary maintenance and preparedness tasks on F-16 and Sea King, while being provided with framework conditions that enable them to participate in and compete for future maintenance tasks, for example on F-35 fighter aeroplanes and NH-90 helicopters. The Committee is also aware that several major international defence industries have expressed an interest in being able to use LHK as a subcontractor – and I must admit that it is a bit knocking in an old rapporteur's heart from the LHK's host municipality. I hope they will succeed in securing contracts that will preserve and develop the skills and jobs in the years to come. Finally, it also includes a proposal to increase the cost framework for the acquisition of a new research vessel to replace F/S ‘Marjata’. After approval of the Stortinget project, the prequalification of potential suppliers has been carried out and contract negotiations with the assumed yard have now been concluded. However, the outcome of the negotiations suggests that the cost framework needs to be increased in order for the project to continue, and the Committee agrees unanimously with the proposal to increase the cost framework of the project by 133 million. kr, so that this can be implemented as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1114	I am pleased to note that all members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence have joined in the proposal in the Proposition on the transformation of the main workshop of the Air Defence Agency Kjeller into state enterprises and the proposal to approve an increase in the cost framework for the purchase of a new research vessel. As the representative Orlund just said, the background to the transformation of the Air Force Main Workshop Kjeller is a desire to adapt the operations to future changes to the maintenance concept for both aeroplanes and helicopters. At the same time, the action will facilitate ensuring a competitive, relevant and highly skilled professional environment in the longer term. The transformation is also an expression of the government's objective of improving, renewing and transforming the public sector in cooperation with the employees. It is particularly gratifying that the work on assessing the transformation of the LHK was started on the initiative of the employee organisations and the management at the LHK in the autumn of 2010. A very thorough process has been carried out to assess the future device of the LHK with good involvement of employees’ representatives. I would like to stress that the pay and pension conditions of the employees have been respected, and among other things. all employees of the LHK at the date of conversion will be allowed to continue their membership of the State pension fund. The transformation of LHK into State enterprises is required if LHK is to be able to participate in and compete for future maintenance tasks on central air-military vessels. It is in our time that maintenance agreements are increasingly integrated into contracts when buying new weapon systems. This is therefore different from the last generation of the replacement of central military material, and it is necessary to position LHK in order for the workshop to become an operator in the subcontracting market established as a result of this development. The activities will maintain the necessary maintenance and emergency tasks related to existing structural elements such as F-16 fighter aircraft and Sea King helicopters by continuing existing maintenance tasks to those phases. Several of these aircraft will be with us for many more years. At the same time, the activity is provided with framework conditions allowing it to compete on a commercial basis for future maintenance tasks, such as, for example, F-35 fighter aeroplanes and NH-90 helicopters. The Ministry of Defence, as its owner, will manage its ownership in line with the country’s established principles of good ownership, and the central concern of the management of ownership will be to facilitate long-term value creation both in Norway and in the region, as mentioned by the representative Orlund. Not least, the defense as a main customer could have a lot to earn on this. Finally, as mentioned above, the reason for the increase in the cost framework for the research vessel is that the contract negotiations with the yard STX OSV AS, formerly Langsten Verft, which delivered the offer, have now been completed. The results of the negotiations are within the accepted cost framework, but it has not been possible to bring the price down to a level that leaves a sufficient uncertainty reserve. The revised uncertainty analysis shows that the cost framework needs to be increased by 133 million. NOK 1,246 million. NOK 1379 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1133	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 953]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1149	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1158	You don't seem to have to worry that this is going to be a long debate. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased to be able to present the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Ukraine. This agreement was signed at the EFTA Ministerial Meeting of Reykjavik on 24 June 2010. The objective of the FTA is to contribute to increased trade and economic cooperation between the parties. As of today, we have entered into 24 trade agreements, and 11 are signed under the current government. The last agreement that was signed was with Hong Kong-China in June. Future growth in Norway depends on access to growth markets in the world. This is the job of the government through the WTO, EEA and EFTA, which provides Norway with one of the world’s largest free trade agreements network. That such agreements work, there is no doubt about it. We clearly see that, after the conclusion of free trade agreements, trade is falling apart. It is also expected that trade with Ukraine will increase after the conclusion of this free trade agreement. Therefore, it is important that we are out of business delegations to new markets and contribute to these agreements. Singapore, Malaysia and the Middle East are on the agenda and are important, but also more African countries such as Angola, Ghana and Mozambique, which are three of the world's fastest growing economies, are important to work against. This Agreement will contribute to free market access for all Norwegian exports of fish and fish products to Ukraine from 1 January 2012. Telecommunications services are the most important individual sector in trade between countries, but data, shipping and insurance services are also important for Norwegian service providers. Trade in unprocessed agricultural products is not regulated by the EFTA Convention because it is considered that WTO legislation should eliminate customs and other trade restrictions for the essential part of trade. This is ensured by bilateral agreements between each EFTA State and Ukraine. The Free Trade Agreement and the Agreement on trade in agricultural products have been submitted to the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, both recommending ratification. The Industry Committee points to this as a contribution to increasing predictability and better framework conditions for Norwegian exporters and investors. The Committee has shown special commitment to the development of Ukraine, with a view to freedom of the press and assembly and the establishment of the rule of law. The Committee warns against drifting back to previous news-control, press and violence against journalists. This does not directly affect the scope of the agreement, but the Committee points to a clear concern for Ukraine’s development and emphasises the need to adhere closely to human rights and workers’ rights, and calls for this to be done by the countries with which we conclude agreements. This is made clear in the Committee's comments. There is an overall committee behind this recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1184	First of all, I would like to join in what the rapporteur has presented from the Chair. It is a unanimous committee that is behind the vote itself. But I find reason to link a few comments to the matter itself. Norway is a relatively small global player by population. However, it is clear that Norway within the EFTA system, as an EFTA country, is large and, together with Switzerland, they are the big and dominant ones. Furthermore, we have Iceland and Liechtenstein with us. For a small country like Norway, it is very important to have as many trade agreements as possible, preferably free trade agreements, so that we ensure that the barriers to trade for our own businesses are minimised, especially in new and exciting markets that have to emerge. The case rapporteur was in a number of countries. In addition to these, I can also report that representatives of the EFTA delegation of the United States of America, together with other EFTA countries, are now travelling to Indonesia to look at what is happening there in connection with a free trade agreement with Indonesia. In addition, I was so lucky to be present in Strasbourg where we have opened negotiations with, among other things. Costa Rica, Panama and Honduras, so that one now also sees that way. I believe that Ukraine is – and in the future will be – an exciting market for Norwegian companies. It is a developing country, and it is a country that already has a trade relationship with Norway in the areas of fish, telecoms, data, etc. Let's hope that it's possible to further develop. In the case of the agricultural agreement itself, which you try to put in place here, it is relatively limited. Mainly, the trade agreement in the Annex follows the case itself. But what we're referring to is that Norway and Ukraine should grant each other concessions on agricultural products, i.e. products of origin, as specified in the annex to the case. It is relatively limited, so I think the Norwegian agricultural cooperatives do not have much to fear in this case, because this is in relatively small quantities. Where the Committee distinguishes slightly, it is linked to the emphasis on what has to do with matters other than purely commercial policy. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, among others, demonstrate that: to the trial against former Prime Minister Julia Timoshenko, and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated that it may appear that it is a politically motivated judgment. I believe that we must not have too strong ties between matters other than purely commercial policy, but we must take advantage of these opportunities to discuss this when we sit around a table, especially when it comes up at ministerial level. It will be very exciting in the future to see if the government and the other EFTA States have put a strategy in this area. It is clear that there are considerable variations between countries as to how much emphasis can be placed on this. We have a fresh memory of the Colombian agreement – an agreement that has not yet been ratified by Norway because that is a point on which we do not yet agree. Then, of course, you have the opportunity to have a side agreement that goes against employee rights, etc., so it's going to be exciting to see what you end up with. However, the challenges are likely to stand in line, and we will probably have challenges related to China, Indonesia and some other countries, and we are linked to Ukraine, which I have already pointed out. It is important to have a strategy that is well-founded, together with the other countries, precisely to choose what to focus on in addition to the purely commercial one. I look forward to Norway having more agreements. It will be exciting with the African countries, to which the rapporteur was referring. We already see that the Chinese authorities are buying up a lot in the African market, and at least I have no faith that there are purely aid reasons why China is engaged in these countries. There are probably other things that lie at the root. I hope the Council of State will continue to have a major focus on concluding new free trade agreements. Then I really hope that some of the most important agreements can come once in the future – that is China and Brazil as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1205	The Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Ukraine is a historically important agreement. Ukraine wants closer economic relations westwards in Europe and looks at an agreement with Norway and the three other EFTA States as part of this. The Free Trade Agreement is important because it ensures Norwegian exporters and investors increased predictability and improved framework conditions in a large and close market. There is a high potential for increased trade and investment flows between Norway and Ukraine. The agreement will help to increase value creation and secure jobs in Norway, not least in the fisheries sector. Fish and fish products are currently the main Norwegian export product to Ukraine. In 2010, these exports amounted to SEK 1.1 billion. NOK, which was 86 pst. of total exports of goods to Ukraine. Norway also has extensive interests in the service sector of Ukraine, where telecommunications is clearly the most important. The agreement with Ukraine is a modern free trade agreement. It includes not only trade in goods, including rules on trade measures and simplification, but also trade in services, investment, public acquisitions, competition and intellectual property rights. What does the trade agreement mean for Norway? In the case of trade in goods, a very good result was achieved which implies the freedom of customs duty on all industrial products, with some minor exceptions. In the case of a small number of sensitive goods, Ukraine will only eliminate its customs duties after a contractually agreed phasing-out period. In addition, some very sensitive products for Ukraine are exempt from the agreement as a whole. In some markets, fish exports have been met by anti-dumping measures. It is therefore of fundamental importance and importance that the parties to this Agreement undertake not to apply anti-dumping measures. In addition, all the fish and all the fish products we export to Ukraine will get zero toll after a certain downtime. Overall, the agreement facilitates increased fish exports. The Free Trade Agreement also provides for better conditions for Norwegian exports of services than provided by the WTO Agreement. For trade in services, Ukraine assumes commitments in addition to those resulting from the WTO in areas of relevance to Norwegian business, including: for telecommunications services, shipping services and maritime insurance services. It provides a good basis for further investment in these markets. It is also important that the trade agreement contains a chapter on investment. The Investment Chapter provides Norwegian investors in Ukraine with the same treatment as Ukrainian investors, with a few specified exceptions. The chapter also provides minimum guarantees against unfair treatment irrespective of the existence of discrimination. The Free Trade Agreement gives us a competitive advantage. Ukraine became a member of the WTO in May 2008. The agreement with EFTA is the first agreement concluded by Ukraine with western industrialized countries. The EU is still negotiating with Ukraine. Not only does the agreement provide better conditions than the WTO, it also increases predictability. It facilitates increased and long-term investment in a part of Europe that is getting closer to Norway. If I can then add the following to the previous two posts: We have a very active work going on in the case of free trade agreements. We have a lot of big processes. We have a close dialogue with the Storting about these processes and a good dialogue on both the current negotiations, and not least on the priorities we have for countries with which we are going to negotiate in the future. So we appreciate the coherence that is in the committee on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1228	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1231	What I intend to address with the Council of States is, of course, what goes on following human rights and other things in some of the countries with which we are entering into free trade agreements, and how we are going to catch up with these different things, not least how to deal with them. uses the legal system in some countries. It has, among other things, to deal with security in dealing with and investing in countries, and then it is important that the link between the political dimension and the judicial system etc. not abused. The questions raised by the Council of State are: What work and assessments are being carried out internally at the level of the EFTA Ministers in order to have some transparency in these negotiations with the various countries? Because it is clear that countries react differently to different demands and discussions. Has a strategy been developed to see how to move forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1238	There are different strategies to safeguard what the representative asks about, namely human rights in other countries, which may not have the same legal system or the same political freedoms that we take for granted here at home. Firstly — and overall — the government believes that increased contact, increased trade, investment and cooperation in itself contribute to a positive development. Isolation is rarely the right thing. On the contrary, we believe that Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian actors contribute to positive development, and open countries are more impactable in the right direction. We have some formulations in the trade agreements that deal with this, which are incorporated into all trade agreements, where I refer to international conventions, etc. But then it becomes very country-specific. There are different ways we're dealing with it. In Colombia, the method became a bilateral approach to human rights on the side of the trade agreement. Elsewhere, it is more incorporated into the trade agreement. It is quite right, as the representative says, that different countries have different views on it and different approaches to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1247	It is true that the Committee has agreed on the Free Trade Agreement. We want to get these away as soon as possible. Now it's taken some time before this came to ratification, but we hope those who are coming are going as fast as possible. There is some disagreement in the nuance around this with human rights in the comments. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said on behalf of the Government, I assume that the situation in Ukraine ‘is of serious concern’ and that ‘the credibility of Ukraine as a rule is challenged’. That's what he did in October this year. Now I see that the government also mentions something about this. Does the Minister for Industry think that the situation is now about the same? Because we from the opposition have expressed in our remarks about the same views that the Minister of Foreign Affairs made in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1254	There is no doubt that the Foreign Minister is speaking on behalf of the government when he expresses his concern. I think more in this context that we have to ask ourselves: what is a trade agreement that can do, and how much can we bring into a trade discussion? We try as far as possible when we have these trade negotiations, to bring in the general principles of human rights, workers' rights, justice, etc. Sometimes we demand, for example: also that a country must join the WTO in order to implement an agreement – it is a discussion we have with Russia – in order to be sure of an international framework for conflict resolution. And then we also want to believe that the dialogue we have with a country opens up a country. But we also have to assume that there is a limit to how much can be achieved through a trade agreement negotiation. Many of these issues of human rights, justice, etc. must be taken as part of the ordinary foreign policy in the dialogue we have both bilaterally and in international bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1262	I agree with the Council of State that what you can bring into a free trade agreement is limited. In this case, however, the government parties themselves have brought in views. Is the Council of State saying that once you bring human rights into such a case as this, you have to be more careful with it in isolation than you would be in other political statements, such as: The Foreign Minister came in mid-October? It sounds like this, that is, at the input of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1267	We are united in the government of our strategies towards different countries and what we want to achieve in our cooperation with them. But then the question is, in which bodies, in which contexts and in which venues is it right to address different questions? We have gone very far, and beyond any government before us, in bringing human rights issues, employee rights – environmental issues too, for that matter – into the trade negotiations. Many countries are very unfamiliar with that. In Hong Kong, I think it was the first time they ever got the environmental dimension into a trade agreement. It wasn't in Hong Kong's traditions. We also do that in the trade agreement with Ukraine, address these questions. Then the Grand Committee will answer for what kind of comments you put in, and in what context you repeat the desire for a democratic and good development in Ukraine. I don't see any problem in the fact that representatives in the committee write it into context here. I just see that as a strength, especially for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is going to pass on this work in its context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1274	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 953]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1292	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1301	The President has explained what this draft representative is all about. Proposalers point to developments in Norway over the past 30–35 years, from the fact that Norway was a relatively homogeneous society until it has become an ethnic heterogeneous society. The proposers further point out that this development has led to major societal changes, both for good and for bad. Furthermore, the proposers point out that it is important for people with different ethnic backgrounds to gather around a set of common values and common rules in order for no one to fall outside. At the same time, the proposers believe that it may seem that Norway has not wanted to talk about it as a unit in the last 30–35 years and what rules of the game should apply to Norwegian society. The question that the proposers consider to be emerging after four decades of immigration is: Has Norway succeeded in integrating? It points to the radicalisation of young people with a minority background. There is a low level of participation among some groups, and one highlights this, among other things. low participation of women in the labour market and poor Norwegian skills, as the proposers see it. In view of this, the proposers therefore believe that a wide-ranging set of integration committees is needed, and the document also sets out a more detailed proposal for a mandate, working methods and composition. The Committee notes the criticisms made by the proposers that the integration policy has focused too much on rights rather than obligations. The Committee considers that meeting immigrants with the expectation that they will learn Norwegian, participate in the professional life and contribute to the community must be seen as a positive ambition for everyone to succeed in Norway if it is facilitated. The relationship between duties and rights makes it apparent that integration is a two-way process — and the emphasis of the Committee — between individuals and society and the minority and the majority. Like the proposers, the Committee also stresses the importance of clarifying our common values, as they do. is expressed through the acceptance of universal human rights, the rules of law and democracy, as well as the right and the possibility to participate in civil society. These are common values that must underpin all further societal developments, including in the field of integration policy. The majority of the Committee considers that it is wrong to conclude unilaterally that the integration policy is flawed. Several investigation committees point to the fact that integration work in Norway – and integration policy – is actually doing quite well. Compared to other OECD countries, immigrants are relatively well integrated into the labour market and a relatively high proportion of Norwegian births take higher education. It is pointed out that development is moving in the right direction. At the same time, it is clear that we have challenges. But one-sided focus on the fact that integration work has been totally unsuccessful, so the majority of the committee disagrees. The majority of the Committee believes that much investigation work has been done in this area. Most recently, both the Brochmann Committee's report and, not least, the Kaldheim Committee's report on better integration were presented, and the Council of State has said that this should lead to a big message. We look forward to debating this important area when that communication comes forward. In other words, there is no need to set up a new broadly integrated integration committee when we already have these reports as well as more reports, and we will also get this message and debate it. Nor do we believe it is appropriate for the Commission to be appointed by the Stortinget as an alternative to the government-appointed investigation committee. The majority refers to Section 14a of the Storting Rules of Procedure, which allows the Storting to set up its own investigation commissions to clarify or assess an earlier actual event. The majority therefore points out that there is no opening to set up committees to develop new policies from the Storting. Finally, I would just like to recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1329	There is a difference between meeting factual resistance and not having freedom of expression. Unfortunately, the proposal we are now discussing goes into the series of examples that the Progress Party does not master this difference. Yes, there has been, and is, disagreement on immigration and integration policy in Norway, but it is not that critics do not come up with it. In the notes, the Progress Party claims that, over the past three decades, anti-immigration votes have been subjected to stigmatisation “were contrary to the intentions of the Basic Law § 100”. Paragraph 100 of the Constitution ensures freedom of expression. Does the Progress Party really believe that someone has not had the freedom to express himself on integration? What have the critical voices wanted to say, which they have not been told? And who are they? Immigration and integration are actively debated in Norway. Many have problematised the multicultural society here in this room and elsewhere. The Progress Party is the second largest party in Britain and has free access to this pulpit. A simple Google search kills the myth of bullying. There are 455000 matches for the combination ‘Party of the Foreground’ and ‘Integration’. I hope that in the course of the debate we can get an answer to what the party really means by the reference to the Constitution. The Workers' Party does not share the reality underlying this proposal. The text of the proposal is permeated by a negative and pessimistic view of integration. It was claimed, among other things, that: in different minority settings, ‘high status to seek out extreme violent environments in other countries’, and ‘monitoring’ what is happening in Muslim religious communities. In danger of being accused of intervening in the freedom of expression of the Progress Party: these are examples of suspicions that do not promote integration. The integration field poses challenges. The proposal affects some of these. There is no need to trivialise discrimination against women or conditions such as forced marriage and sexual mutilation. However, the answer to Norway’s question of integration is yes. The wide-ranging Inclusion Committee recently concluded that ‘policy and instruments have failed to deliver good enough results’. They stress that ‘the available knowledge base, available statistics and other facts show that integration in Norway is largely successful’. Compared to other OECD countries, our immigrants are well integrated into the labour market, and a high proportion of Norwegian births take higher education. The development is going in the right direction. The Labour Party agrees with the proposers on one point: the integration policy must be based on knowledge. This is the background to the government's extensive infringement work in the field. The welfare and migration committee recently delivered a NOU. The committee's task was to analyse the economic sustainability of the welfare model. In June, the Inclusion Committee delivered its inquiry ‘Better integration’. The committee has analysed areas such as work, education, democracy and social participation. NOU 2010:7 Mangfold and mastery and NOU 2009:14 A comprehensive protection of discrimination is other public investigations that have been examined in aspects of integration policy. Overall, these studies represent comprehensive and comprehensive analyses, and a number of new measures and instruments are proposed. It is surprising that the Progress Party believes that what integration policy needs is a new investigation. But I think it's positive that the party is concerned with counteracting segregation. Having said that, I must admit that I am uncertain about the depth of this concern, because in parallel with the consideration of this proposal, the Progress Party has proposed a series of cuts in the area of integration in its alternative state budget. The lot will drop IMDI, they'll cut 100 million. In terms of integration grants to municipalities, they will reduce targeted actions such as free core time and new opportunities, and they will reduce the supply of Norwegian and community skills for adults. In addition, the Progress Party has been a consistent defender of cash support. We have been shown several times that the cash support has an inhibitory effect on the integration of both children and adults. What we see in the integration policy of the Progress Party will have the opposite effect of what is claimed in this proposal – greater integration. Few political fields have been debated so thoroughly, reviewed and investigated as precisely the field of integration. Several public authorities have made good proposals for concrete actions. The Labour Party believes that the integration debate must be about how we can make policy work better, and we disagree with the claim that we have failed to integrate into Norway. Nor do we accept that factual disagreements are stamped as censorship.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1361	Our question of whether we have succeeded in integrating policy is a question that cannot be answered with a simple yes or no. We know that both the Prime Minister and His Majesty the King have pointed out – to put it mildly – weaknesses in Norwegian integration policy. We have to take that seriously. It's okay to compare with other countries and show that we're much better, but it's asking what a comparison is based on. Are other countries very good and we even better, or are other countries very bad and we a little better? There is reason to take integration seriously, and there is reason to take the challenges we face seriously. If we don't, we'll never get a good integration in Norway either. There were doubts from previous speakers about the intentions of the Progress Party with a proposal like this, about our intention to address the challenges of integration. I find it hard to hear from this pulpit. I personally, and the Progress Party, are concerned with integration. We are concerned that we should have a society that works well, where those who come to Norway as refugees and asylum seekers should be able to become part of Norwegian society and function well in Norwegian society – and contribute to Norwegian society, both with its culture and knowledge. So our intentions are actually good -- they're very good. We want to have a society that works well both for us who are ethnic Northmen, and for those who come to the country. Many actors are involved in the integration process in Norway. We have big business and the Ministry of Justice, we have Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, Foreign Service, Police, UDI, UNE, IMDI, Competence Team against Forced Marriage, Vox, SSB, Nav, municipalities plus a whole bunch of non-governmental organisations. What we want is to get a complete review of all of these, call it a review where we get to look at the challenges that are, where we get the opportunity to look at what works well – and also at what doesn't work as well. Once a Commission has gone through the challenges we face, this kind of review and review can come up with precise, concrete proposals for solutions that we in the Stortinget can discuss. The broader the structure of such a body, the larger the range of proposals for solutions, and I think we can also have a much wider debate. It's the Stortinge that's investigating new policies based on what the government is presenting. It may therefore be that such a review and investigation, with subsequent proposals, will help us to get the good, wide-ranging debate that we are going to have and that can turn into good proposals that will give us a policy of integration that works well. Many of the challenges the Progress Party has addressed in its Document 8 proposals are real challenges. The previous speaker indicated that it is high status to have contact with extreme environments. It is a reality, which PST also specifies: we have great challenges with those entering into extreme environments, and among some — some — it gives us a high status of contact with these environments. Work, as I said earlier, is one of the largest social networks we have in Norway. Without work, you stand outside very much of what has to do with Norwegian society. It helps you make friends, it helps you to get into non-governmental organisations, and it helps you integrate well, among other things. language training and experience are much better taken care of. In some immigrant settings, unemployment is high — very high. Then the question is, is this going on purpose, or is there any other thing that contributes? We also know that some of the attitudes to being out of work are like in Norwegian environments – they are inherited. It is also the case in some settings that women are kept out of work. Women are excluded from language training, are excluded from the social network or are excluded from the working environment. Here it's also time to ask the question: why is it like this, and do we really want to do something about it? If we want to do something about it, we need to take concrete action, we need to make concrete proposals, and they need to be implemented. It doesn't just help to have good intentions – it needs concrete suggestions on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1378	The President assumes that, after this intense speech, the representative also wants to address his own proposal. - It's done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1381	It does not seem that today will be the big day of the integration debate, based on the proposal of the Progress Party. There are several reasons why the Right has not chosen to support it. One reason is that, in our opinion, the proposal itself – where the Presidency of the Grand Duchy is going to negotiate with the government to appoint a commission to prepare a new policy – is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, where a nominee appoints review commissions, not commissions that develop new policies. In that case, it would be a constitutional innovation if it were to be adopted. Then that's what others have been up to, namely that we've just got at least two, if not three, NOUs – the very full NOUs of the Brochmann Committee and the Kaldheim Committee – as the State Council Lightbakken now and his department have promised to come back with a big message about. It looks to the Right with anticipation, because I think it is right to say that the Progress Party also has a number of issues in its proposal that it would be natural to discuss then, and on which the Right is absolutely prepared to engage in dialogue. What one gets a sense of both when reading the proposal, and when one hears the recording from Ørsal Johansen, is that much of this is about the soon smallest group of immigrants in Norway, namely asylum seekers, who have come to Norway and been given a residence. On several occasions, the right has expressed — and I would also like to use the opportunity now to strike a blow for it — that what we really need more knowledge about is the large group of migrant workers who are now coming to Norway. It was a district policy debate at Voss during the district development fund's 50th anniversary, which Navarsete called the 50th anniversary of Norwegian district policy, where it was found that without labour migrants, District Norway stops. These included: the rapporteur from the Progress Party in Austevoll, Njåstad, who pointed out that they were doing everything they could to facilitate the well-being and livelihood of labour immigrants in the municipality of Austevoll, because they depended entirely on their workforce in the fishing industry. I have experienced the same thing myself at Fröya, where there are 430 employees at SalMar. 400 of them are foreigners, most of them from Eastern Europe. In the Drammen and in the rest of the country population statistics were just presented. In the drama, we're very proud that we have a high population growth. We want to expand. But what's interesting to see now is that in the last quarter is the number of people with Norwegian citizenship who have moved to the city, 80, and that's 600 with foreign citizenship. The vast majority of these again are Eastern European workers. Now we have a financial crisis in the European Union that makes it clear that people from southern Europe can expect to come to Norway to work, so my challenge to the Lighthouse is that, in the context of the forecasting of integration, he is also beginning to look at labour immigration. How do we make positive use of the resources and capacities of these people? There are many higher education students who come to Norway to work in professions with far less professional qualifications. How can we get used to that labour force in e.g. districts where it is difficult to obtain skilled labour? The right will not support the proposal of the Progress Party now, but looks forward to a wide-ranging integration debate in the context of the Landfill Communication announced by the Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1400	The proposers wish to see a wide-ranging integration commission appointed by the Stortinget under the rules of procedure of the Stortingen Boards for the appointment of investigative commissions. I will not go into the constitutional debate about it, but rather concentrate on the political arguments for choosing the solution that the large majority of the committee has adopted. The aim of such an Integration Commission is, according to the proposal, to study the whole of social development and the different cultural and religious differences that now exist in Norwegian society and to propose a better integration policy for Norway. I believe that a thorough review of integration policy and the challenges of integration is crucial for further policy-making in this area. That is why I have placed great emphasis on acquiring new knowledge and providing a good basis for the Storting to adopt new measures, finding a new direction of integration policy before this period is over. At the initiative of the government, a significant investigation work has already been carried out, in addition to the fact that, among other things: have arranged people's meetings around the country to get input from people living in different parts of our multicultural reality. The Welfare and Migration Committee, the Brochmann Committee, and the Inclusion Committee, also known as the Kaldheim Committee, have provided extensive investigations in 2011. In addition, I would like to mention the study of multilingual children, young people and adults in the training system provided in 2010. The welfare and migration committee’s task was to analyse the economic sustainability of the welfare model and discuss possible measures and strategies to make welfare and labour more robust to tackle migration. The investigation has been at general consultation. 56 hearing opinions have been received, 40 of which have been commented on. In June, the Inclusion Committee then delivered its investigation. The committee has analysed areas such as work, education, democracy and social participation and has made concrete proposals in all these areas. The committee believes that we should have high ambitions, and proposes some 200 measures to improve integration. The investigation, including this one, has been at general consultation. There were 78 hearing opinions – 71 with comments. The Inclusion Committee has also organised four major dialogue meetings in 2010 and 2011, in addition to what we have organised in the Department, just to gather views on and get information on integration policy. Overall, the three investigations and broad consultations have provided us with a comprehensive and comprehensive analysis of both objectives, actions and instruments of integration policy, and we have received many proposals on how policy can become more effective. On that basis, I believe that the time has come to discuss the concrete measures, not to investigate more. That is why I will present a Communication on integrating immigrants into the Storting in 2012. Through the examination of this Communication, the size will gain knowledge of the status of integration policy, but not least will be able to discuss the future design of it and discuss what kind of choices we as society should take. With this in mind, I do not think that there is a need for an integration Commission that is being addressed by the proposers. I notice that there is a broad political consensus on that. After all, the consequence of this proposal would have to be that the government postponed the call for proposals pending a new round of investigations. But I believe that neither the integration policy nor the debate we need between us would be worth it. Otherwise, let me add that I agree with the heart of the representative Håkon Haugli in what he said about freedom of speech and the debate on the debate that the Progress Party has launched recently. The Progress Party is free to say exactly what they want about Norwegian integration policy, but we others also demand our right to say from when we disagree with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1426	As I said in my post, some groups of immigrants have a very low participation in the working life. Correspondingly, the same groups are in other countries very highly represented in the labour market. Can the Council of State have any idea of why this can be so, when the same groups with high unemployment in Norway have low unemployment in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1431	There are differences in different groups and how well they have succeeded, among other things. entering the Norwegian working life. It is important to stress that it may also relate to issues related to living time. A few decades ago, we had a lot of debate in Norway about why the Vietnamese were so poorly integrated into education and working life. Today we regard the Vietnamese-Norwegian minority as one of the most successful. Today, the debate is often about Somalis and other groups. I expect that the representative might refer to the example that has often been used, that Somalis have been quite successful in the United States. It's hard to compare the social model that the United States has, and the one that we have in Norway in these fields. But what I want to say in general is that we have no point of view for Norway to succeed in integration worse than the United States. Therefore, it may also have to do with which immigrant groups have arrived and when they have arrived. Many who come from countries like Somalia and Afghanistan today come from damaged education systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1439	When the Brochmann Committee's report was presented, the Council of State Lighthouse got an opportunity to deal with the cash support that he wanted to do for a very long time. He has now reduced the arrangement so that two-year-olds will no longer receive cash support. One important argument for the Lighthouse was that the cash support had a negative effect on the integration of women and on language training for children. Then it was to be expected that the government, when it provided the budget, would put in enough money, so that there would be babysitting places for all of these two-year-olds who now do not receive cash support. But that's not the case. Funding has been put in for 1,100 new places, while there may be a need for as much as 10,000 new places. Was it not integration, however, that was the point of reducing the scheme? Was it just ideology?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1446	Now it is probably such that the government's view of the cash support and the wish to build it down were known long before the Brochmann committee's report. It is also stated in the Soria Moria II Declaration. But the Brochmann committee was one of many public experts who recommended removing the cash support. It also did the Include selection. Special attention has been paid to those samples that have looked at integration. What made it possible for us to make this change was not the Brochmann Committee's report, but that we have a right to kindergarten, which means that those who need it will have a nursery place. Just this is a bit of an interesting debate, because for many years the Christian People's Party has thought it would be wrong to remove the cash support because these parents won't want kindergarten. Now, the criticism is that the Christian People's Party believes that the effect of what the government has done will be even greater than the government's calculations on the need for new kindergartens. Then we'll see who's right, but the right to babysitting is established, and it applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1455	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1460	The Progress Party has requested the appointment of a wide-ranging Commission to propose a better integration policy in Norway. Different parties have different answers to what is good integration policy. The Labour Party has definitely other answers than the Advance Party in this area. We do not consider the objective of good integration to be a final set of sizes, but which are evolving all the time, with the aim of an increasingly integrated immigrant population. The Labour Party believes that work is the best integration policy instrument in a society. Through work, a natural person enters Norwegian working life. One learns the laws and regulations of Norwegian society, a few workmates and a possible approach to friendship across nationality. By having paid work, one can support himself while at the same time contributing to Norwegian productivity. Furthermore, a workplace is an excellent language laboratory where the language can come naturally. Nevertheless, some ethnic groups are less represented in the labour market than others. It's worrying. Since the Progress Party supposedly wants better integration, the party's attitude towards cash support is very poor. We have hardly any other social system in Norway that has been more prominent as an integration inhibitor. Cash support is used to a greater extent among immigrants than among ethnic Norwegian parents. This means that minority mothers are more at home with their children than other mothers. These children should have been in kindergarten, not least for language stimulation. Cash support inhibits the integration of both mother and child. The working party is opposed to the cash support and wishes to have it removed in the long term. We believe that the cash support is not good, either for one or the other group of parents or for children. If a society is to succeed in integrating new countrymen, language is the main instrument. Without mastering the language of the country, you will always remain in a kind of alienation, where a difficult influence can affect your own situation. Language is the key to understanding a country's culture and society. If a real wish is to improve the integration of our immigrant population, the Progress Party should have allocated more resources to language measures for this group in its alternative budget. We can see that the Progress Party has not done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1475	I only have two questions for the representative of the Progress Party and for those who have proposed that we have a new investigation. If you look at the investigations that I have in front of me here, which are two of those government councillors Audun Lightbakken mentioned, then there are 433 pages in the Brochmann Committee's investigation and 388 in Better Integration – if it wasn't the other way around. So, in total, 821 pages of investigation are about exactly the same things that the Progress Party does not think have been properly investigated. I think that together is over 100 proposals in the two investigations, which are about everything from how to get people to work, what steps to take to ensure that people learn languages, common values that we're going to base on Norwegian society, to how to facilitate better integration into the world of work and civil society. In short, it is all about good integration and how we can get better integration into Norway. Then I wonder, because there's a criticism here of the integration policies of the other parties: if you look at what SV has stood for, then we say very, very clearly that we're going to have a Norwegian society with some basic values that we want to base this society on. It's democracy, it's equality, and it's social cohesion. These values are also part of what is proposed by the Integration Committee with Osmund Kaldheim at the head. We believe that we should have anti-racism as a central work, because we see that there is still racism in Norwegian society – recently documented by a study on how people with Jewish background in Oslo School are exposed to racism. And we're in favour of balancing differences, because we see that very many of the problems that people with minority backgrounds have are problems that they have because they have worse social relationships – not that they have a minority background. Then my question to the Progress Party is very, very simple: what kind of proposal is the Progress Party missing in all the investigations that are here? Does the Progress Party believe that the investigations are too bad, and that the proposals that are being promoted in the investigations are not close to the things that the Progress Party might propose? That's the one question. The Progress Party has said in debates this year that integration policy has failed, as dramatically refuted in the two public investigations that lie here. On the contrary, the studies say that, yes, we do not have enough results in integration policy compared to the resources deployed, but compared to most other countries, it is better. So my second question is: if it is the case that the Progress Party believes that integration policy is flawed, which country in the world has the Progress Party as a model for its integration policy? Which country does the Progress Party think is better than Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1486	I am pleased with the input from the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen, who I think had a slightly different tone than that proposal, the text of the proposal that we are actually discussing. He addresses a number of issues that are problematic in terms of integration, such as inequality and violent extremism. Of course, the working party fully agrees that these are important areas, and action has been taken in these and other areas, and several have been proposed by the above-mentioned samples. But of course we are in a discussion about whether it should be done more, or something else, than what is being done today. However, the representative Ørsal Johansen jumped over my question about how we should understand the reference to Basic Law § 100. Should we interpret silence as an expression of the fact that the Progress Party no longer believes the substantive resistance the party has encountered has been contrary to freedom of expression, that we agree that disunity is not bickering? In that case, it would be great, and it would be nice if the representative could confirm that this understanding is correct – not least on the basis of the fact that we had a party leader from the same party last Wednesday who made the opposite to a main score. If we can put a sentence for that debate, a sentence for the debate on the debate – or the debate on how to deal with the Progress Party – and move on to a debate on integration, then we applaud it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1493	As the representative Olsen was in, work is one of the best integration tools we have. That is what can help those who come to this country to be integrated well. However, it is significant – when we come up with details of how we want to do this, when we look at the measures that have been taken to address, among other things. coercion and sexual mutilation – that no concrete action has been put forward. It is only cooperative bodies, it is only commissions, it is only organisations, who, through conversations and influence and information, are to contribute to the work against coerciveness and gender mutilation. The Progress Party has promoted some concrete proposals in this area, but they have been rejected to those degrees. However, these are proposals which the Progress Party still considers to be in the best interests of combating coercion and sexual mutilation. Regarding the total failure of the integration policy in Norway: the Progress Party has never said that it is totally wrong, but there are major shortcomings in it. And as also the representative Holmås was inside, there are huge sums used for this. We spend a lot more on integration than any other country, and then we don't have better results than what we have. In my opinion, it's fluent. Integration policy in Norway is a good thing – there is no doubt about it – and it is also agreed by the Progress Party. But that's the whole thing that we're questioning, and we still think there's a lot that can do a lot, a lot better. It's kind of wrong to compare with other countries. As the Council of State was in the process of changing lines, the different countries have completely different conditions for the functioning of integration policy. But the representative Holmås called for a country that is better integrated than Norway. Yes: USA. The United States is actually much better. Even The Crown Prince, His Majesty The Crown Prince, has said that there is no one better in integration than the United States, after he was in Berkeley, California, and then how it worked there. I was on a study trip there a few years ago. Then there was a representative from SV who asked Dean at the University of Berkeley: how in every day can you achieve such a good integration? Then he said, "Learn the language." That's the first one. «And when you have learned the language, get work». That's the other one. If you learn the language and get work, it will also be much easier to integrate. However, if you do not need to work because social benefits are so good, some groups will stay out of the labour market and thus out of integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1508	The President will remind you that when you quote, at least the rapporteurs will ask for a source reference. I guess that also applies to members of the royal family. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 953]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1526	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1535	The purpose of the proposalers is to carry out a comprehensive review of the various agents, in order to make some of these representatives supervisory bodies. The proposers consider it difficult to define precisely what is included in the term ‘obligation’, since ‘obligation’ is used in a slightly different way and cannot be said to have any clear legal content. Proposalers are also sceptical that more and more representatives are being sought, and that this could lead to inflation in the ombudsman concept which could weaken the authority of those who are already carrying out their activities. They also realize that it is unfortunate that any group should be able to obtain special representations. The proposers also refer to the Stortinget and the role of politicians as representatives of, in principle, the entire population. A majority of the Committee has come to support the Council of State and the Ministry that there is no need for any specific change in the status quo, except that it is under consideration to look at the Data Protection Authority, which in its heading does not bear the name ombudsman, but which can be said to have performed ombudsman functions, in addition to its statutory obligation to exercise supervision, under the Data Protection Act. I will therefore move on to comment more closely on my party's position on the proposals. Firstly, the Right believes that it is wise in any context, in any organisation, to regularly review and see whether the institution or organisation is functioning in accordance with its objectives and whether it is cost-effective – not least because there has been an ongoing development in which more representatives have been subsequently appointed. It can also be said that the very concept of people's opinion has changed from that of the first ombudsman who went through in public opinion and in people's consciousness – that is, the Ombudsman of the Stortinge for administration, that is, what we call the daily Civil Ombudsman – and later the consumer ombudsman, whose neutral position in relation to party politics cannot be doubted. Where it may be admitted to the proposers that they have a point, there is an increase in the number of representatives who are more likely to deal with and defend special interests. Then they will very often be able to cross the border from being a state agency with the authority it gives, and then it will have to be less so that they find themselves in the middle of the party-political daily discussion. It must also be problematic for these agents, because in other contexts they must be brought to the attention of the public with objective information on the State, on the applicable laws, regulations and rights of individuals. We can see that, over the years, there has been a drift from the fact that the representatives were the small man’s valve to the system – a good example of which the civil ombudsman is a good example – that one sees itself more to be actors in the media that should thus affect the politicians and, in some contexts, actually raise the population, if the population does not act as ideal as politicians in many ways want them to. If it is the case that there is the outcome of a general political commitment to a sector — and there are several examples of this, among other things. Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, who before the previous municipal elections had guidance on what people would vote if they were concerned with gender equality, and they have even gone out with deletion proposals when they did – that’s not what you expect from an institution that bases its life on transfers from taxpayers. I absolutely believe that there is a need for a review and not least a clarification of what the different functions should be, also to direct the audience. That is why we propose that there be a review of the agents, but not a prior order for them to be converted into supervisory bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1548	Do we agree that with the latest wording, the proposal has also been taken up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1551	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1556	The representative Michael Tetzschner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1559	There is reason to be concerned about how democracy works, or whether it is eroded, but the scope of representation is not among the threats to democracy. We have five national ombudsmen's orders: the Ombudsman for Defence, the Civil Ombudsman, the Consumer Ombudsman, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman. Local ombudsmen’s arrangements also exist. The working party does not share the understanding underlying this proposal. We don't have too many agents. The representatives we have are handling their mandates in a good way. They do not contribute to the eroding of democracy, and the desire for more representatives is no problem. The proposers say that ‘democracy is eroded if there is an agent for any situation and for any group that feels bored’. This analysis completely disagrees with the Labour Party. That, for example: consumers, patients or children may seek guidance from different representatives, represent no threat to democracy and do not compete with elected representatives. On the contrary, when the Children’s Ombudsman, based on his contact with the child, raises a case, he gets more attention. It increases the possibilities of penetration. I think the wording and the proposal bear the mark of a ‘each individual’ thinking that lies away from the value base of the Workers' Party. We have just discussed another proposal – on integration – in which the proposers obviously wanted a different policy from the one being pursued. I also believe that this proposal is a good one. It is partly about a desire for a review of structures, but also about disagreement in the mandate of the ombudsmen and the job they do. The rapporteur, Mr Tetzshcner, has just mentioned some of this in the context of the Committee on Gender Equality and Discrimination. It's a neat thing, but it has to be handled differently than through an overall review. Today's ombudsman structure is not nailed once and for all. The Workers' Party considers that the issue of the establishment of representatives and the transfer of representatives to supervisory bodies should be considered on a case-by-case basis. No one wants to be the representative of the Ombudsman's own fault. Role awareness is important and several authorities have both supervisory and ombudsman tasks. They handle it well, but of course it can change over time. Some ombudsmen may become less relevant over time. Perhaps there will be new agents for whom there is no real need. Of course, these are questions that we are open to considering on an ongoing basis and on a case-by-case basis. Most ombudsmen work with individual rights vis-à-vis other individuals, businesses or the public. That such assistance is possible is an important part of democracy and no threat to it or to the role of elected representatives. Fortunately, it is a majority that today stands together to reject this attack on the ombudsman regimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1576	I'm not going to contribute to a long debate, but I want to be allowed to clarify some things. The lot of progress will refer to the examination of the corresponding proposals, cf. Inner. O. No 70 for 2008-2009 and that the Progress Party did not endorse the proposal. However, we would like to stress that support for the proposal now does not provide support to the proposers for their criticism of what they describe as fear of inflation of an increase in the number of deaths and of the death penalty. I want to agree very much with what the representative Håkon Haugli said. For us in the Progress Party, it's the opposite of the various commitments that are important. They have an important role for individuals who experience problems with the public. We have also recorded that the Department has announced a review and a possible breakdown of the Data Protection Authority. The progress party will already signal that we do not share the department's view of splitting up the Data Protection Agency. But we look forward to the review that will come, because we believe – in the same way as the representative Tetzschner – that it is important to have a review of the various commitments once in a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1585	In this case, the terms ‘committee’ and ‘supervisory’ have been highlighted as two issues. The content of the terms has to be reviewed and discussed at regular intervals to check that we put the same thing into the meaning of the word. In the letter from the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church at the Council of State, we have received the contents of the Ministry in the terms: ‘Surveillance are authorities which monitor and monitor compliance with the rules of law. Supervision is usually carried out by checking that different establishments operate in line with the legislation applicable to the activity in question. In the event of non-compliance with the legislation, supervision may take decisions according to which the subjects of supervision must comply.’;» In the case of ‘obstructor’, they place this meaning in it: ‘They have the task of taking care of the interests of individuals or groups, preferably linked to the exercise of public authority.’ The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that the elected representatives should have an ombudsman role and be the citizens' voice in the social debate. But it's such a comprehensive task that it should be recognized that having someone who acts as a permanent listener over time and gives input to politicians without being perceived as a democratic problem. At the same time, there must be a conscious view that there should be a common understanding of the content of the concepts of supervision and representation, and that such understanding of the concepts of the Council of State is likely to be, and that the tasks and role understanding are developed in line with that of the Council of State. The Christian People’s Party does not support the proposal for a comprehensive review of the mandates and supervision in order to make the mandates available to supervisory bodies. However, there should be a more consistent division of roles and uniform use of words in order to make it easier for the public to see what can be expected from the relevant Ombudsman or supervisory authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1604	In the Centre Party, we are concerned that individuals in Norway should have good and effective help if they encounter public problems. Ombudsmen, supervision and elected representatives play different roles as spokespersons for the individual citizen, and all have the important functions of a living government. In the case of a pragmatic centre party, it is essential that the relationship between these bodies is marked by balance and a good and efficient job waste. We do not share the rapporteur's view that there is a danger that there will be an ombudsman for any situation and that the role of elected representatives of their voters is threatened. We as deposit representatives have understood our ombudsman role. We are, and should still be, the voice of citizens in the social debate, especially those citizens who themselves are not so easily available or who themselves are unable to formulate their case. In a modern and complex society, I see it as an advantage that there are several bodies talking about citizens. We're complementing each other more than we're competing with each other. The centre party feels confident that there is ongoing assessment of all aspects of our ombudsman and supervisory bodies, both number and functioning, although there is a constant need to assume that there is potential for improvement in all aspects of society. I feel confident that, in the case of the possible termination of an agent, the conversion of an agent to supervision, or if it would be appropriate to set up new agents, it should be assessed individually on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1613	The previous speaker used the entrance of the centre in terms of democracy and the tradition of the centre when it came to the rule of the people. Then the conclusion was a little strange given the position that the center has usually had in the eyes of elected representatives. To clean up completely at first, I just have to say: as the civil ombudsman has a completely separate position in the Norwegian legal system, Norwegian bureaucracy and all these institutions, I believe this is a little outside the debate we have today. I believe that those who represent a democracy are the ones who have been elected. They're the ones who're set to be an agent. I believe that the ombudsman's role as a concept must be suspended and taken care of. Now it's not everyone who has the right to vote in a society. That is why I also believe that the Children’s Ombudsman has a special role, because the Children’s Ombudsman represents children, who do not have the right to vote in Norwegian democracy – just to put a bit of a frame around it. Time and again, when something happens that challenges us as politicians, the answer is to make an agent. For example: a year ago, when everyone's mailbox was flooded with stories about Nav, we were going to make a Nav agent, so that politicians wouldn't get these e-mails that took a lot of time to respond to. If we're going to deal with something about school, we think we're going to have a student representative. In addition, we need a bully to deal with all the bullying in school. It is not, in fact, the area where there has not been an ombudsman's proposal, from any party in this Chamber. I don't think the agents always manage to be the little man's defender. I sometimes believe that good elected representatives can be much better than the little man's defender. I know that from my own experience trying to guide people through the bureaucracy that the agents make around. For the rights-thinking process – the belief that we should build a democracy based only on the rights of individuals – is proving to be the most unfair to the weakest, because they do not even discover the rights they have. As far as our right thinking is concerned, the power investigation as a main objection to this hall had been that one repeatedly creates a right thinking where only those with the most resources are able to cash in their rights. To put it correctly: a few years ago, the Joint Organisation of Disabilities set up a rights phone where everyone could call in and ask about their rights related to all kinds of harassment. Of those who called, almost all parents were with disabled children. No one who had mental distress called and wondered about their rights. You must have someone who breaks out – someone who runs your case. I have personally held people in hand to the meeting with the Civil Ombudsman to get through their case. We are undermining this by constantly creating new agents, new bureaucratic systems, new difficult systems that make it harder and harder for individuals to get through. My objection is not that I disagree with what the Ombudsman has meant. We have to remember that the Equality Ombudsman was the Left's idea. The first equality officer was Eva Kolstad – the last female party leader in the Left – a lady I have deep respect for. It is also a recognition that if you compare Norway with other Nordic countries, we have an equality debate that, in order to get it up, almost has to be kicked off with triplets, while there are live equality debates in other Nordic countries. We have a consumer policy that is not really being discussed in this room anymore, because there are a lot of representatives who manage the debate related to consumer policy. Then we make a huge mess of the terms. We have a gender equality agency to take care of the little man, the little man and the woman who is being trampled on, while at the same time they are set to manage a code and are going to judge by that code. Here it's a huge mess about the roles. I think we're going to have the ombudsman role, that's what politicians have, in addition to those who manage it without the right to vote, and the civil ombudsman. Then we have to have supervision that has to take care of other parts. But politicians still have to be politicians, and it's our damn duty to take care of the man in the street when he gets bored by the big systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1635	I must admit that when the proposal came, I thought that this was a somewhat strange proposal. It was so creepy that I waited to take the floor again after Trine Skei Grande had had the word, so that I would see if I understood a little more. And I've understood a little bit more of the intention of Trine Skei Grande, which is, as I see it, that you have to be careful so that you don't end up in a position where it's like the politicians' ombudsman role is getting confused and gone. To that I really only have one thing to say, and that is that I agree with Håkon Haugli that we are not near being there. Instead of asking the government to review all the ombudsmen and come back with an attitude about which agents to be converted to supervision, there would have been much better – and more tidy for today’s debate – about the Left and Step Skei Grande proposing which representatives they wanted to lay down, or about which one thought: These ombudsmen have a wrong role today. She was in on someone. I think it is good that we have consumer representatives, and I must admit that I do not think that consumer matters are away from the public debate. I do not think they are away from the debate in Stortinget either. Now I – and we are more – am working on a matter of rights, consumer rights in the sale of housing, a very exciting issue, an important debate that has often been debated in the newspapers. Many from both the government parties and others have been out discussing it. But I believe that there is nothing to suggest that we do not need a consumer representative to whom it is actually possible to address in the individual cases where you need to do so. I am very happy that as a politician I do not have the role of dealing with all the consumer issues that individuals have, when they are in disputes, and when they have problems with the purchase they have made. I'll be brief. We are voting against the proposal. We are also voting against the somewhat moderate proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, which does not mean having a review with a view to converting some representatives into supervisors. Instead, you say that you want an overall review of the various agencies and supervision. I have to admit, I don't quite get the point. Michael Tetzschner argued why it's a good idea, but I don't think the arguments are heavy enough for us to start a process with it. I think, as I just said, that Trine Skei Grande and those who may agree with her should instead go into the specific representations that are considered unnecessary or have played out its role – I do not ignore the fact that some representatives of time may have done so – and say: These representatives do want to be removed. Besides that, I don't have any more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1651	It is an interesting debate that is drawn up in the proposal for a representative from the Skei Grande and Tenden. I replied to the committee by letter of 30 May that I felt that the issue being raised should be assessed on a case-by-case basis, and that there is no need for a special review of the representatives and the supervision with the aim of making the representatives of the supervisory bodies. That's how we have a series of oversights today, and we have four clean representatives. It is the representative of Stortinget, the Ombudsman for Civil Protection, the Ombudsman for Patients and Users, the Ombudsman for Defence and the Ombudsman for Civil Protection. Then we also have four combined agents and supervision. These include the Children’s Ombudsman, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, the Consumer Ombudsman and the Data Protection Supervisor. I would like to use the opportunity to stress that I am concerned with the issues raised by the two representatives in their proposal. Let me therefore also take advantage of the opportunity here in Stortinget to elaborate on some of the things I see as particularly interesting in the recent debate on supervision and representation. As I see it, supervision and representation are two basic different types of businesses. As has been said, an oversight has the task of monitoring and monitoring compliance with the rules of law. If this is not the case, the supervision may take decisions to which the supervisory objects must comply. From an old age, we know the Labour Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate as supervisory bodies. From a recent date, we have the Post and Telecommunications Authority. Ombudsmen, on the other hand, are a less uniform activity. Ombudsmen may take only limited decisions and may, to a small extent, impose penalties in the event of non-compliance. The ombudsmen also have the task of informing the opinion and being the perpetrators of the groups and stakeholders to which they are responsible. The ombudsmen may be independent control bodies which follow up complaints, but they may also deal with cases on their own initiative. They deal with conflicts, take care of special interests, and in recent times, several of the ombudsmen have often taken on the role of attitude creators. As long as an enterprise is either an oversight or an agent, I believe that the situation is manageable. The challenges may arise if there is a lack of clarity as to whether an enterprise is one or the other. As I assess it, it is only in a few cases such a problem might be relevant. The Directorate for ICT and Administration, Diffi, mentions the Data Protection Agency, the Children’s Ombudsman, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Consumer Ombudsman as examples of cases where such doubts may arise. Divi is in the process of a major review of independent exercise of authority. As an element of this work, there is also an assessment of the independence of supervision. Although I do not now see the need for a review of all the inspections of the purpose proposed by Skei Grande and Tenden, I look forward to the results of diffi's further work on these issues. Divi has also, as most people are familiar with, recently evaluated the Data Protection Authority. These include: the tension between the supervisory role and the ombudsman role. Digi calls for clarification of the ombudsman role of government agencies. As Minister of Administration, I am concerned about how the administration works, and I agree that these are important issues. The representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden also address another important issue, namely whether we have been too uncritical in setting up ombudsmen, and the relationship between the ombudsman role and the role of elected representatives. Have the ombudsmen taken on a role traditionally performed by the people’s own representatives, and what should this have, if any, in assessing whether each ombudsman performs his/her role in accordance with the assumptions? I also think that is an interesting debate, which we have to take with us when we are going to assess how many representatives and supervisors we are going to have. Both supervision and the Ombudsman perform important functions in our society, and it is therefore necessary to be open to assessment and debate about the needs to be met and the way in which tasks are resolved. I believe that it is best if we assess the specific cases and evaluate the functions of the specific agents and supervisors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1680	I register that the department has notified of any sharing of the Data Protection Authority. The Committee was recently at a meeting with the Data Protection Authority, and in my opinion, we received a clear signal from the Data Protection Authority that they did not want a sharing of the Data Protection Authority. A sharing of the Data Protection Agency will, in my opinion, be able to powder the responsibility, but what the Progress Party and I see as perhaps the worst, is that it can contribute to increasing bureaucracy. Has the Council of State already formed a vision here, or will the Council of State listen to what the Data Protection Authority thinks?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1689	I have not decided what I believe about the evaluation report that we have received from the Data Protection Authority. What I think is right is that we have evaluated the Data Protection Authority. It's an institution that's been working for 30 years, and it's never been evaluated, so it's important to evaluate that kind of public body. Then we have announced that we will provide a big message about privacy during 2012. It is therefore appropriate to carry out an evaluation of the Data Protection Authority. In the evaluation provided by diffi, it is precisely at the heart of today’s debate that the Data Protection Authority is both the Ombudsman and the supervisory authority and also carries out a number of administrative tasks that would normally have been added to a Directorate. I am still uncertain whether it is appropriate that we have at least three – perhaps four – types of work tasks added to the Data Protection Authority. I will evaluate the report from Divi in a thorough manner before I conclude, and before I make a recommendation to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1700	First, I would like to say that I really think the Council of State made a good contribution, with reflections that were much more intertwined than those of some of the representatives of the government parties that we have heard here today. But what worries me is when someone, for example. sees a mixture of the ombudsman role and the supervisory role, that one can judge and have an ombudsman role at the same time, such as: The gender equality and discrimination Ombudsman, who has an ombudsman role in which, in my opinion, one would like to be able to participate in and create major debates – even if things I disagree with very much – but then one should also be the judicial authority. Doesn't the Council of State see that these blends can be unlucky?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1707	That's just one of the reasons why I now want to look at the Data Protection Authority. I have registered that there is now a NOU on the organisation of the equality device – I don't know exactly what the NOU is called – and there you point to these issues. I expect that the Department and the Stortinget will have a good opportunity to discuss these issues in order to assess any changes in the organisation of the gender and discrimination area in Norway in the future. I think it's important that we keep these areas in focus. That is exactly why I believe that each department has to go into its areas. There are, after all, so few representatives in so few, but nevertheless quite different areas covered, that it would be best for each department to make a concrete assessment on the basis of the individual duties of each agent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1714	I agree that we don't have very many agents today, sail if I believe we have 169 sitting just here. And in many local governments, we have thousands of others, who also have an important ombudsman role. However, there has been no lack of proposals for representatives, nor has there been a lack of proposals for all kinds of representatives in this Chamber. I am concerned about the programming process in the individual parties, where all problems need to be solved only if we have a representative. It would have been interesting to hear if the council has any thoughts about whether there are any matters that she considers to be too small to get its own representative at all. Are there any limits to the introduction of new ombudsman roles in the flood we see in the political debate, where all the challenges are to be solved by getting an ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1721	It could have been tempting to assure Trine Skei Grande that I have no plans to evaluate the 169 agents in this room. I share her view that it might be problematic if it gets so that we're going to set up a representative for any problem. Then we want to dilute the ombudsman function. That is why it is important to insist that representatives should be somewhat restrictive. But once again, I think it needs to be assessed a little bit based on the individual situation. In some contexts, we have also set up our own judicial bodies that address very specific areas. At least you'll have to go through very carefully to see that you don't get a dubulation and a ambiguity between the agents and the courts. So yes, I share the idea that one should be somewhat reluctant to create new agents, but it will always depend on the specific situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1730	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1736	Proposalers raise two issues in the proposal: the issue of the difference between ombudsmen and supervisors, and the left considers that there is an increase in the number of ombudsmen. To me it was unclear what Left meant by it, until I heard Trine Skei Grande's posts. When she came up with the example of creating a Nav agent, I find it difficult to discuss, because it is actually not established a Nav agent. It's part of the word change that none of us should limit, whether the agent or the supervisor should be discussed. I do not share the concern of the proposers that ombudsmen can erode democracy and take over the tasks of the elected representatives. They're the opposite of a supplement. Different representations and supervision constitute, and do, important control work and take care of different interests for individuals or groups. Examples used here are the Children’s Ombudsman or the Equality Ombudsman. The patient ombudsman is another example, because it in a way targets both individuals — i.e. single patients — and patients as a group. I can agree that it would be unfortunate if the volume of representations increased sharply, but the debate in the Chamber today has clearly shown that it is not desirable on the part of the government. It is also unfortunate if it is unclear whether the body is an agent or a supervisor. That's why we have a responsibility for always having a critical look at the need to create new agents and supervision. Here I refer to the representative Håkon Haugli's posts. However, I would point out that the ombudsmen have an important role to play in caring for people's interests. That consideration needs to be taken into account, and therefore a specific review of the mandates would not be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1747	I share the views of the Council of State that this has been an interesting debate, and that the positions may not be as firm as you might initially believe. I don't think the Council of State will miss seeing all the representatives in the context, if you're busy tightening up the names. This means, of course, that you put individual agents next to each other and see what most distinguishes the function of the institution in question. Is there supervision under a specific law, where you have to deal more formally with Norwegian law? Or is it the driving role, where, as I was in my first post, very often gets hurt to interfere in general political debate? The Ombudsman has no particular authority — and should not have it — in the social debate. I think the author of the proposal, Trine Skei Grande, gave good examples of precisely why the use of language should be tightened up. There's important information for the audience, so you know what to expect when you contact an agent. Skei Grande was also concerned with the issues that lie in the fact that in many contexts there are rules on how to deal with complaints, and where it is really the complaint element – having a case tried, having it complained – which is the innermost core of the ombudsman’s designation. Then I think there might be some good guidance in describing the competent authority as a complaint body, not as an agent. Moreover, there is also a problem here for which politicians have to take some responsibility. You operate yourself, not least in election campaigns, with rights and guarantees that are neither rights nor guarantees under close scrutiny. Unfortunately, I have to go back to the election campaign, to the Labour Party's and Prime Minister's cancer guarantee. Only 20 days after cancer was detected until treatment was started. Turns out it's not 100 pst, it's 80 pst, and then it turns out it's just a goal. Then it is clear that if you had taken your own words seriously, you would have made a guarantee, written it into the law, and it would have given complaints to a complaint body. When you produce rights, you should also think about whether people, ordinary users, have the legal opportunities to pursue the rights written into the law, so that it doesn't just become paper warranties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1760	I drew myself to clarify a misunderstanding in Trine Skei Grande's posts, but I see that she is no longer in the room. It is the claim that we have had a flood of agents that I felt the need to comment. I also want to refer to the articles of the Council of State. She tells us that we have four ombudsman arrangements and four combined supervisory and ombudsman arrangements. With all due respect, there is no flood. I also think it is important to point out that there is no criticism that different groups or individuals are calling for ombudsman arrangements. There is nothing wrong with it, but it is Storting’s job to assess whether ombudsman arrangements should be established. It is an important distinction, which the proposer obviously has not got along with it. I think the other debate shows that there is not so much real distance on some points. We agree on a lot, not least that today's structure is not fixed forever, and that ombudsman arrangements of course must and must be evaluated. When it comes to how we evaluate, I mean – as I said in my first post – that it's going to be completely wrong to evaluate them together. They do not constitute a collective, uniform organisation. It's not one organization. The parallel of an enterprise evaluation of itself is limping. Then there's a part that we disagree with. From the Labour Party we do not believe that we have too many representatives. We believe that the ombudsmen actually handle role-sharing in a good way. We are faced with a clearer demarcation between supervisory roles and ombudsman roles, but will only again reject the fact that the ombudsman erodes democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1771	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 954]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1779	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1803	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposal is converted into a transmission proposal and is worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to Stortinget with its own case concerning the strengthening of export control of defence equipment, with the aim of tightening up risk assessments and preventing exports to authoritarian regimes.’ The President proposes that this proposal be transmitted to the Government without a trial of reality – and considers it to be acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1824	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e1977	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The European Council calls on the Presidency, in cooperation with the Government, to propose the appointment of a wide-ranging Commission with a mandate to draw up proposals for a new and integrated integration policy.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e2004	During the debate, Michael Tetzschner put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the various agencies and supervisory bodies.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-29.ana.ud1120e2035	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
