ParlaMint-NO_2011-08-01.ana.ud794e40	Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, dear assembly. We will forever be remembered July 22, 2011 as a dark day in Norwegian history. Our country was struck by terror. 77 people were killed. Many were critically or seriously injured, and the evidence from the survivors is heartbreaking. What we've experienced together is still not possible to grasp. It was an attack on our people's rule, on our values and on our community. An entire nation feels pain and rest. The world around us surrounds the grieving. Some of the Stortingets' representatives were also on Ut Island. And some are close relatives. On behalf of a total collapse, I would like to express our deepest condolences to all those who are affected by the tragedy of the government quarter and Ut Island. Without the heroic efforts of those in place, both in Oslo and on Ut Island, terror could have had even more victims. On behalf of the Stortinget, I would like to thank the police, health professionals, fire services, non-governmental organisations, municipalities and individuals very much. I would like to thank the neighbors and people at the campground in Utvela, who, without any thought of their own safety, walked in the boats and brought youth from Utöla in safety. AUF youth even showed heroism and rocking their comrades. You set it up when it was the most applicable. You saved a lot of lives. Thanks to each of the heroes. I will send the people's warm thanks to the King and the Queen and to The Crown Prince and The Crown Princess. You've been with us in grief. When we have no words, you have formulated our thoughts and feelings. I know I've got a total mass and the whole people behind me when I thank the Prime Minister especially and his entire government for the way they've led the nation through the most critical situation we've experienced in peacetime. The government quarter is shattered, but the government of the country is not broken. I would also like to express my gratitude for the inter-political cohesion we have seen from all the leaders of the parties. The government and the AUF were the targets of terror. All democratic parties feel hurt. One of the things that has attracted international attention is the absence of revenge thoughts in the Norwegian people. When we were tested, we showed through action which nation we want to be. The entire Norwegian people have mobilized and stand together across generations, political stature and religion. In the days following the disaster, hundreds of thousands have been in the streets. A mighty sea of light and flowers waves across the country – a roaring yes to cohesion and solidarity with those who have been hit, and a roaring no to violence and terror. No one should underestimate the power and will behind the markings. I feel great humility toward the people who have chosen us. It's a privilege to lead a people who together choose the right course. That is precisely why, even when the nation has suffered great human losses, we must stick to the democratic principles on which our society is based. It's natural to feel rage over the grievances. But even when it costs, our answer should be based on the ground of the rule of law. We must turn our minds to strength. The French 19th century philosopher Voltaire said the following to an opponent of opinion: I disagree with your views, but until recently I will defend your right to claim them. There shall be room for strong and different opinions — including outrageous opinions. Additional views must be confronted and combated with counter-arguments, not censorship. But it is also a societal task to counteract that extreme statements lead to acts that violate or harm other people. Such acts shall be pursued in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. When we meet hatred for those who are different, our answer should be to cultivate diversity. We don't have to be afraid of those who believe in anything other than ourselves, but of those who hate different thinking. We are rightly proud of our open and secure societies where it is normal for people to meet politicians face to face on streets and squares in everyday life. Terrorism must not lead to a greater distance between the voters and the chosen ones. The direct contact between the people and the elected representatives is fundamental to our representative democracy. That's how we still want it. We're still going to have it that way. The people shall be governed by the servants of the people. A strong impression from the last days is the message from the young survivors, the message that terror must not lead to hatred, but to more love, not to fear, but to commitment, not to fear, but to participation. We are many who have made the word of youth ours. Now, together, we have to take responsibility for making words into action. A lot has already happened. People have streamed out into the streets, walked on trains, put down flowers, lights and baby bills. Prest and imam have stood side by side. All parties’ youth organisations experience that many will register and participate. Democracy has proved to be strong and decisive when it was the most important. Elections are the most important act of democracy. No matter what people will vote, it is important that they vote, even at the time of the harvest. Building democracy is building community. It's a task for all of us, by putting up for the kids' football games, by participating in the hard work of the court team, by caring about those who have it hard, and by meeting other people with transparency and respect. We can listen to those who are different instead of stigmatizing them. And we can think through how we as individuals can contribute to increased understanding and respect for each other. Positive changes are difficult to achieve, especially if we believe that only the others will change. Maybe on this occasion, we should start by giving some time to think about whether there's something I should change in order to contribute to more understanding between people. Perhaps we, too, who are politically elected, should walk in ourselves and think through our own role. Democracy requires dissent and fresh debate. We need sharp opinions. But is it sometimes that we misunderstand our opponent against better knowing? Is it sometimes we interpret him in the worst sense, or are we tempted to comment without checking what she or he has actually said? Maybe we should think about what words we're using. Do we always be careful to express ourselves in such a way that everyone feels included in society, that everyone feels like part of the great we? Haldis Moren Vesaas said in 1945, and we're saying it today, "It's not my name: it's me now anymore. After that, it's called "we." Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, love all. We have heavy days behind us. There are many heavy days ahead of us. We must continue to show care for the relatives for months, this year in the future. We must continue to develop democracy. The Norwegian people have answered cold acts with heartwarming attitudes. One sentence has concocted our national consciousness. On its journey around the globe it has shown the world the best in our youth. Let's jointly commit ourselves to living up to the message from AUF-girl Helle Gannestad: If one man can create so much hate, think how much love we can create together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-08-01.ana.ud794e145	Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, President. The Norwegian people were put on an irrevocable test on July 22. The map was blown, the compass shot in fillers. Each had to choose his path in a landscape characterized by shock, fear and despair. It could've ended up wrong. We could have gone wild. But the Norwegian people found out. Out of the darkness and uncertainty we returned to Norway again. I would like to thank you for that today. We're still a country in mourning. Now we bury our dead from the government quarter and Ut Island. Parents wake up at the hospital beds. A lot of people cry. Hearts bleed. We shall continue to comfort those who need to mourn, give care to those who labor, honor the dead. But in addition, it's time to say thank you. I would like to thank His Majesty the King, His Royal Highness The Crown Prince and the entire royal family for their warm participation and presence. I thank the Storting for the ability and willingness to stand together when the nation needed unity. There are many others who deserve to be thanked: the police, the fire and rescue department, the health staff, the defense, the civil defence, the Norwegian Church and other religious and life views, non-governmental organisations, volunteers who made an invaluable effort in the government quarter and in the Utøya, employees in the departments concerned, the staff of the Sundvolden Hotel and all those who acted resolutely from the shores of the Tyrifland. Many put their own lives in jeopardy. Sunday August 21st, we will salute their courage under a national memorial for those who are hit, and all those who helped. I would also like to thank for the kindness and condolence of a whole world – for letters, flowers, support on Facebook and other social media. As a nation, we have felt that we are not alone. It gives strength. The warmest thanks go to the Norwegian people – who took responsibility when it was demanded, who retained the dignity, who chose democracy. And the greatest among the people are the young. The AUF was shot at. But a whole generation stood up in tearful protest. The 22nd of July is our heroes and our hope. They enable us to look forward with renewed faith in our fundamental values and with the hope that the sprout of more decent dialogue and more tolerance will take root. Many of us use grief to stop and think about our own attitudes – to reflect on what we've been thinking, saying and writing. With July 22 as ballast, it could obviously be something we wish we had formulated differently, which we will in the future express with greater sensitivity. You're welcome. I would like to ask from this speaker that we not start a witch-hunt on comments. The relationship we've shown in these unreal days, still calls for roughness. We all have something to learn from the tragedy. We may all need to say, ‘I was wrong’ – and be respected for it. This applies in the everyday conversation and in the public room conversations. This applies to politicians, editors, cantinas and online. That's true of all of us. Our promise is that we will take with us the spirit of July 22 when the political working day begins again. We're going to act with the same wisdom and respect as the Norwegian people. With the free word as weapons and in the spirit of this hall, we shall bring together human dignity and security over fear and hatred. We owe that to the Norwegian people. Heir Tellefsen argued ‘A mother’s prayer’ by Ole Bull and ‘Gabriels obo’ by Ennio Morricone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-08-01.ana.ud794e198	Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, honoured co-representatives. 77 people lost their lives in terrorist acts in Oslo and Ut Island. The dead are: Gunnar år år, 23 years, Bardu Hajdad år år 29 years, Sandy år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år år ska år år år år år år år år år år år år år ås ås ås å år år ska å å å å å å å å å ska å å å å å å å å å å å å ska å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å ska å ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska å å ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska ska å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å å I light peace over the memory of the dead and ask for one minute's silence. The representatives heard the speech of the standing president of the names of the dead.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-08-01.ana.ud794e448	Thank you. Mr Tellefsen presented Mr Melankoli’s and Mr Ole Bull’s Sunday. The assembly then sang the first verse of the national anthem, ‘Yes, we love’.
