ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e26	The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. The request for welfare leave by the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is submitted from 16 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative of the More and Romesdal counties, Torgeir Dahl, is hereby convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e49	Torgeir Dahl is present and will take the seat. The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e54	On behalf of the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to implement an action plan against Jewish hatred in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e59	The representative Peter N. Myhre will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e62	On behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Ivar Kristiansen, Svein Flötten and myself, I am delighted to present representative proposals for the early deployment of the Norwegian military contribution to the Gulf of Aden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e67	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e79	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. Then we start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e88	For exactly three months we were in spontaneous questioning and discussing care for the elderly. It was just after the government had launched the so-called older billion. The Prime Minister then stated in this Chamber that this extra billion would lead to a strong expansion of the care of the elderly. It was also true that the spokesperson of the Workers' Party, Tore Hagebakken, said that he was sure that the municipal politicians would give priority to the elderly with these means. The truth has taken time for TV 2 to reveal in the last few days. It is that the Labour Party's own municipal politicians do not give priority to this. In fact, less than half have given priority to care for the elderly, while others have given a completely different priority. But in the same debate and the exchange of words with me, the Prime Minister said: ‘We are now managing care for the elderly in the same way that we manage the school.’ But that's not true. Because when our children reach school age and meet at school, they get school places. It is not that we get tearful headlines in the media about parents and children who come up to school and don't get school places, but are told that they have to come back next year – thank God. But that's still the reality of the country's older people. The reality of the country's elderly people is that they have been given a guarantee that they live in a municipality that has built up the care of the elderly, or that they live in a municipality that has not. Unvalued game has to end now. Therefore, my challenge to the Prime Minister is: When will he and his government ensure that all those in need of dignified care and care around this country receive treatment on the day of the need?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e100	I am pleased that the representative, Siv Jensen, is addressing the care of the elderly, for one of our most important tasks and challenges in the years to come is to expand the care and care supply, so that everyone who needs it gets the care and care they need. Just because there are shortages in the care and care sector, including in the care of the elderly, the government has presented a comprehensive escalation plan based on a broad older settlement here in Stortinget, which is about expanding care provision in municipalities until 2015. We're doing great with those plans. We've done several different things. One thing we have done is to increase the free income of municipalities. It's true that a billion extra kroner came just before Christmas, but that's in addition to the 46 billion they've already received. So the municipalities have had a significant increase in both free and earmarked funds in recent years. This has led to an increase, the expansion of the offer. But we're not on target. That is why we will continue to step up this year, next year and forward towards 2015. So we have significantly increased the free resources – they can be used for care and care, but of course also for other things – and in addition, we have increased the earmarked grants, at the latest by increasing these grants for the development of nursing homes and nursing homes by 40 p.m., with effect from 1 January this year. Then we've focused more on competence and content, and we've notified a bill to allow the guarantee of dignity, which says that everyone is entitled to a necessary and worthy care. And those who don't get it can complain. There is one difference between school and care for the elderly, and it is that all children go to school, but it is not that all the elderly go to hospital — they go to the hospital for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e111	The problem is that those who need it do not get the offer when the situation arises. I also referred to – three months ago – a look in the World Gang similar to what I am now considering, namely that the billionaire that was then granted ended up going to purchase computer equipment and other things, instead of caring for the elderly. So we had that situation 20 years ago, we still have that situation. And that's because we from Stortingets and the government almost later as if we're responsible for the care of the elderly, but when the problems become visible, then we owe it to the municipalities. We must decide: Should the responsibility for the care of the elderly be in the municipalities, or should the responsibility for the care of the elderly lie with the care of the elderly? I believe that the elderly in the country have a right to have a clarification, because they feel that this matter is at the top of the agenda for each election. So my question to the Prime Minister is, Is he satisfied that his own municipal politicians do not give priority to the development of the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e120	The overall responsibility for Norwegian care for the elderly – as for Norwegian school, as for other municipal services – lies in Stortinget, because the Stortinget adopts the laws, and the Stortinget adopts the appropriations. But that doesn't mean we're not going to have a cooperation and a division of labour between states and municipalities. The division of labour is that we adopt the laws, the municipalities get money, and then they expand – whether it is school or care for the elderly – according to the laws and regulations we have adopted. In the care of the elderly, there is thus a sharp increase – many thousands of new annual works. We're not in target, but we're in good shape. The second is that we improve the law so that those who do not receive the necessary care can complain and get it. This is also true in many other areas, namely that the Stortinge adopts the laws, the right to appeal, and if you do not get the offer you want, you can complain. So we're doing very well, and it's precisely because we're not satisfied that we've put forward and followed them up with comprehensive escalation plans. And it's not a billion -- it's almost 50 billion. kr more to the municipalities in free and earmarked income.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e129	There will be three follow-up questions – first Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e132	I must be allowed to pursue this matter, because I do not think we received a very good answer. Fortunately, every harvest we experience that all the hopeful six-year-olds have a place for school, even though it is not compulsory for school in Norway. So none of them are told that it is a bad local economy, so come back next year. No one is told that you do not get school space, but you can get home visits for a couple of hours a week. At the same time, sadly, we see newspaper headlines about nursing, sick elderly people – 80 and 90 years old – who get a rejection of what they should have. I think this is unworthy, and I cannot with my best will understand why it should be so. So I want to ask the Prime Minister if he can give me one single good reason why sick, nursing elderly people shouldn't have the same right to a nursing home place that every six-year-old has in a school place?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e141	Sick, nursing elderly people have legalized the right to care, and we improve and strengthen the access to justice and the law around this. It is not the case that in Norway you should go around and need the necessary health care without getting it. If you don't get it, you should and you should complain. It is enshrined in today's law, and we improve and strengthen this law. But there's, as I'm trying to say, a difference here: all six-year-olds go to school, but all the older people don't go to nursing homes. Fortunately, most elderly people are healthy, up-and-coming people who don't need care, and what you need varies greatly. For some people might spend a couple of hours at home a week, for others it's best to get some home care, others maybe nursing homes, some people have to go to a nursing home. The variation, what they need – there should be professional assessments here. So we have legalised the right to the necessary healthcare in Norway, and that of course also applies to the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e151	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e154	When you know the background for this billion and how it's used, you might want to be honest and call it the TV 2 billion instead of the older billion. When the Prime Minister is confronted with these questions, he answers all the way – both on TV 2 and here in the Questionnaire – that those who are dissatisfied can complain. What, then, is the background for the government now presenting a draft new municipal health and care law, where one actually cuts off the appeal body's ability to take decisions? This means, in fact, that one has the right to complain, but that an overall body does not actually have the opportunity to decide on another offer if one is dissatisfied with the offer made by the municipality or if one considers that the offer made by the municipality is not sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e162	First of all, all billions are helping, and one billion more before Christmas helped municipalities strengthen care and care provision, but also e.g.. to avoid deficits, so that they enter into 2011 with a better financial situation and thus greater opportunities for, among others. to develop care and care. But I repeat, we have increased both the earmarked funds for care and care and the free resources, and both are important. Secondly, we have sent to the hearing a proposal based on a public inquiry, where we combine two different remedies. Today it is an insolent system; we want one single legal remedy. The government hasn't yet decided exactly what it's going to look like, except that we're going to make sure there's one complaint system. Today, there are two different systems – one in the Municipal Health Service Act and the other in the Social Services Act. They're based on different principles, so the question is whether we're uniting the two laws. We will come back to that when we come up with a bill, but good legal remedies should be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e169	Laila Bavøy – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e172	The guarantee of dignity to be provided in the new law, as the Prime Minister just mentioned, requires considerable efforts from the municipalities. On my many trips to municipalities in the last year, it has been shown that some of the reasons why the municipalities do not spend the entire amount of the elderly billion are the great uncertainty about whether this amount was a one-off amount, or whether it will be continued. My question to the Prime Minister is whether this billion will be continued, so that municipalities can in this way initiate actions that last over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e179	The money that was received in 2010 was received in 2010, so it is in itself a one-off amount. I experienced great joy in everyone who got part of that billion, plus that we paid back when we increased the earmarked grants to those who had built up earlier, so there was 7-8 million. In addition, kr. But it continues in the sense that the level of municipal income was slightly increased in 2010, but they are further increasing in 2011, so that it is a continuation by adding even more billions in 2011. I can leak from the 2012 budget; there will be even more billions up there again in 2012. Several billions come to care and care and to the municipalities, much more than when the Right and Christian People's Party put in government. At that time there were very tight conditions in Norwegian municipalities – there were a total of over four years 8 000 more annual works. In the first four years of our life, there were 40,000 more annual works in Norwegian municipalities, many in the care sector. If you want municipal care for the elderly, you should ensure that this government continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e186	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e189	There has been a discussion in the last 14 days about who borrows clothes from who in the Norwegian political debate. I'm not going to go into that discussion, but there's one point where the Right Party and the Workers' Party have for very many years had an almost common wardrobe. Priority is to continue to develop our oil and gas sector, to ensure that the basis for funding well-being, such as oil and gas, is maintained. We have sometimes discussed organisational models, but we have agreed on the purpose. The government, and the Workers' Party, are facing an important roadblock here. When considering whether to have an impact assessment or not in the Lofoten and the Vestreålen, a signal not to carry out an impact assessment will be a signal that the Workers' Party has moved in relation to the importance of the oil and gas activities and that they are compromising the desire of a broad and large majority of Norwegian society, namely to have this impact assessment. In fact, the county councils of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark have agreed to the impact assessment, the Regional Councils of South Troms, Lofoten, Salten and Vesterålen have agreed to the impact assessment, 11 out of 12 municipalities in Lofoten and Vesterålen have agreed to the impact assessment, the city councils of Tromsø, Bodø and Harstad have agreed to the impact assessment, and the NHO, LO, and the Joint Association both locally and centrally have agreed to the impact assessment. Also, many who are not sure if they are ultimately for oil extraction in the area believe that it is important to get this impact assessment, and 80 pst. of this Stortinget – if the Workers' Party is responsible for what they have done before – is for an impact assessment. Then is my challenge to the Prime Minister: Is he going to listen to this democracy and see to it that impact assessment is carried out for the Lofoten and the West Pole?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e200	I am also pleased to receive this question, because the oil and gas industry is a very important industry for Norway. It has contributed to the creation of value, to the income of which we have all enjoyed. But one of the keys to the success of Norwegian oil and gas activities is that we have progressed gradually, cautiously and knowledge-based. We did that when we went north of the 62th parallel as we entered the Norwegian Sea, and when we went into the different parts of the Barents Sea. We should continue to have the gradual, cautious approach, based on knowledge. This government has continued that policy by assigning large, new exploration areas in several concession rounds in the Barents Sea, in the Norwegian Sea and in the North Sea. In addition, we have opened up the possibility of moving on in completely new areas by now launching impact assessments of the area around Jan Mayen, and we have got a dividing line with Russia, which opens up to also addressing the question of possible gas and oil exploration there. 60 pst. Norwegian resources have not been extracted, so there are large resources elsewhere than outside the Lofoten that can be extracted, and we are doing well. We have a record high level of investment on a Norwegian base, so the picture that this business has been stopped in some way is wrong. We invest more in oil and gas under this government than under the previous one, and we have granted a large number of exploration and extraction permits during this government. In the case of Northland VI and VII and Troms II, the paradox is that what we are doing now is what the previous government has decided, namely that we should decide on this area in the context of a management plan. Parts of Nordland VI were opened, the Bondevik II government chose to close it and said that this should be taken into consideration in the context of a management plan. Then I'm going to do what the Bondevik II government has actually provided: we have a management plan for these areas, and then we decide whether we go further with impact assessment. If it had been so urgent, you could have done it already in 2001, but then you closed these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e207	The Prime Minister talks a lot and quickly about many other things than answering the questions when there are unpleasant questions. We've noticed that over a long time in these question hours. My question is again: has the Prime Minister heard the strong demand that exists in Norwegian society to have the impact assessment carried out? If you're going to continue a policy of gradual and knowledge-based investigation before you open up to an area, now is the time to take this gradual step it is to carry out an impact assessment, which I read in the paper that large parts of the Workers' Party want, such as the Advance Party and the Right are ready to say yes to in this room, and that there is a great demand for local. All decisions other than yes to impact assessment now, which are delayed in relation to the Soria Moria declaration – i.e. the government's own plan – cannot be seen as anything but a postponement for the sake of a minority in the government, i.e. the majority's wishes in this society are now being overestimated by a minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e214	Yes, I've heard that a lot of people want an impact assessment. I've also seen that there are others who have different opinions. And then we're good at finding good solutions in this country. Then I also tried to find out that although these areas are of course important, there are also large areas with a significant potential for exploration and extraction activities elsewhere on the Norwegian base. We are doing well at a record high level of investment on a Norwegian base under this government, and this is not the only interesting area. There are also other areas – Jan Mayen and other areas – we are in the process. My small polemic point was that these were areas which were partly opened in 2001. The idea of having a management plan to decide on impact assessment was not my idea. It was another government idea, but I think it's an excellent idea. These are among the proposals I have said that I think is good, and I am now making sure that we follow up by having a management plan before we decide on the issue of impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e223	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e226	The EU is setting its new energy strategy for decades to come. Gas has, as is known under half the amount of carbon emissions, so that both from a climate perspective and – for Norway – from a market perspective, it is important to stimulate Europe to use more gas. The Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen has repeatedly, both here in this Chamber and in the presence of European actors, assured that Norway will be a long-term, large and stable gas supplier to Europe, but much indicates that we will have a strongly declining production of gas from Norway's socket from 2018 to 2020 if new, major findings are not made quickly. This is confirmed by oil director Bente Nyland, and today we could read in today's business that group director Øystein Michelsen in Statoil says the same thing. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that Norway is a long-term, large and reliable gas supplier to the EU even after 2018-2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e236	We will do many things to help Norway remain a major producer and exporter of gas. First of all, we'll continue to distribute search licenses so you can find gas. Secondly, we have notified impact assessments in completely new areas, like around Jan Mayen, where Iceland also looks at its part of the pedestal. Thirdly, we have agreed with Russia on a sharing line in the Barents Sea that will enable us, if the Storing and the Government will, also to open up exploration activities there, once those agreements have been ratified. Fourthly, we have had our own work to increase extraction from existing fields. We know that most of the oil and gas in an oil field are still not extracted, but you can't get it up. If we can increase the rate of exploitation through new technologies and improved framework conditions, it also means increasing production. Fifthly, we will address the issue of impact assessment in the context of the management plan for Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II. Sixthly, I'm still dependent on the fact that gas is environmentally friendly... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e253	Ketil Solvik Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e256	Unfortunately, the Prime Minister has to be approximate in order to make his story intertwined. Nordland VI was closed by his own oil and energy minister in 2000, not by the Bondevik government. Similarly, he is approximate when he tells how much money they spend. Yes, usually you use between 30 and 40 million. kr to make an impact assessment in order to conclude. Today's government has spent more than a quarter of a billion dollars. kr and is not yet in a position to conclude. It says a little bit about it being useful not just to boast about how much money a user spends, it's about getting the results. The Swedish government had an opinion in January where they said that we have enough information to conclude – one just needs to edit existing reports, one has the impact assessment you need. It's quite uplifting to hear from a government party. We should listen to them when they say that we have more than enough information to conclude. The question then is: will the Prime Minister find the founding machine and the editing machine and make sure that an impact assessment can be provided with the information we have and which SV says is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e267	According to the law, it will take more than stitching machines and hole machines to make an impact assessment. I think it is also necessary to carry out investigations on a broader set of issues than is currently under investigation, in order to meet the requirements of an impact assessment. An impact assessment programme shall be established and approved before opening a exploration area under the Petroleum Act. So, as the Bondevik government said, and as we say, we're going to decide on it in connection with the management plan. Now the management plan comes, and then these assessments will be presented to the Stortinget. What I have been working on is that these areas are important, but there are also other areas on the Norwegian base, partly fields that have already been expanded, where there is a very important question of increasing the extraction rate – it is about large volumes and large revenues. Secondly, it is a matter of granting new exploration licences, in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea, but also, if necessary, outside of Jan Mayen. These are important areas, especially where we now see opportunities also within the Barents Sea of the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e274	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e277	While we're standing here in the staging room today, we're running loofot fishing. Many fishermen are out pulling a lot of loofot screams. There are incredible catches drawn by the last remaining cod population in the world. Lofot fishing is the year's happening, that, in Lofoten. For the government, co-existence between fish and oil has been important in terms of Lofoten and the Westphalian and our oil resources there. But once again, fishermen go out – in today’s nations – and say they don’t want such an impact assessment. It is Værøy Fiskarlag who is in charge, but the Executive Director of Nordland Fylkesfiskarlag confirms that all 33 local fishing teams in the county support the arguments of Værøy. My question is whether the Prime Minister thinks it is possible to achieve a coexistence between oil and fish when those who are closest do not believe it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e286	Every time we've opened up new areas, it's been controversial. Every time there have been some who have been strong opponents, and others who have been strong followers, and every time we have found good, balanced solutions, either by not everything has been opened, for example. The Haltenbank and other areas that are impact-explained, but not open, or that we have imposed specific restrictions on areas that are open, for example: not having activities in coastal areas or only activities at specified times of the year, etc. It's just this that requires us to have extensive knowledge, step by step to decide whether to open an area, and in case of what constraints to impose, geographically or otherwise, if the whole or part of the area is being opened. That's why I actually think it's a good idea to follow up what the Bondevik II government suggested, namely that we should see this in the context of a management plan, and that's exactly what the government is doing right now. Then we will come up with our assessments of whether it is possible and how it may be possible to ensure the same interaction between fish and petroleum here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e293	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e296	Of course, we're going to have an oil and gas industry in Norway, but the idea behind a management plan is that it's somehow tricked, and then it's somewhere so vulnerable that it's worth taking care of them. If we didn't need a plan, then we could just expand everything. Now the prime minister is going to make an impact assessment, or whatever you're going to call it, it's a little uncertain. But what can the Prime Minister find that makes him say that there will be no oil extraction outside of Lofoten and the West Pole, because it turns out to be too vulnerable areas? What are the researchers going to have to show at the Prime Minister's table to end that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e303	As I've been about before, I've been sitting in governments that have previously chosen not to open areas. This applies to coastal areas – I believe it also applies to some areas in the Moravian banks. This concerns the Haltenbank and other areas. It is precisely in an assessment of fish and the environment in the light of petroleum. It is the type of assessment that makes it absolutely right to have a management plan and that makes it absolutely right to have a comprehensive impact assessment if an area is to be considered to be opened, with or without extensive constraints. So once again, I'm a strong supporter of a step-by-step, knowledge-based and careful approach. It has been a great success and has given a fantastic development on the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e308	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e312	The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party share a very important vision for Norwegian society, namely that there should be room for everyone, everyone should join, there should be an inclusive society for people no matter what kind of qualities they have. One of the areas in which I find it difficult to understand why we're separating layers is the fight against the sorting society, as a result of the very liberal biotechnology legislation, which the Workers' Party has stood up for. In yesterday's VG we can read about Marte Wexelsen Goksøir, who believes that the Prime Minister has broken an important promise he made to her. The reason is that the Prime Minister supports the ultrasonic proposal for the 12th week for all. Nearly four years ago, she interviewed the Prime Minister, and he said: ‘At least we shall not change any laws in Norway that make it easier, or more likely to take abortions based on an indication of Down’s syndrome’. And on the other hand, ‘We are opposed to introducing the same law as in Denmark. We're not going to suggest that you check all the fetuses for Down's syndrome." Wexelsen Goksøurr now believes that the Prime Minister is breaking this promise by proposing ultrasonic in the 12th week of pregnancy for all. As you know, the government is now reviewing the Biotechnology Act on the basis of the evaluation carried out. In this context, the government has received reports both from the Health Directorate and from the Health Care Centre, which show that early ultrasound combined with blood tests can be an effective means of diagnosing so-called chromosome abnormalities, but that there is a poor marker for other diseases, such as: heart failure, as stated in the debate. I have a simple question: Will the Prime Minister stand by his words to Wexelsen Goksøir?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e331	The answer to that question is yes. We have no plans, either as a party or as a government, to change some laws to increase access or increase the possibility of abortion. In this case, there had to be a change in the abortion law, for example: to extend the limit of the number of weeks during which women can decide for themselves whether to take an abortion or not. We don't have any plans for that. I also fully agree that a sorting society is not a society we want. I also fully agree that all people should be accepted and given the dignity and respect that every human being deserves. I think it's an important debate and discussion to have, how we handle and use the knowledge that biotechnology gives us. There I welcome a discussion. We have also announced that we should go through the Biotechnology Act just to gain experience, look at what needs to be changed, and what can be continued. What we're discussing, which is something completely different, and where the government hasn't concluded, but where the Workers' Party has a conclusion, is the question of whether we should give everyone the opportunity to perform ultrasound early in pregnancy. There is no need for a change in the law. Ultrasonics are being performed on a large scale today, both late and early in pregnancy. In very many regions of Norway, over half of women take early ultrasound, they choose it, and all over a certain age are also offered early ultrasound. It's not a change of law, it's an entry that people have today. They take it in private clinics, and many places over half of the women choose it. The question is whether there should be free access to all, or whether there should still be the possibility of early ultrasound for those who choose to do so privately. There is something quite different than discussing legislative changes in e.g.: abortion laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e340	I am surprised that the Prime Minister dares to bypass the question, which is so simple, and which should have been so clear and easy to understand. The question is not about abortion law and access to abortion. It's okay that the Prime Minister says you don't want to change it. But the question is whether the Prime Minister stands by what he said, that you're not going to suggest that you check all the fetuses for Down's syndrome. This is the case today – and I can inform the Prime Minister if he is not aware of it – that access to early ultrasound today, in 11-13. a week is linked to the fact that there is a professional medical basis for it, whether the woman has a particular concern. You can get early ultrasound. If it was that this wasn't new, why in the whole world would you make this a big proposal, to introduce an early ultrasound for everyone for the 12th week? The Prime Minister knows that it is Down's syndrome, above all, that you are intensifying the pursuit. The question is therefore repeated: will the Prime Minister stand by his promise not to put in place a mechanism to check all foetuses for chromosome abnormalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e347	I stand by what I said in that interview, that it is not appropriate to change any laws to make it easier to have abortions, among other things. based on the occurrence of Down syndrome. I'm standing by. I'm trying to clear up a little bit of terms and questions. One is the question that has been raised by some people, about changing the abortion law, to extend the border. We reject that. The second is whether to do something similar to what you have in Denmark, where there is a water test for all. We're against that, too. The third is the question of early ultrasound. Well, we have in Norway today. Those who want it can take early ultrasound for 12 weeks. There's a very large number of women doing it. On the one hand, they do that, those who are older, 37-38 years, but there are also a lot of young people who choose early ultrasound, do this at private clinics and pay, I think, about NOK 1,000. So in many regions of Norway, it's 60 pst. by all Norwegian women who do. It's an entrance that's there today. The question is whether that access should be applied to everyone as a free offer in the healthcare system. We have not taken a decision on that. We are going to discuss that in the government. We're going to have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e354	There will be follow-up questions – first Laila Bavøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e357	I am very surprised at the answer given to the Prime Minister, where he says this is not about a change in law. The whole point of Marte Wexelsen's Goksøhr in her question to the Prime Minister was whether it would be easier to remove children with Down's syndrome. At early ultrasound you will see a neck fold. This will lead those who discover it will take blood tests to find out exactly if they have a child with Down's syndrome. That's how you discover Down's syndrome. The question here is whether the Workers' Party, as they have proposed, will give this opportunity to all through the public sector. The Prime Minister cannot ignore that question. There is great uncertainty about the outcome of early ultrasound except that only early ultrasound can reveal Down’s syndrome... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e364	First of all, I think we're all going to show a great deal of respect for this issue, because it's about emotions, it's about values, and it's about how we're going to combine difficult considerations, namely knowledge, technology and respect for human life. What I'm saying is that we're not in a discussion about changing any laws. The question is, where the Workers' Party has taken a position – but the government has not taken a position and has not discussed it yet – whether it is what it is available to today, namely early ultrasound and what very many women take, ultrasound in the 12th week of pregnancy, whether it should be offered to everyone, or whether it should still be an access for those who want it, by going to private clinics, those who can take advantage of it, and which make it quite different, for example. where you get early ultrasound in the country. It doesn't detect Down's syndrome, but it gives an indication of Down's syndrome. It may then need to be detected by foetal water diagnostics. There's a question the government will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e371	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e374	I think the Prime Minister is suspicious of what this is really about, and says that you won't allow blood tests and mortgage tests. It's at early ultrasound you get a strong suspicion of Down's syndrome. Then it is confirmed by blood testing. With respect to reporting, I am mildly annoyed by the Prime Minister's lack of knowledge and reflection on such a difficult question. I noticed that the Prime Minister was very concerned about the importance of knowledge-based oil operations. Why is he not equally concerned with knowledge about early ultrasound and health benefits for mother and children, which are about respect for human dignity? Why will the Workers' Party support this when the Knowledge Centre indicates that it has no health benefit for mother and child, but is very effective in detecting Down's syndrome?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e381	I have underlined the need for both caution and knowledge also on this important issue. That's also why the government has asked the Health Directorate to get a professional status. Studies have been started and reports have just been delivered to explain the professional questions about what you are getting to know, and what you are not getting to know, and what, for example. early ultrasound can teach us. We are doing that, and the government has not decided anything, but we have notified a review on a professional basis. The government has not taken a position. What the Labour Party has said is that we want the offer of early ultrasound to be for everyone. There is full opportunity to take early ultrasound today, but then you have to do it in private clinics. There's a large number of women doing it. What I've said is that I don't want to change the abortion law or other laws that will make it easier for them to take an abortion, but that they have access to early ultrasound that gives an indication, and that may have to be detected through later foetal diagnostics. They do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e388	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e392	I'm actually taking a great distance from the statements that come here, that all of our parents are looking to remove all of the children who have an injury or disability. For the Advancement Party, ultrasound has been important for everyone early on, because we believe it is important that parents can take time to address the challenges they face, and what opportunities they have to get help and follow-up in their family. Then there is the important question of combating a sort society if society is coming up. For five years, the government has promised a review of care pay, care allowance and BPA, and it looks as if what has been sent out at the hearing is actually a weakening of rights. I want to know if the Prime Minister has any assessments of the rights of people who are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e399	All of this will come back to us once we have carried out the hearing and reviewed the hearing opinions. Otherwise, I also think it is very important to stress that even if you have access to ultrasound, you have not said yes to a sorting society. I fully agree with the representative. There is an offer of ultrasound for all older mothers today. We're not saying that it's a sorting society for older mothers or older pregnant women. There are also very many younger mothers who choose to take ultrasound today, because they have access to it. We're not saying it's a sort society for that reason. The discussion concerns the proposal of the Workers' Party, whether the offer of early ultrasound should be for everyone or whether it should be for those who choose to do it themselves at a private clinic. There's an important discussion, but there's no discussion about yes or no to sorting societies. It's a question of how extensive access to ultrasound should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e408	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e411	Last year the Crown Prince, the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Industry and a Secretary of State travelled to Qatar. They were to help open Hydro's new aluminiumworks with integrated gas power plants. Everyone was well satisfied, but on the way home, the Minister of Industry of the Workers Party stressed that Hydro also had to make such investments in Norway. Now we're lucky to be in that situation. Alcoa, the world’s largest aluminium producer, will build an aluminium mill in Finnmark. It is almost identical to Hydro’s facilities in Qatar. It's an investment in Finnmark in 15 billion. kr. It can provide 500 jobs in the works and 300 jobs in the supply industry around it. The energy must come from Snow White gas. Then it's very funny that the Prime Minister just decided that gas is environmentally friendly. Thus, Norwegian natural resources are being processed in Norway. The only small difference, but which is essential, is that when Hydro wanted to build in Qatar, they got a clear yes. When Alcoa asks to build in Norway, it gets an implicit no. Government policy stops the project. At NRK Finnmark in January, this was confirmed in an interview with both the Workers' Party Vice President, Helga Pedersen, and the red-green fraction leader in the Energy and Environment Committee – for gas is obviously only environmentally friendly when used abroad. So the government is supposedly proud of extracting oil and gas on a Norwegian base, but using it in a new industry is a contradiction. Gas shall be exported together with workplaces and emissions. So it seems to be okay for this government that Alcoa builds an aluminum plant in England and buys LNG gas from Snow White, which is more energy-intensive, less environmentally friendly than having to build this melting plant right on the side of Melkøya and use the Snow White gas directly. These are bad industrial policies, bad environmental policies, bad climate policies and bad industrial policies. Will the Prime Minister cut through this symbolic policy of government in this area and ensure that Alcoa has the opportunity to realize its melting plant in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e422	I believe that gas is a very good natural resource that we should use in Norway and that we should also export in large quantities to Europe, because it contributes to reduced emissions there, probably the most important contribution to reducing emissions in Europe. So at the same time, I believe that we have to assume that although gas emits less CO2 than coal and oil, it is also CO2 emissions, greenhouse gas emissions, related to the use of gas in Norway. That means that we have to deal with the climate challenge somehow. In the case of the specific project: it is the case that the government has to decide on specific projects, whether there is a gas power plant here or an industrial plant there, if we get concession requests about it. We do not operate and pre-treat or decide on individual projects until we receive applications for them. But what everyone who is applying for needs to be aware of – and they are aware of this – is that there is a broad climate settlement in the Great Britain, where not least the Christian People's Party and the Left, but also the Right, have repeatedly stressed that it stands by layers, anyway. The right has underlined that it is also standing by if they are to cooperate with the Progress Party. This climate agreement has committed itself to reducing CO2 or greenhouse gas emissions by 15-17 million tonnes in Norway. The right pressure for even greater reduction. Right we thought we'd take over 20 million tons in Norway. So when the Right has committed itself to such large reductions in CO2 emissions in Norway, it is not possible to go in cooperation with the Progress Party to increase emissions in Norway at the same time. The right guarantees time and time again that there will be at least as large reductions in Norway as the climate agreement suggests. Then we have to deal with CO2 emissions either by finding solutions that do not emit CO2 or by setting carbon capture rates. We are investing a lot in the development of carbon capture technologies to enable increased gas use in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e447	This was a very simple answer. We have a concrete project now that the actors know that one should have a cleaning from day one, will not be able to achieve this, because one cannot wait for Mongstad 2018. This means that the choice here – as this government has to take over – is that either we can build this in Norway, get value creation in Norway, jobs in Norway and realize the gas in Norway, or we have to see that this project disappears with Norwegian gas and leads to value creation elsewhere. There's no way here to sit and wait for it, because the market for new aluminium is now. Reference to the climate agreement. Instead of talking about what Right means, or has meant, the Prime Minister should say whether he will still be in favour of what the climate agreement says, because I cannot understand that this is an intentional and desired consequence of the climate agreement. We're talking about the total European emission of allowances being regulated by the European quota market. This means, therefore, that getting a gas power plant at one of Alcoa’s melting plants does not increase European emissions, because others have to do the same cut for Alcoa to have quotas. Climate change has no consequences, but it means a lot to the Norwegian economy. Will the Prime Minister look at this matter to make changes to... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e460	I'm in charge of the climate agreement. I accept that, among other things, by the Right – with which the Advance Party wants to cooperate – was pressured to increase domestic cut. But what I'm trying to say is that it's funny to meet Right in one environmental debate where they criticize us for cutting too little at home, and then in another debate meet the potential government partner who wants more emissions at home. It would have been an extreme advantage if you could coordinate little by little, that you agreed that you are too much or less CO2 emissions in Norway. I understand that there are some contexts here with regard to European allowance markets and things, but I fully accept that we have made a national restriction that means that we have to deal with emissions related to new installations in Norway. It is therefore – if you have to trust the Right – an absolute prerequisite for the Right to be able to cooperate with the Advance Party in a future constellation. The Christian People's Party and the Left – what to say – are even more clear on this than the Right. So go to the right and clarify this question, and I'll talk to you! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e470	I'm trying to explain it to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e475	I'm on the climate deal, me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e480	There will be three follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e483	I understand that the Prime Minister is going from being prime minister to being suspenseful in the spontaneous question hour. When the Prime Minister is challenged by the fact that this government has cut down hundreds of industrial jobs, has prevented the creation of hundreds of new industrial jobs, and now is behind a climate settlement that prevents the creation of hundreds of industrial jobs, I realize that the Prime Minister is getting a little tired – when he is challenged by reality. But then I am very pleased that the Prime Minister confirms that the climate agreement, which all parties except the Progress Party are behind, results in a massive closure of the Norwegian industry and prevents new industry. The Prime Minister is very concerned about impact assessments. Perhaps it is time – and that is my question to the Prime Minister – to look at the consequences of this climate agreement in relation to how many jobs in industry have been lost and how many we will lose in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e493	The President has some doubts as to whether the term ‘suitable’ is parliamentary, but the Prime Minister is being answered in a cheerful tone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e496	I can handle it very well. Besides, it's a pleasure to see the good mood of Per Sandberg. [[Laughter]] To say it this way, if Sandberg thought I was tired instead, he could see me when I'm tired. It's a completely different person. Just briefly: the main point here is that we have a national climate action. Then there are limitations on what kind of new projects we can build in Norway that emit CO2. A broad majority of the Stortinget, quite apart from the Advance Party, has put such a roof. Then I'll deal with it. So I think it's a completely legitimate thing to also say that when all possible and impossible government partners of the Progress Party have guaranteed that that roof stands firm – and actually wanted it much lower – and criticises me for having held back a little, it's a point to try to clarify what is really a bourgeois, right-wing party view on this issue. The second thing I want to say is that although we have set up the national ceiling, if we are not to break the Kyoto agreement, we have to pay the costs of the European emission allowance market in Norway. Even that cost may be so high that the type of project does not matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e513	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e516	Power-processing industry, the process industry, has proud traditions in Norway. There is a great deal of competence in this industry, and it represents important jobs. One of the main challenges on the cost side is the price of power. In order to be competitive, industry itself wants to have the CO2 component in the electricity price compensated by the State. The EU, for its part, has opened up State aid. The question we are asking from the Right is what the government is doing actively to influence EU regulations, to stimulate this industry and make it more competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e526	I am also very concerned about the power-intensive industry in Norway. It contributes very much to Norwegian exports and ensures many Norwegian jobs. This is also why the government has been concerned about setting up a new industrial power regime. We have achieved this through a separate guarantee scheme of 20 billion. kr – is good – in order to facilitate the conclusion of long-term contracts, through the establishment of a dedicated purchasing consortium and through significant subsidies to industry in order to increase the self-production of power by industry, inter alia. through energy recovery. We have a lot of good projects on it. I think it's 4 TWh we've got in place that way. I am also pleased to see that the first long-term contracts are now concluded. Norwegian Forest signed a long-term contract with Statkraft. Finnfjord melting plant in Troms, which I have had the pleasure of visiting several times, now got a new long-term contract with Statkraft, which ensures them long-term power supplies. So I'm going to add that what's going to be the result of green certificates is that in the Nordic region we're going to have a surplus of power, and it's going to push the prices of power down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e535	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e538	Competence is our foremost competitive advantage, and research and development is essential for new industrial enterprises to see the light of day. Statistics from the SSB and NIFU show that research and development in industry were at the same nominal level in 2009 as in 2008. It means a real drop of 3.6 pst. The share of the economy is reduced by 1.5 pst. in previous years. Increased investment in research and development is essential for a value-creating business that will bear the costs for future generations. Why does the government not spend more money on stimulating research and development in industry to create new industrial jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e547	The government is betting on research. There's more money allocated to research now, I think it's about 5 billion. kr more in real growth in research appropriations. We have continued the tax FUNN scheme, which is a tax incentive for research in industry. Norway is high in public research. We are still quite low in research paid by private individuals. In addition to discussing and having a competition about who grants the most for research, I think it is very important that we now have a discussion about: how do we organize the research, so that we get the best possible results out of it? This is why the government has set up its own sample to look at how we organize and organise research, so that it produces the results, promotes the quality and builds the bridge between research and business that we want to create in business research. There, I think we need to be open to see that things can be done better. I saw a look-up -- I think it was in the evening post today -- where one sees that a good part of what is allocated to research is not necessarily research. I think raising the quality of research is also an important discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e554	Then we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e557	In today's Business on Monday, repeated in the NRK on Tuesday, the Prime Minister claims that the Right does not understand the Norwegian model. The background to this claim is that, unlike the Workers' Party, the increased scope for action provided by oil revenues is to be invested in people by investing in knowledge and research, in roads and railways by investing in infrastructure, in growth-promoting tax reliefs by making work more profitable, and in Norwegian jobs. This is important because our ability to promise well-being depends on the growth power of the Norwegian economy. Also in this spontaneous questioning session, we discussed the desire to give more money to care for the elderly. At the same time, the government itself has demonstrated that in 10–15 years, Norway may be in a situation where we either have to cut welfare or increase taxes. This is a situation that the Right wants to avoid. It seems to me that the Prime Minister underestimates this challenge. In 2001, the Right and Workers' Party and other parties agreed that the increased scope of action provided by oil revenues should be invested in knowledge and research, in infrastructure and in growth-enhancing tax reliefs. For as the Prime Minister of the Stoltenberg I government wrote: «Manufacturing taxes may improve working conditions for business, in order to enhance competitiveness.» What is it that the Stoltenberg II government has left the Stoltenberg I government strategy to invest oil revenues in knowledge, in research, in infrastructure and in growth-enhancing tax reliefs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e571	I mean what I meant then, I still mean, when it comes to the use of oil money. We've accepted some tax cuts. Among other things, we have funded reductions in – I think it was – the investment tax and a few other things. We did that when we took over. In the 2004 tax settlement, we accepted the reliefs granted from 2001 to 2004, and said that we would continue the level of taxation we agreed on in the tax settlement. Then the government announced that they wanted 30 billion. kr in further reductions. We rejected it and said that it was sufficient, what was given. It's because we're constantly busy securing enough revenue to the common fund, so there's money to go, to school, to research, and to many other important things. Otherwise, I believe that the fundamental – it is an important debate – is about the following: the Labour Party is committed to creating and sharing. It's obvious, because if we're good at creating, it's more to share. Everyone understands that. But the relationship also goes the other way. If we're good at sharing by investing in social justice, by creating a society with which many are drawn, we're also better at creating. And one reason why Norway is doing well in the international economy is that there are many who are at work, very many have education, and having education is actually a competitive advantage for Norway because we have highly skilled labour, and we have a relatively low level of social conflict. Social justice increases Norway’s productivity. That's the relationship I think the right-hand side is very easily forgetting. That is why we believe, for example: investing in kindergartens promotes growth. This means that Norway may be among the countries in the world with the highest female participation. We have high birth rates. Investing in soft things like kindergartens and parental leave contributes to economic growth. I think it's a little strange to say that a blockage on a 40-year-old with heart attack does not promote growth, while building a more or less profitable tunnel is necessarily growth-promoting. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e579	The right is of the opinion that small social differences are one of the strengths of the Norwegian and Nordic models. That was not the question. The discussion is about what to use the extra oil revenues for. We are in a situation where productivity in business is weakened by the Stoltenberg II government, where competitiveness is impaired. So we have some real challenges in relation to a growth strategy. I notice that the Prime Minister says he was for some tax relief. There is nothing in St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001 that there was a time-limited view that tax reductions could contribute to improving competitiveness. But I have recorded that his Minister of Industry still believes that the property tax is a problem for Norwegian ownership and value creation. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Minister of Industry, or is the Minister of Industry on his own path when he still argues for tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e586	We fully agree that the wealth tax is a tax that we must constantly be concerned with doing better and more reasonably arranged. Therefore, this government has also made major changes in the taxes on wealth. I think it's almost 900,000 fewer who pay property taxes now than when the Right sat in government. It is not least about many small savers and many pensioners, who have completely abolished property taxes under this government or who have at least suffered significant reductions. We're still open to look at change, but we're perceiving two things: one is the income of the community, and the other is a good social profile. Secondly, this government has proved that by investing in the community, we also get profitability in the private sector. There have been almost 300,000 more jobs since we took over — it was almost flat under the previous government — and almost 200,000 of them have come into private businesses. So there has been a fantastic growth in private business – despite the financial crisis – during this government, precisely because we haven't done what Right says, but invested together, either in school, roads or other infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e595	There will be three follow-up questions – first Svein Flätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e598	I would like to continue the discussion of the difference in the view of the property tax between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry. The Minister of Economic Affairs is quite clear that the property tax affects Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs unluckily. For that he was said to be shot down by the Prime Minister and, in fact, humiliated, at best broadcast time on TV, where the Prime Minister says that Giske believes it is about the property tax that the government has decided he should believe. But still the Minister of Industry travels around and believes that the taxes on wealth have bad effects on businesses and jobs and should be removed, and I agree very much. Has the government, or the Prime Minister, now changed its view? Do they also feel that the taxes on wealth in isolation are unfortunate for businesses and jobs? Because that's the question, not what the Prime Minister has contributed to by other reliefs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e607	We all mean what we have contained in our documents and programmes – it concerns all the state councils, it concerns me, and of course it also concerns the Minister of Industry – that we want to maintain the wealth tax, but we are always concerned about looking at the scheme of it. And as I said, if there's anything this government has proven, it's that we have the ability and the willingness to look at the arrangement of the property tax. So it's almost 900,000 fewer who have been reduced or zero property taxes with this government than with the previous government. There are many small businesses and many pensioners who have gained considerable relief because the previous government maintained a very unfair and unfair wealth tax system, which also affected many small businesses. We're open to continue looking at changes and adjustments in it, but we're concerned with ensuring a still good social profile, and just removing the wealth tax would mean that the wealthiest got even less tax – many of the richest pay only one tax, that's property tax – that would lead to increased social inequality, and that would undermine the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e612	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e615	I have to say that today's Question Time has been marked by the state miniist's handling of approximates in terms of the answers. I will use one example: the Prime Minister said that a guarantee system for force had been put in place. So you don't. It has been amended, but not approved by ESA, and it must be approved there before entry into force. Furthermore, it is quite clear that the Prime Minister does not see the context in which the wealth tax inhibits growth especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Prime Minister must also see that the fact that there is nothing to do with the formwork in the business world also hampers the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are not allowed to use their business and their time to create both jobs and to create income, etc. which ensures those holdings. What's also interesting, as one has also been in the past, is that the Minister of Industry is traveling around and saying that he sees the unfortunate effects of the property tax. The Minister for Fisheries and Coast was very opposed to the wealth tax before she became Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, and has had to change her mind. My question to the Prime Minister is this: Will the Prime Minister at least see to it that there is a target of 25 pst. reduction in the form field?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e626	First of all, we've done something about the property tax. We have made it more socially fair, we have made it possible for 100,000 people to avoid wealth taxes – small businesses, small savers and pensioners – and we are committed to continuing to make it more socially fair. But we're not set on what the Right proposes, namely to give millions of dollars in tax bills to those who have the most from before in Norway. It leads to increased social injustice, and it leads to greater differences, as the Right Party and the Advance Party advocate. Then we've done something about the form field. The biggest simplification measures ever taken are under this government, where the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Finance have been the drivers of removing the audit obligation for the smaller enterprises. And the results count. When the previous government was in place, there was little growth in private employment, there was little private Norwegian business in very many areas. Under this government there has been a strong growth in private jobs, in private enterprises, and many start-ups. And we've had a much stronger growth in private employment during this government, with a financial crisis, than the last government did, without a financial crisis. So the results speak for our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e639	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e642	The left is also concerned with value creation in business, and many in Norway start their own business, just as the Prime Minister said. The problem is that entrepreneurs and innovative enterprises do not have access to sufficient risk capital at an early stage, in particular the type of risk capital that can be offered at the same time as acute competence. Part of the problem, as we see it, is that the tax system subsidizes investments in dwellings and properties, and as a consequence it contributes to the making available of far too little private capital to raise new businesses and promising innovation. I've learned this -- I'm newly learned -- goes beyond special businesses that want to bet abroad. Does the Prime Minister see this, and does he agree with the line of thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e649	I'm constantly busy discussing how we can make the tax system better, and I'm busy discussing how we can promote more capital injection. Fortunately, we have a private capital market, a banking system, which works quite well, and which the authorities helped with during the financial crisis. And the most important thing they care about is to find the possible profitable projects and to help finance them to make money when it becomes profitable in those kinds of projects. In addition, we have comprehensive State instruments: Innovation Norway, Seed Fund and other State sources of capital. As far as housing taxes are concerned, we still need a low tax on housing in this country. I think there's a broad consensus on that. So I'm not going to notify any increased house tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e657	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e669	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Transport, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. Question 9, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who directs him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Labour on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed. Question 12, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister of Labour, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice, who is directly responsible. Question 13, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e692	The question is as follows: «During the National Government Meeting of the Workers' Party last week, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg spoke warmly about value creation and success in business. The left is well aware of the simplification work done by continuing the Altin from the Bondevik II government. We are also pleased that the government has introduced audit exemptions for small businesses and that simplification of the Share Act is being announced. This is something the Left has suggested several times. What other concrete measures will the government take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e701	Norwegian companies use considerable resources to satisfy the requirements of the authorities by law and regulations. In the Soria Moria II Declaration, the government stressed the need to put in place simpler rules for business, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are now strengthening work for a simpler everyday life for businesses. The government attaches great importance to ensuring that regulation does not impose unnecessary costs and disadvantages on Norwegian companies. Value creation is greatest if public regulation and information requirements meet the needs of society but at the same time impose the lowest administrative burden on businesses. In other words, it is important that attention be given to measures identified in each enterprise. The government proposed before Christmas that the smallest companies should not be required to have an auditor to audit their accounts. The proposal contributes to large savings for small enterprises and is one of the most important simplification measures in very many years. The proposal also means that the framework conditions for the smallest companies in Norway are adapted to international developments. We want to slow down the unfortunate developments we have seen in recent years with an increasing number of Norwegian registered foreign companies. The proposal for exemption from the audit obligation implies that Norwegian limited liability companies and so-called NUFs are treated as equivalent in respect of audit requirements Furthermore, the Government has taken the initiative in simplifying the Share Act. The study on this theme contains many important proposals that will make everyday life considerably easier for small and medium-sized limited liability companies. It would be natural to see these amendments in the context of the removal of the audit obligation, which we promoted before Christmas. It is important to modernise the stock law and bring it to the level of – and preferably a little ahead of – countries that are naturally comparable to both the Nordic countries and the rest of Europe. Another very important tool in government’s ongoing simplification work is Altinn, the Internet portal of the authorities for electronic reporting and dialogue with business. More than 400000 enterprises have switched from paper-based to electronic submission of public forms through ALTIN since launch in 2003. We aim at a development in which electronic services fully replace paper in communications between industry and the public sector. The ALTINN II project further improves and develops the ALTINN portal. In this context, business will have access to all relevant electronic services from the public regardless of the establishment that produces these services. During the spring, the government will present an ambitious numerical target to reduce the cost to businesses of responding to government demands. It is also important that new unnecessary requirements are not imposed. We believe that the numbering of simplification targets is one of several policy instruments for achieving real results from the simplification work. Further concrete measures will also be put in place to achieve the simplification objective. These must, however, be drawn up in close cooperation with the various departments. The government is very concerned that the measures contribute to a notable and measurable improvement for the better in the company’s everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e723	I thank the Minister for the answer. So, despite the answer I got now, it's like a lot of scientists and economists point out to me that Norway has quite concrete problems with value-creating entrepreneurship and innovation, despite the fact that there are relatively many start-ups every year in Norway. Our problem is that entrepreneurs and innovative companies do not have access to risk capital at an early stage, which I also took up with the Prime Minister instead. And in particular, it's the type of risk capital offered together with competence, which is the challenge in many companies. The left wants this to be more market-oriented and commercial. Does the Minister of Industry see this, and is there anything that the Minister of Industry might be willing to do about?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e730	Access to risk capital is one of the elements that facilitates a good business life. Much of this must come from the private sector, but it is also the case that public instruments contribute to risk capital. Innovation Norway is one of the institutions we use. There we have had a great evaluation. It is now being consulted and will end up revising Innovation Norway’s instrument. It will be an important venue to discuss exactly what the questioner refers to. We also have seed funds, we have Investinor, we have Argentum, which contribute capital to companies in a development phase. In a good and active industrial policy – I fully agree – it is important to pay attention to ensuring that businesses have access to good and risk capital, including in a business/entrepreneurship phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e737	I would like to thank the Minister of Industry for his positive reply. The Left has proposed a tax credit scheme for persons who raise seed and start-up capital in the form of equity deposits, shares and convertible non-deductible loans at an early stage. We call this plan CapitalFUNN. What does the Minister of Economic Affairs think of such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e744	I think I'll be a little careful to say yes or no to good suggestions over the table. I have registered that the Left has many good proposals, including for the simplification work, which has been promoted in Stortinget, and which we will also take with us when we are going to make an action plan based on the objective we set. In general, however, one of the reasons why there may be a lot of bureaucracy, documents, forms, reports and extra work for business is that there are many special arrangements, such as: within the tax community. The best thing for business in general when it comes to reducing red tape is to have broad, low tax rates, which are without so many exceptions, so that you do not have to have both a very high level of legislation that needs to be addressed and a very high level of reporting requirements that relate to individual exemptions and specific provisions. If it is relevant for this issue, I might be a little careful to conclude, but in general, it is enough that as few exceptions as possible provide for the simplest possible legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e760	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e767	‘Health Mid-Norway has decided, on the advice of the Council of State, to bring together the two health care professionals in More and Romesdal into one enterprise. This happens after the decision not to build a new hospital in Molde. Many fear, therefore, that this aggregation will be made in order to reduce the number of hospitals in the county in the long term. What is the objective of the Council of State of bringing together the two entities in More and Romesdal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e774	My main concern in this case is that the people of More and Romesdal should have a high-quality specialist healthcare service. That is why I asked Health Mid-Norway at the business meeting on 25 January this year to introduce a common health company in More and Romesdal by 1 July this year. An appropriate hospital structure is a prerequisite for ensuring the objective of equivalent quality healthcare for all. Individual hospitals in a health enterprise are usually organised in such a way that they provide a large proportion of the necessary specialist health services by using one or more hospitals. Once the work distribution has been clarified between the hospitals of the healthcare company, it facilitates a holistic and coherent patient course. Good quality and competence at all stages can be ensured by establishing professional networks and cooperation venues where professional resources are seen in the context. Modern information technology with wireless image and test response, telemedicine and common decision-making systems online can support such professional cooperation. For Health Nordmøre and Romesdal, the situation today is that a large proportion of the population receive their specialist health services from other health establishments, such as Health Sunnmøre and St. Olav's hospital. I believe that it is necessary to facilitate better coordination of the offer in the region, so that several patients are given a comprehensive offer within their own health business. That is why I have asked Health Mid-Norway to introduce a health company in More and Romesdal by 1 July this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e783	I am pleased that the Minister of Health declares that there are professional grounds for this decision. Nevertheless, the major challenge for healthcare professionals in both the Moor and Romesdal and in other states is that the situation is linked to the regional actors, as it is in a way difficult for both the addendum and patients in the business community to cooperate naturally, because regional healthcare providers are blocking what can be natural cooperative constellations. In this context, it was natural for the Minister of Health to also review the problem of how to organise this outside the joint health service that is now in More and Romesdal. My question in this way is: Will the Council also consider considering the role of regional health care providers — whether they are still going to exist, but not least how to solve the problems associated with different boundaries between regional health care providers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e790	It is quite clear that there are professional reasons for my desire to merge these – and we agree on that. However, in the case of regional health enterprises, they are initially designed to be natural regional units. So I see that sometimes you can get into a situation where new infrastructure, new roads, new bridges and tunnels can make it appropriate to cooperate in other ways. If that's for the best for the population, I think it needs to be made right for it. It is not certain that there is a need to change borders, but that there is a need to be more open to cooperation between different health businesses, which we also see as examples, for example. in the proposal on cooperation between Health West and Health Middle Norway on food supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e797	One should usually be careful to praise the government, but I did think that as far as the council is quite clear in its answers today. What is regrettable, however, is that she realises that in many cases regional health professionals will contribute to malpractices, which would not have been there if regional health care providers disappeared, or if they shut down and kept up with the original health care providers. Then the question is: why is the Council of State so locked up on regional health care agencies, when everyone sees that there will be unfortunate consequences, as the Council of State also sees? Why has the Council of State locked itself into a model rather than being open in relation to how best to organise health services, not only in this region, but throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e804	Not least in the light of the debate that has taken place on governance and on the entire organisation of specialist healthcare lately, I have thought very carefully throughout the situation of specialist healthcare: Is it well organised? Should we make some adjustments? In the case of regional health enterprises, they are precisely designed to provide a total offer for a patient group in their region. Some offers are too small to have within a single local health enterprise. Even if you are, for example, However, the two in More and Romesdal will not be able to offer all kinds of services. You'll have to use St. Olav, Haukeland, Ullevål, Arendal or Kristiansand to give the optimal offer. And then there's something about these regions knowing the population, they know best how to organize things. I have no faith that you should be able to sit in Oslo and do this. That is why I am concerned that regional health businesses should continue, for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e815	«In the evening post on 7 February, Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck announces that there will be a new round in the government on the free sale of alcohol. Breck states that this will not in any way rock the position of the Vinmonopole. The left has proposed several times in the Stortinget the same thing that Breck calls for. Does the Council agree with Brerk that this will not challenge the Vinmonopol scheme, or does the Council of State maintain earlier claims that the consideration of the Vinmonopole outweighs the consideration of local alcohol producers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e822	The size has repeatedly taken a position on the sale of alcoholic beverages above 4.7 p.m., at the latest during the treatment of Document 8:123 S for 2009–2010, which was promoted by the representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden. The proposal was examined on 19 November 2010 and was not endorsed. I am not against facilitating niche products and local initiatives. I see the intentions are good. But the proposal raises fundamental alcohol policy issues. Alcohol policy is not primarily concerned with the increased availability of alcohol that farm sales would entail. A limited system would probably not have a greater impact on alcohol consumption. The monopoly of alcohol, on the other hand, is a derogation from the rules of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of goods. EEA law requires equal treatment between domestic and non-resident producers, no further use of instruments than is necessary and a consistent approach. So you can't turn the code on or off as it pleases. Studies in Sweden also show that it is not possible to obtain farm sales in the traditional sense of EU law. This would be contrary to the principle of non-discrimination. In this case, a scheme for selling local products had to open up the possibility that foreign small-scale producers also had to open up sales in Sweden. Such an extended scheme would be non-discriminatory, according to the investigation. Another aspect that has been assessed is that the European Court of Justice might conclude that such a scheme would challenge the EU legal basis of the Systembolaget. The Swedish authorities have not yet taken a decision on the follow-up to the investigation. The government has promoted a proposition for Stortinget where we go in to allow for the sale of alcoholic beverages containing up to 4.7 pst. alcohol. Here we also say that we want to follow the Swedish process. The Norwegian monopoly system works well and has a broad scope, but it is demanding to maintain it. Small changes in the framework conditions can have major consequences. However, I am very concerned about protecting the wine monopoly. There is also evidence that the government has not chosen to make proposals for the sale of alcoholic beverages above 4.7 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e839	The Council of State cannot have read either the proposal promoted by the Left, or the investigation called Farm Sales, SOU 2010:98. It was submitted on 16 December last year. Swivel if Sweden has a civil government, they have not been properly implemented yet. But what's there is a system of farm sales, which is linked to either a study visit, a lecture, a show or something similar. You make a maximum quota of one litre of spirits, three liters of wine, or five liters of beer per customer. All of this was also in the Left's proposal. They say that if they introduce this, it will also be EU-validated. Then it doesn't break with any of those things. If you are demanding that you have a tour of the production site in order to be able to sell niche products in one quota per person, it is probably not so topical that you will have the opportunity to have a tour of a French vineyard while you are in Sweden. I guess that's a little bit of a sought-after comparison.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e846	As I see it in the Swedish investigation, it is such that other farmers could sell in Sweden. That's at least how I understood it. With regard to all these creative proposals, I am concerned that we should be able to stimulate farm tourism and that we should be able to stimulate local producers. This has just been done by incorporating local products into their sales shelves. In this way, they have tried to stimulate the sale of local products from the monopoly system. In fact, the wine monopoly is one of Norway’s most satisfied populations. It is an extremely important alcohol policy instrument, and all research shows it. I have to say I'm worried about challenging that system. But as I said, we're very careful about what's going on in Sweden, and of course we'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e853	The left has no desire to defeat the Vinmonopole. We think it works in terms of alcohol policy, plus that it gives very good quality to Norwegian citizens. This means that Norwegian citizens have access to quality products in this area that citizens of other countries do not actually have. That's what we think is positive. But what's a little strange is that when we communicate with the Minister of Agriculture in this area, he is very positive to the Left's proposals. He says, among other things: in the evening post on 7 February: «Sweden and Norway are working together on this.» He will look at how we can practically start selling alcohol from local producers. "Now the Stortinget is going to discuss this proposal, and we'll see what the result is," he says in the same article. He has previously gone out in the VG and said that he is very much to introduce such farm sales. So my question is: Is the Minister of Agriculture completely private-practice, or is it so that the Left has got a government council without noticing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e860	I just want to refer to the proposition we've promoted for the Storting, where we go in to open up for the farm sale of alcoholic beverages, up to 4.7 pst. I stand by that. But as I said, we're tracking what's going on in Sweden, and we're busy not challenging the wine monopoly system. I understand that many things may seem illogical, but when we have asked for a monopoly system that is not really one of the European Union's foremost desires, I believe that we also have a great responsibility to protect it, and not to challenge it unnecessarily. We see what the other Nordic countries are doing, and we want to keep track of it, but as of today we have promoted a proposition for the Stortinget, which concerns alcoholic beverages, up to 4.7 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e871	‘Reference is made to headlines in the media where the parliamentary leader of the Workers’ Party, Helga Pedersen, proposes the introduction of an ultrasound examination for all pregnant women in the 12th week of pregnancy. Is that government's policy?'
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e878	The routine ultrasound study offered to pregnant women between 17 and 19 weeks is part of general maternity care. In particular, the purpose of this study is to provide information on the safest time of expected birth, whether there are one or more foetuses, where the uterus is located in the uterus, and how the foetus develops. However, the use of ultrasound, the purpose of which is to obtain information on the genetic properties of the foetus, to detect or exclude disease or developmental abnormalities, is to be regarded as diagnostics of the foetus. In such cases, the use of ultrasound is subject to the regulation of foetal diagnostics by the Biotechnology Act. Ultrasonic studies in foetal diagnostics can currently only be carried out when the conditions for foetal diagnostics are met, e.g. where the woman is over 38 years of age. The use of ultrasound early in pregnancy raises a number of ethical questions. The Storting asked for the Biotechnology Act to be evaluated after five years of practice. In June 2009, the Department of Health identification of status in the field of biotechnology — national and international. Foetal diagnostics, including early ultrasound, were one of several themes at work. On 10 February this year, the Health Directorate delivered a report in response to the Ministry's order. We are now going to go through this report in depth before considering how the further evaluation process will be. Therefore, it is too early for me to conclude on the individual elements of this evaluation, also the question of whether ultrasound testing should be offered to all pregnant women in the 12th week of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e889	Thanks for the answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State is concerned with both knowledge and reflection in relation to these difficult questions. The right has called for a consensus conference, as was carried out both in 1985 and 1986 on ultrasonics for both 18 and 12 weeks. Such a conference will provide a broad review and an assessment of the medical professional issues — ethical, legal and priority — as well as the hearing of users. Then you can have a wide range of doctors, midwives, ethics, lawyers, patient organisations, user organisations, etc. I think it's important now, because there's a lot of vision, a lot of emotion, maybe too little knowledge and a lot of mixing. I think it is important to settle this matter now, implement a consensus conference, and get a broad and sound basis for the choices we are going to make. So I ask the Council of State if she wants to take the initiative for a consensus conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e898	I fully agree with the representative that it is important in this matter to acquire knowledge and knowledge in many areas. National advice on quality and priority shall include: have this on its agenda at its next meeting, just to discuss all aspects of it. I also see the need for all of us to have broad debate and broad knowledge, and I therefore follow the representative very much in how this should be done. At least I want to take the initiative to have a broad conference where we address the ethical, legal and not least the professional issues, and see what we can get out of this if you choose to make changes. Of course, user organisations are also important here. So I'm going to take the initiative. Whether there's going to be a consensus conference, I'll ask you to come back to it, but if we're going to bring this up in full width, I can promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e905	I'm very pleased with this answer. It's very reassuring. For the Right, there are two criteria, or two perspectives, that are very important and crucial to assess this offer: first, that it is knowledge-based, and that it must show a health benefit for mother and child. So far, the Knowledge Centre’s knowledge summary last week has shown that there is no basis for claiming that early ultrasound of all pregnant women will bring some health benefits. Secondly, the Right will not be able to accept a development that is moving towards a stronger selection of fetuses, and we are talking mainly about Down's syndrome. Does the Minister of Health agree with the Right that these perspectives need to be given considerable importance when deciding on early ultrasound by all pregnant women?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e914	I agree that all the dilemmas and ethical issues we are faced with in the context of the Biotechnology Act and not least new research, new opportunities for what you can do, mean that these are issues that we need to discuss very thoroughly and get all the knowledge about. Then I also see that the Knowledge Centre is quite nuanced in this respect, to which the representative also referred. That's why I'm concerned that we're going to take this up in full width. These are so demanding questions, that we all deserve to acquire knowledge and take all the debates that this brings about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e923	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by Minister of Justice Grete Faremo on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e926	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Justice: ‘The County of Hedmark has converted the municipality of Engerdal’s yes to the use of helicopters in connection with the Riverdal’s Snow Games. This is most likely to result in an inability to implement the event. Does the Council of State believe it is right that the County Council should transform the decision of a municipality, in this case the municipality of Engerdal, so that the decision of the municipality is disregarded and has no value?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e935	On behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, I would like to say the following: The representative refers to a decision on 17 January 2011 where the municipality of Engerdal has granted the Elvdal’s Snow Games permission to use helicopters to transport skiers to the top of the Rømund mountain. This Decision has been converted by the State in a letter dated 4 February 2011, as the State considers that the decision is contrary to the Motor Travel Act. Motorised land and watercourse inputs will in many cases serve obvious utility purposes, and snowmobiles, quadrupling and helicopters are allowed to run for many purposes today. At the same time, motor travel in nature causes a number of disadvantages and injuries, such as noise, disadvantages for those who practice outdoor life, terrain damage and disturbances of animal life, and also conflicts with outdoor life. Both the individual vehicle and the sum of many motor vehicles present a natural and outdoor burden. There are therefore good reasons to have strict regulation of access to motorised outland traffic. The starting point of the Motor Traffic Act is that motorised outland traffic is prohibited in Norway. However, the legislation allows for a wide range of purposes, both directly in law and regulation, and through authorisation and exemptions. So-called helicopter skiing, i.e. However, helicopter trips for ski tourists to mountain peaks, broads or other more or less inaccessible places are an absolute prohibition. That prohibition is based on a separate regulation of 14 March 1988. In its letter of 10 March 2004, the Ministry of the Environment stated that Section 6 of the Motor Travel Act could nevertheless allow for the authorisation of helicopter transport in specific short-term sporting events. The primary content must be a demonstration/competition of a limited number of participants and the event must not appear as part of a tour. Where a municipality takes a decision contrary to law or regulation, the county has an obligation to intervene and to reverse the decision. This results from general administrative law. In this case, the decision of the county council is appealed to the Directorate for Nature Management. As the appeal procedure has not been completed, I do not want to comment on the decisions in this case in particular. However, I would like to point out that in Hedmark's transmission of the complaint to the Directorate of Nature Management on 11 February, the County decided to postpone the implementation of its decision until the appeal was finally dealt with by the Directorate. This means that the decision of the municipality will remain until the decision of the Directorate for Nature Management has been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e952	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am a little uncertain about how to interpret. You refer to the stress on nature. Is there anything in the municipality of Engerdal, among others. It has, it's nature. The municipality of Engerdal consists of 2 195 km2, which means that each resident in the municipality of Engerdal has approx. 1.4 km2 to settle on – there are 1,450 inhabitants in the municipality. You have a lot of snow, you have a lot of winter, and you have a lot of nature. Clearly, this is a reason why people live in Engerdal, and it is, among other things, important. on quality of life. The quality of life can be so much, but in this case it is to be allowed to arrange the extreme sports event in the Southern River Valley. It was arranged last year, and it was a success, and you'll continue your success this year. You apply the same way and get a yes from the municipality, but the county says no. It's not easy to get something called e.g. housing and quality of life in a small municipality called Engerdal, when the legislation is to be governed so hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e965	I have to take into account that the different considerations that apply to this issue are carefully considered and balanced in the context of the processing and adoption of the law, and in which the powers to take decisions have also been conferred, and that a decision has been taken here in the county, which is now under consideration in the Directorate for Nature Management. It would not be right for me to advance the final treatment of this. The decision of the municipality is in line with what the county has said, until any other decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e970	In many municipalities, perhaps in all municipalities, you need entrepreneurs who create something, so that it becomes quality of life, living, creating something for business, creating something for tourism, etc. This is an event that absolutely contributes to creating all of this. In a municipality that has so much nature, this should not be a problem. The municipality has taken its decision, and they have done so on the basis of Section 6 of the Motor Travel Act. The municipality says that the Elvdal Snow Games is a positive measure that ‘creates activity in a small municipality’ and points out that the permit was also granted last year. So there's nothing new this year. It was last year, too. I get a little frustrated when we have a disembarkation in many municipalities, and it's screaming that something has to happen. When the founders like this try to get to something, the authorities stop it. I get a little frustrated when I see and hear what I see and hear now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e977	The President is then told that we will see if the Council of State can do anything about the frustration of the representative of Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e980	I can only repeat that it is the municipality's decision that stands, as long as no other decision is taken, and that the matter is now under consideration in the Directorate of Nature Management. In the light of that fact, it is also clear that the decision has given suspensive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e989	‘The Minister of Justice told Dagbladet on 22 July 2010 that police should deprioritise more police tasks, including: the minor drug issues, begging, prostitution and nightlife violence. Recently, we saw that the Labour Party City Council candidate in Oslo will have zero tolerance against drug sales, according to Vg.no 3 February 2011. Local politicians therefore agree with the Right's policy in this area. What is the government’s policy of stopping drug trafficking, and will the police’s priorities for action in this area be changed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e996	I can assure you that I do not see anything problematic in that the Right agrees with the view of the drugs policy expressed by the Labour Party’s City Council candidate in Oslo. The government stands for a restrictive and comprehensive drug policy. Combating drug crime in all its forms is an important part of this policy, where the police have priority tasks. Police, together with other national agencies, will focus their efforts on the whole drug chain, from cultivation and production, smuggling and illicit distribution through illegal networks to possession, small sales and abuse. In order to reduce the supply of drugs on the Norwegian illicit market, it is important that the police have concentrated efforts to detect and take agents and backers. In this context, the police are just going to give priority to drug action, as underlined by the Minister of Justice in the debate following the election to which Mr Werp refers. This effort is to be made in the context of other efforts against organised forms of crime, because organised crime is the heart of illicit drug trafficking. Those who sell less quantities to addicts are part of this organized crime. In my opinion, there is no disagreement between the views of the government and the Labour Party's City Council candidate in Oslo, as the representative Werp seems to assume in his question. However, it must be allowed to think in new ways in this area and to look for new tracks that can lead to a more effective social response to drugs. The Government appointed the Stoltenberg Committee in 2009. The committee issued its report on drugs last year with several exciting suggestions. The report has also been consulted and the government will consider the proposals in the light of the opinion. As a specific measure in this context, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, has set up a working group to explore the need for alternative responses in the possession and use of less quantities of drugs. The aim must be to strengthen the possibilities of preventing drug abuse and to increase the assistance to those who have developed an abuse. This shall be done in cooperation by several bodies. The police are one of them. I therefore do not see it as a change in the priorities of the police – on the contrary. By strengthening police efforts to combat illicit trafficking and trafficking and by intensifying the efforts of other agencies to prevent drug abuse and to help drug users, this also means giving priority to tackling drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1007	I thank you for your answer. What this is all about is creating security in the community. In some neighbourhoods it has unfortunately become a daily event to meet sellers, and to some extent also drug users, but in this context the focus is on the sellers of drugs at street level. For a long time and through many proposals, the right has promoted measures for zero tolerance in this area. In this context, the answer is clear by the fact that both the government and the local candidates of the Labour Party give the same message, and that we have a basis for finding common solutions, hopefully. In the context of some of the measures proposed by the Right in the past, which focus on cooperation between the municipality and the police, a follow-up question will therefore be: Is it possible to provide opportunities in the police regulations, such as: for expulsion, a measure that the government can review?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1018	The fight against drugs requires action at different levels. I am very pleased with the close cooperation that has developed between the police and local authorities over the years. How we can work together to ensure that the response to drugs is as effective as possible is important to go through thoroughly. For me, this is not about either – or, it is important that this work is prioritised both by the police and other public authorities. Without knowing any concrete proposals on changes to municipal statutes, I am sure that these are also measures that are considered in this established cooperation between police and municipal authorities, which also takes place here in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1023	Thank you. The Oslo City Council has a very high level of active attitude to this, and, from the Right, we want, in cooperation with local populace, to facilitate a social development that means that drugs have no place. The question then arises to the Council of State: What tools does the Council of State see as not having today, but which they should have in order to strengthen their efforts and prevention against drug abuse and openly selling at street level in Oslo and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1030	There are many interesting things happening in this area, not least here in Oslo, where the police chief has developed his own strategy plan aimed at open drug users and drug traffickers in Oslo, and where attention has therefore also been paid to, among others, the Oslo Police Council. This. I believe that various measures aimed at these open trading venues are important signals that neither the municipality nor the police nor society can tolerate this activity. This must also be seen in the context of enhanced cooperation with Kripos, with the Customs Authority, with other public bodies which are at the heart of the important work to combat crime and combat drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1039	I have the following questions: ‘According to the VG, the Workers’ Party’s Judicial Fraction will release military negotiators from civil service. In that case, is this a proposal supported by the government and will not the winding-up of civil service be a final farewell to the general obligation regime that we have in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1048	The protection obligation is strong in Norway. If there is any doubt with the representative Kristiansen, it is important for the Workers' Party to maintain this strong popular anchoring. It is also clear from our batch programme for the period 2009-2013: ‘We still want a general duty of protection and believe that the protection and first-time service arrangements must be developed in order to be as tailored as possible to the needs of the defence, society and individual guardian.’ However, personnel holding a pacifist conviction may be exempted from military service and transferred to civil service in accordance with current legislation. The civil service is of the same length as the initial military service, i.e. Duration of 12 months. The call for civil service is currently being implemented to an extent that is intended to support the recruitment of the military protection obligation. This means, in practice, that around 200 teams each year provide community services in the health and social sectors, the peace sector and the natural and environmental sectors. There has been a marked decline in the number of applications for military service exemption in recent years for reasons of persuasion. In 1998, 3 008 exemption applications were promoted, while 345 applications were registered in 2010. As a result of the decline, the capacity of the civil service administration has been subject to down-adjustments over several years. We have a general duty to protect all men who are known to be able to serve. It is also mandatory for everyone – and I also mean women. After the introduction of a mandatory session for women, the defence now has an annual recruitment rate of nearly 60,000 young people. The initial service and the number of calls are guided by the needs of the defence. About 8 000 of these provide first-time services. The aim of civil service has been to support, as I mentioned, the needs of defence. In this context, the number of community services is very limited and therefore no longer has the same meaning for the proportion of the population implementing – or having – the protection obligation in today’s Norway. The Government has not taken a decision as to whether the civil protection obligation should be abolished. The Ministry will follow the development of the applicant figures in the future and seek to adapt civil service to the purposes for which the service is intended to be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1066	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am quite sure that representatives such as Jan Bøhler and others who have promoted the proposal to abolish the civil service system have also been closely involved in both the Workers' Party's programme and the Government's declaration as such. I am well aware that the Constitution confirms that any citizen of the State is equally obliged to protect his country over a certain period of time, including the protective duty regime. When the Council of State says that the government has not taken a position on the further status of civil service, I still doubt whether Boehler & Co. however, they have a point from which they are trying to obtain a result.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1073	I can assure you that the duty of protection is strong both in Norway and in the Workers' Party, as strong as it underlies the government's efforts to develop it. The link made here to the proposal referred to in civil service is sought. As I point out, there is a question that needs to be carefully considered by the government before, if necessary, the Minister of Justice comes back with proposals for a change in civil service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1078	I still think the answer is not satisfactory enough. There is no doubt, probably with one party as an exception, that a broad majority of the Storting will end up with the compulsory protection scheme, which is an obligation. It has not been said that everyone should implement it. But if you open the door to it becoming a volunteer, you open the door to the fact that, for various reasons of conviction, you can refuse to carry out the duty that the Constitution confirms, that this in many ways becomes a kind of volunteer, this is not at all sought. Then one opens up that this will not be the obligation laid down in the Constitution. I take this as a question, whether it really is the way the government opens up to abolishing the obligation to carry out community service for those who, for some reason, had to refuse protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1083	The question of change in civil service is something we might come back to. The government has not taken a decision on that question. I just want to point out that when the Stortinget dealt with the government's proposal for a long-term defence plan, the general duty of protection was the basis for that proposal. In order to be absolutely sure and to remove any doubt that has been raised about a connection between the military protection obligation and the civil protection obligation, I find reason to repeat: that connection is not present. Then we will have ample opportunity to discuss whether the government would find it appropriate to submit a proposal related to civil service later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1101	This issue has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development, who is addressing it. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1109	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister of Culture, will be answered by the Minister of Labour on behalf of the Minister of Culture, who has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1112	I want to ask the following questions: «A house owner lost his house and lived in a fire just before Christmas last year. The owner did not notify the NRK's licensing office about the loss of TV and received a licence fee in January. The owner thinks this is a very unreasonable claim since the TV was lost in the fire. The reason the owner did not notify me of the loss of the TV was that there were a number of practical problems that had to be solved with regard to Christmas and the loss of the house. The NRK's licensing office refers to the fact that the owner should have given notice of the loss of television by 31 December. Do the Councils see the need to amend the regulation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1121	Let me first say that I have all the sympathy and compassion with a family that loses everything it owns and has in a fire. The question asked by the representative of Korsberg is whether, in the light of such an event, there is a basis for reconsidering the rules on the levying of the broadcasting charge. There is already legal access in the third paragraph of Section 8-3 of the Broadcasting Act to exempt wholly or in part from broadcasting fees when specific reasons warrant it. The same provision provides an opportunity to appeal to the Media Regulatory Authority decisions of the licensing department. I cannot, of course, pre-empt the outcome of such a complaint, but today's charging system has a safety valve to ensure that there are specific reasons for exemption. It is difficult to envisage a detailed regulation in regulation that takes care of all individual events where a normal response indicates that there is a basis for exemption. I therefore believe that a general right of appeal is the most practical system. So this is an option under the third paragraph of Section 8-3 of the Broadcasting Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1130	I thank you for your answer. We agree that it is tragic to lose both the house and home and probably the TV. I understand that you don't think about it when you report from. In this specific case, however, this person who has lost the TV has been in contact with the NRK's licensing office and has not arrived. It is possible that there should be a long application process in order to avoid this requirement, but this obviously has not happened in this case. Then is my question to the Council of State, which indicated that there is a specific opportunity to complain to the Media Authority: Is the redress procedure simple enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1137	I do not know the details of this individual matter. The Minister of Culture knows it initially and mainly through media reviews. In this case, there is therefore an opportunity to appeal against decisions taken by the licensing department before the Media Authority. I have no reason to say that there is something more twisted and difficult than the complaint rules that normally apply to this type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1142	Then I will quote a little from what has been said in the media about this matter. In an interview with a department head of the licensing office, the following is said: ‘We have no mitigating circumstances. It's a built-in principle. The TV licence is a State fee and it is prescribed that it must be cancelled before a new term starts if the customer is to be released from payment for the future.» In other words, they refer to laws, regulations and paragraphs, and you don't come up with information that you can make it easier and not pay. Other companies, such as Canal Digital and Telenor, and a number of other private actors, show a great deal of understanding when someone has come up with such a difficult situation, but the NRK's licensing office does not. Then again I have to challenge the Council of State: does the Council of State think it is necessary to encourage the information obligation of those who need to complain?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1154	I assume that you are made aware that you have a right to complain. It follows from the Administrative Act that information should be provided on access to complaints when they are not complied with. I'm assuming that also happens here. It is such that you have an obligation to pay the TV license. There is an opportunity to take special account. That's what I've shown you, and it opens up for it. I assume that the person concerned is complaining and has the complaint handled correctly and normally by the NRK and the Media Regulatory Authority. In addition to that, I have no comment on whether the complaint rules are burdensome. As far as I understand, I have not tried to complain at all in this matter yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1165	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘According to several headlines in the Dagbladet week 6 2011 it appears that employees working on board aircraft and helicopters have a high and increasing workload in the working environment. As of today, Norway has not made the vibration regulation applicable to flying personnel, although there is nothing to suggest that vibration in the air is less harmful to health than elsewhere. Will the Council of State ensure that the Vibration Regulation is also applicable to flying personnel?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1174	The short and simple answer to the question from the representative Eriksson is yes. Today, only four regulations of the Working Environment Act apply to civil aviation, and the Vibration Regulation is not among them. On 3 February of this year, in consultation with the Air Safety and Health Authority, the Labour Inspectorate, after consulting the Air Safety and Health Authority, sent a proposal that all regulations under the Working Environment Act should apply to civil aviation flying personnel, including the Vibration Regulation. The working environment of civil aviation crew members has risk conditions that should be maintained in line with other sectors. With regard to the vibration regulation, a derogation is proposed. The regulation implements an EU directive. The Directive may provide for exemptions for aviation where current technology and specific conditions make it impossible to comply with these limit values. It is therefore proposed that, in exceptional cases, air traffic control may grant exemptions if other measures are taken, such as: reduction of exposure time, i.e. shorter time to vibration. The deadline for consultation is 6 May. For the sake of order, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the responsibility for the oversight of the working environment for civil aviation flying personnel lies with the Air Traffic Authority, which is the responsibility of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1185	First of all, I have to say that I am very happy – and I like – when a government council comes to Stortinget and answers so clearly yes to questions. I really appreciate that. I think it is very good that the Council of State has addressed this problem – and got it consulted. But then we know that things take time. It's basically just one type of helicopter that is of such a nature that you break the vibration regulation. Then my question is divided into two parts: will the Council of State ensure that this type does not have an exception to the regulation, and when can we expect the regulation to be applied?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1192	So, as I said in my answer, I have this out at the hearing. That is the deadline for consultation until 6 May. As I also said, it is through the fact that this is an EU regulation, opening up access to some exemptions. We have not considered this further in the letter of consultation, but this is something we need to make concrete when we are going to make the regulation. I'll take with me that input to the representative in the assessments we're going to make. I am unfortunately not prepared to give an exact time now for when the regulation will be in place, but we will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1197	Another problem is that of supervision. We know that in the past, the Labour Inspectorate supervised flying personnel. It was transferred to the Air Safety Authority in 2010. According to the studies produced in the media, the opinions of, among others: the trade union Parat, it turns out that there is only one person working with the working environment in the Air Safety Authority. Some questions are asked in terms of competence. Does the Council of State consider that the competence of the air traffic control working environment is satisfactory? And will the Council of State consider moving this responsibility back to the Labour Inspectorate again? On 12 August last year, the Labour Inspectorate and the Air Safety Authority concluded a cooperation agreement because of a lack of competence. It must be more appropriate to place supervision within the competent body. Would the State Council like to do something active to move it back again?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1204	It is a complex assessment that is behind the fact that you have the supervisory breakdown you have. There are many reasons for pointing both in one direction and another, and reasons for moving this to the Air Safety Authority. I assume that the Air Safety Authority and the Labour Inspectorate are working together in a good way here. I also think that just through the regulatory work we're doing now, we're going to see that it's going to work in a good way. So I don't have any plans to do it now, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1215	This question, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister of Labour, will be answered by the Minister of Justice who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1218	‘Rightly, the government asked in 2008 to change the maintenance requirement, so that this came to a more realistic level. The parties voted against this. The Labour Party's Committee on Integration, on the other hand, believes this is a good idea, and took it up among its proposals last Wednesday. Will the government now turn around in this matter, and support the Right proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1225	The law on the enhanced maintenance requirement has recently been introduced and the government is committed to following practices closely to see if there is a need for change. The Ministry has asked the UDI to report on the effects of new legislation in specific areas, including the impact of the maintenance requirement. We therefore closely monitor the practice of the new legislation and continuously assess whether there is a need for change. The Ministry will, among other things: on the basis of the UDI reporting, review the maintenance requirement. What will be the result of this review is too early to say anything about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1234	What will be the criteria for how the government assesses whether the enhanced maintenance requirement is successful or not? I see that the Workers' Party's Committee on Integration has already established that today's level is too low. It must mean that they agree with the Right that an elevated maintenance requirement will improve the integration of Norwegian society by providing an extra strong motivation for participation in the labour market. Is there the type of criteria that the government will also take into account when assessing whether an elevated maintenance requirement is successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1241	Integration issues are important, and I'm glad that these questions have also been followed up carefully and carefully in several parties. In the case of the Workers' Party, we want a thorough process, and this will be one of the main issues at the party's national meeting. As far as the government is concerned, we are following the new rules and asking, as I said, UDI to report the effects of this in several areas. What we're following is not only the outcome of a new level, but also any special outcome, not least in terms of the situation for children and families with children and also for students, who can be in a more dynamic life situation than the requirements for entertainment really are based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1248	Representative Bent Höie, on follow-up questions? The representative Höie doesn't want the word for follow-up questions, and we'll move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1264	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1271	‘The number of employees increased from 2005 to 2009 by about 40 pst. At the same time, research shows that child-restraint workers experience the state's child-restraint as a heavy red tape. The Council of State is constantly repeating the fact that the money in child protection should benefit the children when explaining why the private actors are deprived. What action does the Council of State take to reduce the red tape of national child protection and release these funds to the benefit of children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1278	Most employees in the Children's, Youth and Family Catastrophe, Bufetat, which is the largest part of state child protection, work directly with children. They work in childcare centres, in care centres for lone minor asylum seekers and with family protection, foster homes and home help measures. It is true that the number of employees in the Children’s, Youth and Family budget has increased since its inception in 2004. One of the reasons for this growth is that there has been a steady increase in the number of children and young people receiving assistance from state child protection. During the same period, new tasks have also been assigned to the establishment. The buffetate has, among other things: assumed responsibility for single minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. An increase of 425 annual works in the regions between 2007 and 2010 is linked to the establishment and operation of care centres. This is 60 pst. of the total increase in the number of annual works in the establishment since 2007. The budget has also been added to 80 years' work on the acquisition of the second line service of child protection in Trondheim. In addition, it has taken over the management of several grant schemes and has also taken over from the Directorate for Health. Of course, the government’s increased quality of child protection has led to more employees. That's what you need to ensure quality. In the case of applications for child protection measures, written investigations and justifications for the award of measures are required. Authorisation procedures and procedures for the management of adverse events, such as tampering, forced use, etc. have been established. This is necessary for the legal certainty of children in the protection of children and for evidence such as: in the case of complaints and claims. An analysis carried out at the Frischsenteret in 2010 shows that the effectiveness of national child protection is not lower than that of other state services, such as: specialist health services – rather the opposite. But of course, I would like to stress that we must constantly work to achieve the most efficient administration possible. One of the tasks of the evaluation of the State Child Protection Agency, which has now been undertaken by the Ministry, is therefore to explain whether the reform has resulted in more or less centralisation of power, bureaucracy, duplication of work and administration. We're also concerned about this. We are also asking for an assessment of whether the reform has led to longer and more complex decision-making processes. In addition, the evaluation will include the division of responsibilities and tasks between State and municipal child protection, and there will be an overall evaluation report in spring 2012. An efficient organisation is continuously working to make the best use of its available resources. Therefore, in order to promote flexibility and conversion in the department, the 2011 letter of allocation required Buffetat not to increase the number of administrative posts. But I want to highlight that we need jobs to do the job, we need people with good skills to do the job, and that's the main reason why there's obviously been a growth in Buftat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1295	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The right concern is that too much of the child protection professional competence in the municipalities has now been transferred to the State Children's Protection Bureau. And our concern is that it doesn't help so much for the kids that there's more people sitting here in Oslo filling out papers when there's no good child protection workers out in the municipalities to take care of them and follow them up before it's too late. What we hear from a lot of people in child protection in municipalities is that it's more attractive to work in the building. Wages are better, and there are bigger challenges. What we're seeing now is that out in the municipalities, child protection is very vulnerable. What will the Council of State do, before the evaluation is completed, so that we can increase the child protection professional competence in the municipalities where the children live?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1302	The simple answer to that is the allocation that the government has given for the budget year, where we have actually given money to 400 new posts, at the top of what the municipalities used to have. And this is what I think the municipalities can actually swallow. We need jobs, we need people with skills, also there. And then I would say that it's not right to say that we've transferred from the municipal to the state. Now we want the government to function well, and then we strengthen the community. Nor is it right that all the State Buffetat is in Oslo. It is based on regional treatment around the country, and they are very much out there, not least because they have a responsibility for care centres, for foster homes and also for family protection around. So these people who are in the state part do a really good job. My goal is to make both the municipal and the state work better together. That is why we are now doing several things: evaluating the state – or evaluating the whole – and strengthening the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1309	I share the opinion of the Council of State that we need to improve the functioning of both state and municipal child protection. But I don't think the Government's response to these challenges is that simple, because we saw last week that the municipalities are asking for almost twice as many jobs as the government put in the 2011 budget. In the context of the 2011 state budget, the right proposed almost a double in relation to the government that appeared, and we are very concerned that there are not enough posts outside the municipalities either. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State if we can expect this to be corrected when the revised budget is submitted to spring, that there will be an upgrading, so that the municipalities can access the positions they feel they need – something that we have now seen is very clear through these applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1314	I think it's quite amazing that the representative here is able to turn a positive bet into something negative. So here we've gone out with money for about 400 jobs. Yes, the municipalities say they need more, and we're not done with this. This is an important beginning, which we will, of course, continue in next year's budgets. But what's important here is that we now get that competence into municipal child protection, while keeping the state. The right recipe is to reduce the state. It would be disastrous, I would say, for everything that has to do with both institutional and foster home location, and it would go most far beyond the weakest of child protection children. We want to do both. Of course, I am pleased with the commitment of Hofstad Helleland here. It's important for the discussion, but it's also important to be honest about what's actually being done. And here we are. The government has invested in municipal child protection posts – earmarked posts – and it is a commitment that municipalities have received well. They want more, but they're obviously happy for what they've got.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1323	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion: ‘Erna Solberg introduced language mapping of four-year-olds as Minister of State. The project was managed by the Integration and Diversity Directorate and the Hot Language 4. In 2009, Language 4 was terminated. On a number of occasions, at the latest during the autumn budgetary procedure, the Right has proposed to continue and further develop. The Workers' Party's integration committee has now re-examined the idea of language mapping for four-year-olds. When and how does the government intend to follow up this proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1332	During the period 2006–2009, trials using the Language 4 language mapping tool were carried out at the health centre’s four-year control. The aim was to have a more systematic monitoring of languages at a health centre by all four-year-olds, so that children with poor language skills were caught as early as possible. The experiment would develop good methods and forms of cooperation to ensure a good follow-up of these children. The experiment was carried out in 12 municipalities with a large immigrant population. Over 40,000 four-year-olds were surveyed. About 10,000 of these were minority languages. At the same time, several other municipalities had chosen to use Language 4. Among the 258 municipalities and districts that reported that they had measures for language screening at health centres, there were 66 pst as of February 2008. who has already used Language 4. The trial was evaluated in 2008. The evaluation concluded that Language 4 is suitable for monitoring language development in Norwegian-speaking children. The work challenges have been particularly related to the identification of multilingual children’s mother tongues and the use of interpreters, intercultural competence in dealing with parents of multilingual children, and the establishment of good cooperation practices between health centres, kindergartens and various follow-up services. The evaluation recommended that Language 4 be used at all health centres in the country. The experiment was followed up by testing models for transfer of knowledge and experience to non-sampled municipalities during 2009. Provision was made for better language mapping, referral and follow-up of children with inadequate Norwegian knowledge. Several professionals have worked as guides in relation to municipalities and have provided advice and guidance. The use of Language 4 has now largely been incorporated into the normal framework of the four-year control. The IMDI, the IMDI, has provided a guide on how new municipalities can use the mapping tool, and the Health Directorate recommends using Language 4 in its guidelines. Training schemes for health professionals have been developed at five universities and universities around the country to provide them with a better basis for using the tool. Training shall also contribute to improving the training of health professionals to guide parents and to contributing to good interdisciplinary cooperation in the municipality in the follow-up of the child. Several higher education institutions have now introduced Language 4 into their education for health sisters. So here we are in full swing with the follow-up!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1347	It's good to hear that the Council feels that something is happening here. But then it's a little strange that both the Right Party and now the Workers' Party must clarify – right through comments, and suggestions in the Stortinget, and the Workers' Party through their selection – that this is actually going to happen. I asked the Council of State Lighthouse about this in the budget debate on 11 December 2009. He gave about the same answer that the council gave now, and indicated that 66 pst. by Norwegian municipalities were involved in this work, etc. The question is whether the State has abdicated in this work, whether it has now been left to the municipalities alone to follow this up, and whether it is actually such that the state says that the municipality is taking responsibility, and here the municipality is being cleared up. I call for a more offensive integration policy from the ministry and from the state. Will the Council of State contribute to the effective implementation and support of this scheme by all municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1354	The state has definitely not abdidicated on this issue, and I can say very calmly that we are actively following this up, not only against the IMFI – i.e. the Directorate – but also through, for example, the IMDI. the universities and colleges involved in their programme in the training of personnel, such as: health sisters. Here a test has been made, with successful results, and the most important way to do this is to implement that experiment and make guides and recommendations so that new municipalities can make use of it. There may be a need for even more pressure and pressure to make more municipalities actively use this, so of course we always have to evaluate that kind of possibility. But I will certainly reject that the state has withdrawn here. Here, too, it is important in this matter of interaction between the state and its various institutions and educational opportunities, and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1361	It is good that the Council of State believes that a lot is happening in this area, and refers to the universities, etc. But what is really the challenge here – language mapping is important – is the follow-up. It's the one that's crucial. What happens when a person discovers a lack of Norwegian knowledge? Is it children's playground then, is it language training? What kind of action is being taken, and what are the objectives of the Council of State for this? Should there be a goal that everyone should be able to do Norwegian when they start school, or is there any measure for this? I feel that so far the department has fallen back in terms of the measures that Erna Solberg put in place with language mapping, and said that this was a good trial scheme, now the municipalities are taking responsibility for themselves. But it's the further follow-up that's absolutely crucial. How is this followed up with respect to the individual child and family who have children with a lack of language skills in Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1368	I would like to make it clear once again that this is a responsibility that, of course, the state also feels – as I said before – through the institutions for which the State is responsible. It is, of course, complicated to know exactly how to follow up, because it shows, as I said in my reply, that the screening – which is a very necessary basis for further action – is that there are challenges associated with the use of interpreters by multilingual children, for example, and mother tongues in different situations. Meeting parents of such children presents challenges in terms of intercultural competence. Therefore, follow-up measures need to be somewhat more nuanced and diverse. But of course I'm concerned that we have debates. It is very good to have this announced from the opposition parties in Stortinget. In other parties – reference was made to the Workers' Party's Committee on Integration – there will be a debate. So I look forward to perhaps getting an even better basis for those measures, and that the measures, in addition to what is being done today, can be even better targeted at these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1381	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion: ‘Former Municipal Minister Erna Solberg introduced the Immigrant Introduction Programme in 2004. The programme has been a success, and Norwegian training has been decisive for it. Today, the programme has 300 hours with so-called duty-and-right hours. The right has the option of extending the number by hours, but has not been supported by the government. The Labour Party's integration selection now supports Right's vision. Would the government now be behind Right's request for several Norwegian hours for the participants in the introduction ring?'
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1390	The government has started work on increasing the number of hours for those who have the right and duty to training in Norwegian and social knowledge. Listening to letters of 25 June 2009, it was proposed to increase the number of hours from 300 to 600 hours, 550 hours of Norwegian training and 50 hours of community education. Good skills in Norway are an important commitment for participation in the labour market and society. We need to provide good training so that immigrants can use their skills and acquire new skills. Training must be of a scale so that the individual can acquire basic knowledge in Norwegian and Norwegian society. The extension of the number of hours for which immigrants are entitled and obliged must also be seen in conjunction with the introduction of mandatory final tests. Proposals for the introduction of mandatory tests were made in the same letter of hearing on 25 June 2009. When the participants have to pass the final test, they must be entitled to training so many as to pass the test. Those who cannot pass the test after 600 hours will be able to get up to 2,400 more hours if they need it. The total timer mother is out, and almost everyone will be able to learn basic Norwegian within the frame. The Ministry is working on further follow-up here, and it is too early to establish when the extended training will be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1399	Thanks for the answer. The working party's integration selection is largely a blue copy of Right's potting options program. Right looks at it as a recognition of the policy we have in this area. It is also worth noting that Jonas Gahr Støre has become the debt of being a Right-Man. When submitted to the Støre selection, we have probably received a confirmation of this. Some groups of work immigrants are entitled to Norwegian training. Polackas and others are important resources for our country. Right wants to provide Norwegian training for work immigrants as well. Would the Council of State support such a right-wing proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1410	I can assure you that this is a work that the government takes seriously. It is also interesting that you have received a proposal from the Workers' Party on the matter, but it has become an internal process in the Workers' Party, of course. What we already have with regard to Norwegian education for adult immigrants is, as it is said, the right and duty in different contexts for different groups. As I said, there's a discussion in the government about both hours and final exams. I will therefore come back to Stortinget with information about this when we have clarified it. It will be most likely in the context of the budget for the following year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1417	I thank you for your positive answer. We have many good actions, and the Right has shown several of the measures here today. The right is impatient after implementing a policy in this area as well. My question to the Council of State is therefore: How will this be incorporated into the forthcoming government budget? What would you like to prioritise there?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1426	Inclusion issues and Norwegian training issues are important issues for this government. For my part, as the Deputy Council of State for that area, I now have an important responsibility to fight for this in any budgetary context. But I am absolutely sure that I am well informed about this type of action in the government. What's important to us now is to discuss the hours -- if the 300 hours plus what's possible today, it's enough, if it reaches the groups that it should reach, and in what way we're going to have final tests. There are more and more people who are now taking final tests and who are thus receiving evidence of their language skills. These are very important integration measures that are high on my agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1437	My question to the Council of State is this: ‘Rights have previously proposed the introduction of language tests in relation to citizenship. Now we see that the Labour Party takes up the proposal of the Right again. How will the government follow-up Right-wing proposals on language tests?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1446	We're going to have a high-quality Norwegian training, which gives the participants good Norwegian knowledge. It is therefore important for society to have good evidence of the functioning of Norwegian training. Mandatory closing tests could contribute to this. Such a requirement will underline society's expectation that immigrants will learn Norwegian and that Norwegian skills are an important prerequisite for further participation in professional and social life. It is also important for individuals to be able to document their Norwegian skills. Immigrants have to document their knowledge in Norwegian in many contexts, and different institutions and bodies have their own screening and recording tests. The aim of introducing a mandatory final test should be to obtain the status and legitimacy of the test to reduce the use of own screening and recording samples in different contexts. Employers must become familiar with and be able to rely on the final tests for their additions. In view of this, in its letter of consultation of 25 June 2009, which I also mentioned on previous issues, the Ministry has proposed to introduce mandatory final samples in Norwegian. Following the proposal, all participants who are subject to both the right and the duty of training in Norwegian and social knowledge will have an obligation to attend a final test. So it's important to say that the Department is working on the follow-up to this proposal. I cannot now – like the answer to the previous question – say anything exactly about the timing of any introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1455	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I focus on the positive side of it, namely that the state year emphasized mandatory tests on several occasions. I am pleased because it involves a line that the Right can share, namely to make demands as part of integration policy as well. I think a lot of immigrants will recognize that. The question now was probably more directly related to whether language tests, which are a variant of a compulsory test, can be linked to citizenship. Citizenship shall be taken seriously. Although the ceremonies that are now being introduced are not mandatory, I think very many perceive them with the greatest seriousness. A language test will be a natural part of a preparation for such an important ceremony. I just want to hear if the Council of State is of the opinion that it would be natural to attach such a test to citizenship, since the Council of State has answered so positively to questions about compulsory tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1464	It is part of the assessments that need to be made. I know the ceremonies to which the representative refers, and I think of them as very important and worthy ceremonies to get a confirmation of his Norwegian citizenship. As I said in the answer, the presentation of documentation on a language test is so important that the working life, the employer and other social services can be documented that they have the language in them. I also want to mention that there are more and more people going to Norwegian exams. There is clearly a positive trend in this, and there are several that pass the written tests. I would therefore like to pay so much attention to the fact that this is a positive trend, a trend that may be primarily desired in the labour market. But seeing it specifically related to citizenship is part of the assessment that we're going to do in the continuation of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1471	I thank you again for the answer, but there will be a lot of reviews. Now we have asked three questions in a row about the follow-up of the major government party offensive to emphasise integration policy. We have met the offensive positively. But when a party sits in government, and even let the Foreign Minister lead the selection, I thought there was a little more political force behind this than the government being to ‘assess’. If this is a high priority, you could, for example: on the previous question: we come back in the revised budget. That's the first possibility the government has, and high priority issues are going to be decided first. Revised before next year's budget, and the requirement for citizenship is something that the government can do without delay. I believe the Council of State referred to 600 hours as a rough system. It is then both to be introduced and to set requirements for mandatory tests and tests as a result of such a scheme as the Council of State referred to as ‘raus’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1478	There's, of course, a discussion about how many hours this is going to be. But the most important thing in this case is to find that a test is necessary, and that there are increasing numbers that actually go up to tests. So Foss knows just as well as anyone else that even though one party in a coalition government has promoted a matter on which that party is going to have an important discussion at its national meeting, it's not necessarily that it becomes the government's policy immediately. Here you have to give the process some time. But we also see positive from SV's point of view on the work the Workers' Party has done in its selection. We may have a different view of some of the proposals that are there – and perhaps some points of view as well. But it will come out when the government also discusses this. So I look forward to a constructive and good process, with both the Workers' Party's input and the Right's impatience, in this matter. I am sure that we will come back to Stortinget with a proposal – which we need to assess, but which will then be more precise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1487	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-16.ana.ud184e1500	There is no record.
