ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e97	The representative Thomas Breen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. They called the alternates of the Eastfold counties, Stein Erik Lauvås and Tage Pettersen, have taken their seats. The representative, Per Arne Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e113	On behalf of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I will be allowed to present a proposal for the establishment of a heart bridge to Denmark for ablation spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e118	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e132	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and allocated as follows: 25 minutes working party, 15 minutes progress party, 10 minutes right, 5 minutes socialist left party, 5 minutes centre party, 5 minutes Christian People's Party and 5 minutes left. In addition, it is proposed that 5 minutes be given to a member of the government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e143	The film 'Made in Dagenham' is now going to cinema. It's about how the first equal pay law in the United Kingdom got in place. The Ford factory in Dagenham, London, was the largest car factory in Europe in 1968, with about 55 000 male employees and 187 female employees, who sewed the trains to the car seats. Women's wages are the same as unskilled workers. But, as the heroine asks, is it because the workers are unskilled, or is it because they are women? The women take up the fight, strike, get the factory closed, travel around the country to get women at other car factories to strike. In a desperate moment, our heroine calls out to his husband: what do you think this is really about? We know what this is all about. The fight for equal pay is at the heart of what is women's liberation and the gender equality struggle. It is both about the economic autonomy of women and about the value of women's work being assessed and praised as much as the value of men's work. The contribution of women to the welfare state and to the welfare society is significant. Now they're going to have to earn what they deserve. In the last period, the government dropped the Equal pay Commission, which gave a broad review of the pay gap in Norway. The hourly wage gap between the average male and female earnings in Norway is 15pst. In addition, we know that the income gap between women and men is much larger, as men have capital income, work more and reach higher in the job hierarchy. The Commission also shows that the fight for equal pay must take place in many policy areas: employment policy, employer policy, gender equality policy and family policy. A sex-shared labour market, a lot of part-time work and the gender-shared division of work of home and care work must take the main blame for the pay gap between women and men in Norway. The message we are handling today is a follow-up to the Equal pay Commission. In the message we do the following grip: We will ensure gender-related wage statistics at the level of activity and the employer's obligation to disclose wages and salaries in the event of suspicion of discrimination. We also need to clarify the rights that parents have under and after parental leave, in order to prevent aggravating employment conditions and weaker wage developments. It is not rare to come back from leave and have had work tasks other than those you had before the leave. We facilitate a more equal parenthood through a clearer third of parental leave. The possibility for women to participate in the labour market has been made possible through a generous parental leave and full childcare coverage. Nevertheless, when we have children, we have a weaker wage trend for women. It's probably because there are still women who take primary responsibility for the children. With the third, we want to strengthen the spring quota, let the free quota be discussed and that equal distribution of care work should begin when the child is small, and continue as they grow. So the goal is for a more equal distribution of care work at home to be sustainable. We also propose to give women the right to one hour of breast-feeding every day until the child is one year old. It gives an incentive for mothers to go back to work earlier, and it may in turn affect the withdrawal of the leave. We take important steps in this message, but there are still some that remain. I'll especially bring out the part-time question. Soria Moria II has stated that the government will assess legislative changes to strengthen the right to full-time. Two of the government parties at their national meetings have adopted offensive policies in this field. I would like to reject the fact that all the proposals that the right-hand side promotes to weaken trade union movement, to weaken job protection, to weaken working time regulations and to postpone competition are strategies for equal pay. On the contrary, we see that the right-hand side's policy is increasing the pay gap. It's with the Swedish government we've been moving in this field, which has been a topic at least since the women's strikes in London in 1968. In Norway, this has been a political issue since women raised it at the LO Congress over 100 years ago. Like the girls in Dagenham, we celebrate today taking a big step in the right direction, but we are impatient to take the next one.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e169	The representative’s party leader, Kristin Halvorsen, has said that today’s negotiating system has shown that it does not address the issue of gender and equal pay. Kristin Halvorsen was also ready in the autumn election campaign in 2009 that she would do something about the pay gap between men and women by establishing an equal pay pot. She also said that the equal pay pot was going to be one of the SV's major bet areas in the coming period. The Progress Party has repeatedly made a proposal for an equal pay pot for women in low-wage professions. I also want to say that the Council of State, Audun Lysbakken, who was a representative in the 2009 election campaign, together with Hallgeir Langeland, spoke very warmly for an equal pay pot. Does the representative agree that, in order to eliminate the pay gap between men and women, it is important to provide an equal pay pot for the low-wage professions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e176	I am proud to be a member of a party with a party leader and a party organisation that takes the equal pay fight seriously. This has been our case that we have been promoting for years and that we have been meeting the requirements for. It is with us in the government that we have made progress in this field. This is the first government that has had a clear declaration of willingness to raise funds in wage-earnings. Then it is that the Progress Party will not be in the form of a comment that it is a goal to combat different wages in Norway. They have themselves decided in their own batch programmes that the market should decide itself on these issues. You will not agree with any of the decisions we are proposing to reduce the pay gap in Norway, and while you do not think it is a problem, you are attacking us for not doing enough. Here the Progress Party must decide: Do you have a policy for equal pay, or do you not?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e183	The representative Barstad is proud to be part of a party that's busy with equal pay, but it's still that there's action that counts. In the vote, the government parties say that ‘for the first time, a clear declaration of will has been given by a government on this issue’. So the question must then become the representative: is the representative satisfied with a declaration of intent, and is that the big goal of SV's struggle for equal pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e190	I'm not satisfied until we have a society with no systematic pay differentials in Norway, but I'm happy to be part of a project that takes those challenges seriously. Here we promote decisions. We are the ones who have put this on the agenda. So it's a question of pot. It also promotes commitments in wage and salary settlements. Just pumping money into a paycheck, without any obligating plan to escalate it to women's wages, could lead to men resuming in the next round. So I'm not satisfied until we get what we want, but I'm satisfied with the steps we take in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e197	I will first use the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for a very good work on this important matter. So to the question, in connection with this message being presented, the Council of State Lightbaked to Dagbladet said that equal pay was one of the things he was going to work the most on in this period, because there were no restrictions in the asylum policy Soria Moria II would be remembered for in a few years, but the equal pay promise. Is it such that Barstad's representative shares this point of view and even feels that this is historic, and that it gives women a boost, given much of the criticism we hear that this is a message with many visions, but get concrete action?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e206	The representative of Hofstad Helleland knows that I am personally involved in this, and I think this is the most important matter we can discuss in Norway today. So it's like we're taking a lot of important steps in this message that's popular out there, and that came to the end of the hearing. These are the same measures that the representative of Hofstad Helleland will not vote for today. So it's also the way I was talking about earlier, that we have to do more things. However, it is important to address the unfair division of labour at home, a more equal distribution of domestic care, if women are to have a real opportunity to participate as much in working life as men and to participate in the same premises as men. The representative of Hofstad Helleland does not want to be part of it, but promotes, on the contrary, the outsourcing and weakening of the trade and working environment laws as their strategies. There are strategies that we know will fail.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e215	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e219	Throughout generations, women have been accepted to be cheaper workers than men, whether they have worked in industry, worked as servants, as modern civil servants, or today as nurses. In the past, this was defended by the fact that women were cared for. Their income was in addition to that of their spouse. Yes, until the 1970s, we experienced that in the case of high unemployment, women were defended first, because they were taken care of. Such attitudes are not accepted in a modern equalized society in 2011, but the problem still exists in full, rightly in a different disguise and with a different reason than before. In 1947, the pay gap between women and men who had the same job was between 20 and 40 pst. The reason was family relations and the burden of living. Fortunately, the type of equal pay discrimination exists to a very small extent today and is also prohibited by the Equality Act. But we don't have equal pay in Norway. We have roughly equal pay for equal work, but it does not remove the fact that women earn about 85 pst. of what is men's hourly wages. If you look at the total income, that distance is even larger. Female teachers and male teachers serve pretty much the same. The same thing happens to male and female physiotherapists. But in women-dominated professions, you earn less than in men-dominated professions with equal education. This is supported by the fact that women choose low-wage workers as nurses and pre-school teachers, while men choose masculine professions as engineers and economists. Of course, an engineer with three years of high school education should have paid well; he's working on important things like constructing roads and calculating how much reinforcement iron is needed in the new health home. Of course, we want the market mechanism to ensure that we get the best engineers, but what about preschool teachers and nurses? They also have three years of higher education. They're working on such important things as taking care of our elderly and educating our kids. Here, too, we must have the best. What makes us still value men and their professions higher than women? I am pleased that we have a government that will now do something about the lack of equal pay. But this is not solved by the fact that market forces are controlled. So there will be bombings when right-wing parties imagine that privatisation and outsourcing of care contribute to equal pay, as they are analysing the current situation. Didn't they bring the Adecco case? The speech of the figures is very clear: in the Upsaling Home that is open to competition, it is the case that the women's employees have a lower pension, there are fewer employees and poorer working conditions. In Bogane's nursing home in Stavanger, which has been run by Norlandia since 2002, there are as many complaints as there are in the rest of the 16 nursing homes in Stavanger. At Ammerudlunden, which was run by Adecco Health, they are not paid overtime. If you review the private care institutions versus the public, you will see that there are on average lower wages, lower pensions, lower overtime pay and lower sick pay. Ergo does not contribute to a competitive outlay of women in the care professions to equal pay, it contributes to a lower wage for women. In addition, the Right provides for more flexibility – read: weakening the Working Environment Act. Many women are already treated as second-class workers in the Norwegian labour market. In the healthcare sector, part-time is combined with additional shifts. The hotel and restaurant industries have 0 positions and ring guards. The working conditions are deemed to be completed after the work on the contracted guards has been carried out. In practice, it means zero notice period. Moreover, when the right-hand side will weaken the protection against dismissal and expose the care sector to competition, this does not contribute to more equal pay but to a more gender-sensitive action with less equal pay. In addition, when the right side wants to weaken the role of fathers and weaken the father's quota, it does not help us to get any closer to equal pay. Rather, it contributes to the opposite, because we see that when women have children, they are weakened in relation to their pay terms. Men who have children are strengthened according to their pay terms. What we're looking at is that all the shortcomings in measures proposed by the right-hand side help us to move away from equal pay, as opposed to the government, which has proposed many good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e237	At the National Labour Party meeting this weekend, Jens Stoltenberg said in his speech that involuntary part-time is not compatible with the motto «work for everyone is job no. one’. We know that the Workers' Party adopted a resolution in which the right to full time was not to be legalised, but it should be given a little more protection. I'm wondering a little bit about what's in it. The situation today is that we all want to have an involuntary part-time job. The question is whether the law is the right way to go. What I want to ask the representative is whether she is not afraid that if you have a legal right to full time, will it lead to more newly educated nurses not going to be employed at all, but will become eternal temporary workers and ring helpers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e244	One of the most discriminatory things in Norwegian society today is that women are not actually allowed to get as much employment as they want. There is still an attitude in Norwegian society that women are being cared for, and therefore their income can be a supplement to family income. If we don't want to do anything about the involuntary part-time, we're not going to aim for equal pay or to ensure that women have the same rights as men. If we're going to succeed, we're going to have to do something with both the Equality Act and the Working Environment Act. What you call it, if it's to attach rights, if it's to legislate for these rights, isn't the most important thing. The most important thing is that we get the measures that work, and we get those measures in place by amending the Working Environment Act and amending the Equality Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e251	The Labour Party continues its tradition from the 1920s in many ways, insisting that men should be entitled to work, while women should be kept out of work. But you do it in a slightly different way today. The problem is not the rhetoric of the Labour Party, it is what is actually going on. I'm not an economist. But I've understood one basic thing in the economy, and that's that if there's a lack of something, the price will go up. I believe that the representative also agrees with me. We all know, and the Prime Minister often repeats – and correctly – that there is a shortage of people, and there will be a shortage of people in the health and care professions. So the fundamental question must be, why is it that when there is a shortage of engineers, wages go up, while when there is a shortage of people in the health and care professions, wages don't go up? Could it be that we have insisted, through the Labour Party's monopoly policy, on having such a rigid division of our labour market that we have placed women in precisely those professions where it is not possible to get a higher wage than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e258	In fact, unlike the representative from the Right, we believe that the market forces alone are unable to govern neither equal pay nor equality for women. Women who in 1947 only earned 40 pst. by what men served at that time, they didn't get it because the market forces crashed, but because we changed the equality law. We said that we do not accept that women should be discriminated against in wage policy. That's the way it is now. But what this shows in relation to the outsourcing, which is now proposed by the Right as a measure of equal pay, is that if you look at the private hospitals in Oslo, the pay for women goes down, it doesn't go up. Postponing competition contributes to poor pension conditions, to a deterioration in overtime pay, to a deterioration in pay conditions. If we're going to be able to ensure equal pay and equality for women, we have to control it, we have to have a law that ensures that we get a fair labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e263	The representative Gjul shows a great commitment to the question of involuntary part-time, which affects many women. But then there is also a question of concrete action and follow-up to actually do something about the problem, not least when you have been in government for many years. The Minister of Health has now informed health companies that part-time use should be reduced by 20 pst. But she hasn't been able to define how the 20 pst. to be measured, and therefore it is very difficult to know what's in it. But the question is that the Prime Minister has also been involved in this debate. He was visiting the representative Gjul and my common family not long ago, and he said that the average time of involuntary part-time in the health and care sector is eight months. So I would like to ask the representative Gjul: does the representative Gjul think that this is a representative picture of the situation in the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e272	I believe that the representative, Håbrek and the government parties share the concern of the involuntary part-time. We believe, like the Christian People's Party, that we need to take action to do something about the involuntary part-time, and I think I can be pleased with the representative Hope to report back that the national meeting of the Workers' Party this weekend proposed a number of concrete measures that are necessary to get something done about this. Among other things, we want to make changes to the Work Environment Act, and we want to make changes to the Equality Act to ensure that we do something about the involuntary part-time. In addition, I want to commend the Minister of Health for being the first Minister of Health to actually go in and give directives to health businesses to do something about the involuntary part-time. You need to have a clear employer policy in this area to do something about the involuntary part-time. Here, the Minister of Health is exemplary and shows the way in relation to all other employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e279	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e282	I want to start the post by wishing the Council of State warmly welcome back after the paperwork, and see that he has spent time well, since he has had time to write a book while he has been a father. But that's good. There has been a lot of progress in the last hundred years in the field of equality in Norway, and we all agree that Norway is in the forefront of gender equality in relation to the rest of the world. When I was at a conference in New York for a while back on equality and women, some of the things I'm left with were: give women a cell phone and a stove, and you solve a lot of the equality issue out in some of these countries. When the committee was in Vietnam and Cambodia and discussed equality, we saw that there were completely different things going on here than what we're talking about at home. Jan Egeland said on 8 March that women's day is about Norwegian welfare schemes, when women bleed and die in the front line and in some countries burn on the fire. It's when one travels out of Norway, one sees how far we've come here, and what we've gotten into this country. Then there is probably also some of the opponents here in this room who will say: Yes, this is not the merits of the Advance Party, and that the Progress Party has never stood for equality. Let me just underline that the Progress Party is for equality, but we are against some of the tools that the left-hand side has stood for. The equality debate must appreciate more the differences, the right to make your own choices, and the choices made must be accepted. I would say that in today's gender equality debate, we are often women ourselves. We are the foremost ones to criticize each other's choices and ask questions about the choices we make. Let me just take myself as an example. When I was going to the Stortinget, who else but the women were asking, "Who is going to take care of the kids?" How are you going to get your everyday life to go? A well-known writer in Norway has written a book about careers and uses his book to basically apologize for her career, and that the kids have to be home with father. It must be acceptable in 2011 to make a career, but it must also be acceptable to make a choice and be at home and have care for their children. That's when we women themselves have a long way to go in order to be able to accept that women make the choices they want. In the last few months, the news of growth that we now have for treatment, equality and equal pay has generated a pretty big debate in the media that has been very good. We've seen that it's about gender equality becoming old-fashioned, that young men give white men in equality, women will be cared for by men. Women choose the man's surname, we've seen, and old-fashioned sex role patterns in young homes. It's very nice that such a message can generate a debate out there. But I'm disappointed that the gender equality message is basically just about three things, and that's the focus on the feather quota, quota and full-time or part-time position. Equality is so much more than that, and one can be for equality, but one can also be against feminism. So for many women and families out there, equality is often about making everyday life go around and the family get to make the choices they want and decide for themselves. I asked my 14-year-old daughter about what she thought was important in relation to equality, because I said I was going to have a debate here. Her answer was that equality for her was to be accepted for who you are – being believed in and being allowed to make their choices. She had no idea that there were people's professions or women's nurses. But what she said, which is quite thoughtful, is, the boys at school, Mom, talk about it being girls' professions, and they want things for men. I think that's a lot of the core when we start our education. Today, more and more girls choose long - term education. They take higher education, and they choose untraditionally. But the boys are hanging out. It's a great warning for us as politicians who we have to take over. The progress team doesn't want us to start quotas on boys in a lot of professions, but we need to have a real focus on school guidance and focus on making the boys aware that they have to make other choices. Equality and equal pay – equal pay for equal work, or equal pay for equal value, is about here. I would say that equal pay for equal work we have in this country. But to quote my son, he says that equal pay for equal work should have been introduced to the footballers. But joke aside – the debate is a lot about part-time and the right to full-time and pay. Much is about wages and salaries, and often also about the choice of a profession. Perhaps men are more cynical there because the female-dominated professions are more often the payroll losses, and then they do not choose those professions. The promotion party therefore wants a paylift for women-dominated low-wage workers. Because we depend on the social partners, it must be allowed to ask questions about this to the trade unions and the trade unions, who have managed to lift human-dominated professions but who are unable to lift women-dominated low-wage workers. Then we know that the government is a big employer. The State has a responsibility to enter into an equal pay pot for the women-dominated low-wage professions. To quote the gender equality officer, she says it so clearly: ‘The lack of results of the equal pay settlement once again shows that it is necessary to focus more heavily than wage negotiations alone, whether women’s dominated professions should be valued in line with man-dominated professions. For this is essentially equal pay." Then I'm a little surprised when the chairman of the committee starts talking about the Adecco case, and that it's the right side's fault. I would like to ask you a question about this, because there are quite a number of municipalities in this country who have been happy that there have not been any major headlines compared to the fact that they have also broken the Working Environment Act. The debate on the right to full time is complex. We have to make sure that those who want full time have full time. But often we see that those who today train as nurses become part-time workers, and part-timers often grow part-time. So we also know that if each work two to four more weekends a year, very much of the involuntary part-time will be gone. It's a paradox that we hear from Specter, when we know that pay means a lot, that women who get higher pay choose to work less. What is important in the pay debate and the full-time job debate is that the trade union movement and trade unions also contribute. It is also important that each municipality is allowed to try out alternative tours, which have shown more positive results for both the user, the employee and the employer. We know that 95 pst. of which they are granted a derogation, are given the approval of different tournaments, but the trade union movement and trade unions often lower their feet because the trade unions have veto rights under the Environmental Protection Act. There are several other things in this message that I could well mention. I've decided not to talk about the father's quota, because people in this room know what the Progress Party thinks about the father's quota. We'll probably have even more time to debate it later. But it is a matter that has not been so much up, and that is the right to breast-feeding. In fact, what the government is currently proposing is to oblige the private sector and private companies to have paid without breast-feeding. Several of the hearing bodies have warned against this and have considered that this should be included in the system of popular protection, or that when it is what it is today, there must be a voluntary agreement between individuals. So finally, our main gender equality challenge today is actually about ensuring immigrant women that freedom and justice we take for granted. We see that second generation girls take high school because they don't want to go home. Then we see that when they're done with education, they don't go to work, they stay at home. We see that the immigrant boys have a big drop-out in high school, and we hear several times about sexual mutilation and coercion. This is an important topic that must also be part of the gender equality debate that we have here in Norway. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposals from the Progress Party and the Progress Party and the Right that have been raised in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e327	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e333	There was once a person who said you don't have to be very smart to be critical. Every time I hear the rhetoric of the Advance Party, there is criticism of the other, much more than what they stand for. In particular, in this field, I miss an analysis by the Progress Party on what has made Norway the society we are today, for the unilateral criticism of the measures proposed by the government in this big message, suggests that they have not fully understood the deep and underlying reasons why we continue to strive for equality in our society. That was also what the Canadian reporter wanted when he interviewed Siv Jensen in a TV show in Canada a little while ago. When he wondered what Norway has done because we have done so well with equality, the answer was, ‘I have no idea.’ I wonder if Solveig Horne might be able to give a more complete answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e340	Now the representative here says that the Progress Party is so good at criticising everything everyone else stands for. But then I would like to remind you that the two previous speakers have done nothing but criticise the right hand side and the Progress Party for the lack of will for some things. A lot has happened on the equality front, I'm going to be the first to admit it. But I think it has a lot to do with women themselves, and that the Workers' Party is not going to take credit for the fact that the quota or the father's quota has brought Norway to where we are today. Quotation is not equal. It is discriminatory. And the Progress Party is against quotaing that way. With regard to the quotaing that has been both in policy and governance, statistics show that there are no more women in politics. No more women have joined governments, because some of the companies have changed their form of company according to that. A report from England shows that the Workers' Party... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e349	The progressing party writes in its comments that they want to recognise Mom and Dad as equivalent caregivers, and we all agree on that is important. It also presupposes that father spends more time at home and takes more responsibility for care tasks by caring for the young in his assignment. At the same time, you write in your remarks that you want a very different parental leave scheme from what the government stands for. Now we know, among other things. that the parental quota and the device on parental leave are working by several fathers at home, which in turn lead to more equivalent caregivers. So my question is, how does winding up the parental quota and a major change in the current parental leave scheme lead to more equivalent caregivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e356	I am pleased with the question from the representative Ramsøy. I can assure you that the Advancement Party is like father and mother as caregivers. What the Progress Party wants is that the family itself should be allowed to choose the device of the great parental leave scheme that we have today – we have one of the world’s best parental leave schemes. And we know that today both father and mother want to be at home with their child, but the families themselves must be allowed to arrange family life as they want. I can take an example from a farmer who called quite dismayed and wondered when he would be allowed to take these ten weeks with his care leave, for the mother lost them when he couldn't take them because it came in the middle of the spring to this family. So for the Progress Party, it's important that the family decide for itself the distribution of these weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e365	Listening to the Progress Party talk about equality is sometimes entertaining and sometimes a little sad, because you talk hard about the right of white women to choose to be at home, while of course you have to stop talking about immigrant girls being pressured to be at home. I guess both immigrant girls choose that, and Norwegian white women are actually being pressured into it. But let go. The most important instrument we have had in Norwegian legislation to achieve more equality is the Equality Act. It's left-wing proud of. The first gender equality Ombudsman was Eva Kolstad, also the first female party leader – to inform the Workers' Party and the chroniclers of that party. She was Left-Woman, and she fought out that law. That law is not about people being admitted, it's about women's right to demand equality when we've chosen it. Once we've chosen a job, we'll be able to demand equality. Why does the Progress Party want to liquidate such an important legal security mechanism?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e374	The Progress Party wants to wind it up because we believe that we have other laws and other places where it is expressed, and that we have a court service that respects the rights we have today. It is important for the Progress Party to say that we are in favour of equality, but we are not in favour of quotaing. It's an important thing to come up with, because a lot of the debate about equality in today's society is on quota. So, if we don't have quotas for spring allowances, or quotaing into political activity and in governments, then we're against equality. For the Progress Party, quotaing is a discrimination and therefore the Progress Party is against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e381	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e384	High employment is essential for value creation and well-being. It is essential that society facilitates the participation of women in the labour market in the same way as men and that the work they carry out is valued equally. There are differences in wages and salaries between sectors and, in particular, there is a difference between the public sector. It clearly shows that Norway has one of the world’s most gender-based labour markets. It makes the gender differences stronger. Professional groups dominated by women are systematically lower in both pay and working conditions than male-dominated groups. This tells us that it is necessary to do something about the structural conditions of the labour market. A working life without systematic gender pay gap also requires political will to take action that will affect pay differentials in Norway. Unfortunately, we see no will in this way in this big message. This government has promoted the fight for equal pay as one of the most important issues in the field of equality, and it is not surprising that there are many expectations out there when such a message is made. Few measures are being promoted. It is also shown that some of the measures that may have an impact will be returned. And it's also a little significant that the spokespersons of the red-green parties use the opportunity here from this pulpit to go into action and criticise the right side of their remarks, instead of speaking warmly about their proposals and defending the measures that the government is promoting. In the view of the Right, this message lacks essential elements that we believe are important in an equal pay context. Examples of measures that could help to change the context of structural conditions in the labour market are completely absent. Right-wing people want a more flexible working life and the ability to start their own health and care activities. We want more entrepreneurship in education, we think it would have a lot to say for women too. We want more focus on women and management, we want more flexible rotational arrangements and a more flexible labour market. These are a number of factors which could have an impact on increasing equality in the labour market, but which unfortunately are not discussed in the government’s case. In this case, the right-hand party proposes a separate competence pool. We want a pool of skills for public sector settlements, a pot that should be outside the normal wage settlement framework. For education, pay should be paid, and the right considers that skills should be an important factor in wage formation. Recruitment to traditional low-wage workers in the public sector is one of the main challenges in the years to come. It must then be an objective for the most motivated and dedicated young people to apply to these educations, and then they must also be able to expect a wage level with those taking the same length of education in other sectors. Norway has seen relatively the lowest level of pay in all OECD countries in terms of public sector educational groups, therefore these groups need to be paid off. It's a shame that no more parties on Stortinget want to support that proposal. The education system needs to facilitate, in a better way than at present, the provision of knowledge to young people about the diversity of opportunities available in both education and occupations. The notification launches few new measures, and the Right considers that cooperation with the labour market and the introduction of entrepreneurship at all levels of the education cycle should be used as an instrument to ensure greater real opportunities for young people. Right will also equal mother and father. We believe that it is essential for the family that employers and society facilitate a good family life. Then it's also about home equality, and you get that first and foremost by giving equal rights and equal opportunities. It's a shame that the red-green still don't want to take the necessary steps to give father equal rights to mother. I take up the proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e401	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has taken up the proposal she referred to and was commented on in the article. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e406	The right will have more competitive outsourcing and market management in the health and care sector, and believes that this will raise women's wages. In Oslo, the Right and Advance Party have tried this, where large international groups with tax havens address run the competitive health homes. It has led to the use of less skilled labour, the average lower salary of employees and dramatically lower pension conditions. Nor has it been seen that these lead to more innovation in this sector, for example. care technology, with which the public operates. My question is, how are commercial actors going to make a profit in the care of the elderly, how much of the cost is related to wages and pensions for the employees, without that mean that you are pushing down and not raising the wages of women?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e413	Some time ago I was in Sweden and visited the Swedish nurses' association. They are eager to encourage more of their nurses and caregivers to start their own business, mainly because it will increase the quality of the provision in the healthcare sector, but also because women will then have the opportunity to start their own business, which means competition for the local and public sector. They can offer full-time jobs, they can offer higher pay, and we see that in Sweden there are an incredible number of small companies that are just offering such services. We see that a lot of women apply to these employers because they get better rights than they do in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e419	The opposition sings an old song when they complain that we only talk about their policies in our posts and not our own. Then neither the representative of Hofstad Helleland nor the representative of Horne could have listened very well when I kept my case rapporteur's post, where I almost spoke exclusively about the proposals both in the communication and from the majority. But what I was going to ask the representative of Hofstad Helleland is about the introduction of an obligation for the employer to produce wage statistics or to provide information on wages and salaries in case of suspicion of discrimination. These are proposals that the Swedish Moderates, the Right Sister Party, have introduced in Sweden, and that Højre's women's political leader, Julie Brodtkörp Voldberg, has been in favour of and announced support for earlier. Why, then, has the Right turned around in Stortinget? Does not Norwegian women need this as much as Swedish women do, according to Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e426	Yes, but we also believe that there are other measures that are even more important, and that is why we see a lot of our friends in Sweden and what they do, not least what the Swedish nurses are doing in relation to the Swedish nurses and the help nurses who work in the public sector. That is also why we are promoting the same proposals in this position, which we are disappointed that the red-greens do not support. We see that it works, we see that many of the Swedish health and care workers get higher wages than they do in the municipal and public sectors. We also see that many more people have the opportunity to work full time. We believe that this is a step in the right direction to improve many of the challenges facing this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e431	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e434	A few weeks ago, it was marked that it was 100 years ago that the first woman met at Stortinget. The story of Anna Rogstad and much of what she experienced feels quite distant from our everyday life at Stortinget. When Anna Rogstad, Fredrikke Marie Qvam and Gina Krog fought for equality in their time, was very much different from today. Equality laws are in place, and many of the rights are there, but we are still discussing many of the same issues. Differences in wages and salaries, traditional professional choices and who is responsible for housing and young people are still themes that go back. Because even though the differences are balanced, the gaps are still so big that we can see obvious pay differences between women and men. From Anna Rogstad to today, equality has led through legislation and political action, but also by individuals who go ahead and show their way and make it easier for those who come after. Today, women take shorter parental leave than the average, who give priority to the job, who get questions, or men taking parental leave beyond the parental rate, or men applying for a female-dominated profession. Now, when we're looking at solutions to today's equal pay challenges, I think we have to start in the family. Then I'm not just talking about schemes like parental leave and father's quota, but all the choices the family makes that affect the rest of society – the family's division of labour in the world that have consequences that affect men's and women's wages and careers. The family’s emphasis on leisure time, time spent at home and time spent on work and overtime also has consequences. In addition, parents are important role models for their children, and they pass on values that will in turn affect young people when making a choice for which occupation they want. We also know that small children and the number of children affect the working hours of women — we see this clearly in women, but not equally in men — as well as that the woman in this phase often has part-time jobs. At the same time, mothers do most of the housework and many of the care tasks related to kids. It also applies in families where mother and father have equal education. In fact, studies show that the entire 63 pst. the fathers say that they believe that their job is more important and more responsible than the partner's job, while 24 pst. women respond the same way. Then it's no wonder that it gets a rash in who takes out the most parental leave. When so many families with young children choose one of the parents to step into a position, it says something about both family life and working life. It shows how important it is for employers to be conscious of their responsibilities by facilitating the possibility of combining the life of young children with full employment. I am pleased that the government will now look at the right to pay in case of breast-feeding, so that women can get back to work faster, and that men can take longer leave, while they are with them and confirm the rights they have during and after leave. Researchers in recent years have pointed out that our family-friendly welfare society will not necessarily go along with the goal of equality. Good arrangements to help strengthen the family and give family time together, combined with the fact that women and men make very different use of the schemes, make it more difficult to reduce the pay gap. It doesn't necessarily mean that there's something wrong with the schemes, but the consequences come from very traditional choices in the population. In the message, the government suggests a third of the leave. An introduction of thirds ensures both freedom of choice and equality by clarifying that one part is to mother, one to father and one to free distribution. Then we take care of the child’s need for time with both mother and father, while ensuring freedom of choice. But we're still not in the goal. There are still fathers who cannot obtain parental leave because they are blocked by mother’s not going into education or work, and fathers can often be in such a situation that they also do not have the right to a father’s allowance. Therefore, it is important that we continue to work to make the parental leave scheme more equal than it is today. The Storting Communication launches a number of proposals and shows that the government is taking responsibility. We're going to work actively to get young people to take other educational choices and encourage municipalities to take full-time jobs. But at the end of the day, people have to take responsibility for their own everyday lives and their own future. 30–40 years ago, the fight against the last generation of kindergartens, parental leave schemes and other arrangements for women to be able to get into work. This has resulted in Norway having both high levels of professional participation among women and the fact that we still have many children. That's why we have to be careful now, so that we avoid a situation where welfare schemes eventually become an obstacle to achieving gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e457	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e460	The centre party is known in this government to be the champions of local democracy. Then it turns out that some municipalities have tried alternative tours, which have shown positive results both for users, for employees and for employers. But then we also know that today the trade unions have vetoed the Working Environment Act and can put their foot down by local agreements that go beyond normal working hours. With this, local self-government will be restricted, and one will not benefit from solutions for the individual employer locally where both parties agree. My question to the representative is: What will the Central Party do to ensure local governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e465	I think it is important that we find arrangements that can do something about both the part-time and full-time issues – that has been proposed by the government, and it is discussed in the communication – while at the same time they are in line with the agreements that have been concluded. It is important that we also respect those agreements, but I think it is entirely possible to find good solutions while respecting the agreements that have been concluded. The municipality can do that by looking at alternative tournaments, that's one thing, but I also think that the women have to take a responsibility to be with and say that they want to have a full-time position and not a smaller position to be with and pick guards. It is clear that this is a very demanding field on the care side, because it has always been divided into very many small fractions. I think it will be a demanding job to clean it up, but here the municipalities have a great responsibility, and it is positive that many municipalities have gone ahead and look at good projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e472	Then the next replicator, Thommess, is already ready. It's good, because we have a long day ahead of us, and it's nice if the replicators are ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e475	So far in this debate, it looks as if the government's main equality objectives are what they don't want, and they're private actors. Examples of large commercial players are then used. You can probably debate it, but for us who come from a little bit more sparsely populated areas, it is not such an important issue. We know that care professionals are one of the areas where women can create their own jobs in small municipalities. We know that women who often have some problems finding good work opportunities in sparsely populated areas could imagine looking in that direction and working to create their own businesses and building a freedom around it – a freedom to have a greater job opportunity. My question to the representative of the Central Party, Ramsøy, is: why is she such a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e482	There are already opportunities to create a career in this segment. In my own municipality, there are people who have started an advice for the relatives of the demente. It shows that there are a lot of opportunities here, but I don't think you should be fooled by the fact that privatizing a lot of the welfare market will solve the equal pay challenges, I think they're much more basic and deal with a lot of other things. The centre party is occupied by private actors and these ideal actors in very many sectors, and wants them to be present because they represent something else. But connecting them to this particular debate and saying that they should be involved in solving the equal pay challenge – I don't have much faith in that. I see that there are already opportunities to create a career in these professions for those who want it. That possibility lies there, even though we do not want to go for a major privatisation of our entire welfare sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e487	Good central policy has always been to leave small units, whether local communities, families or organisations, to have their own resources and to have a high degree of autonomy. With regard to the notification of the family policy, and in particular the cash support, the paperback report states the following: «The cash support helps to keep mothers away from work while the children are young.» [[in whole or in part:]] In addition, they say: ‘The order may result in children who would otherwise have gone to kindergarten being taken care of at home by their parents. This may be unfortunate, for example, in the interests of language development and integration of children and the motivation of mothers to seek employment.» My question is: Does the Central Party agree with the mention of cash support, and what is the Central Party's approach to the demeaning attitude of the Departments, is the electoral model that is the Central Party's attitude to cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e505	The formulas in the equal pay report are probably not the formulations that I would have used first and foremost in the mention of the cash support. Then it is that in the Soria Moria statement we have said that we should look at the development and strengthening of the cash support. I feel sure that will come. In my post, I was in on just that, that we have some good welfare arrangements here in the country, to which I am very positive. There may be parental leave schemes or cash support. We get unfortunate results when women and men use these arrangements very differently. That doesn't mean there's something wrong with the system itself, but that means it has some unfortunate consequences. I believe that in some areas when we are discussing gender equality, not all of the measures will be the most important measures to achieve full equality and that they will necessarily be best suited to what is best for the family. I think that sometimes it'll be the family that's more important, and that's what I think. that the cash support is a good example.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e514	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e517	Equal pay is a question of justice. Equal pay is a question of giving everyone the opportunity to support themselves and to ensure economic security for themselves. Equal pay is also a question of getting everyone to pay for the education they have taken, and equal pay is also about recruiting professions that are important for the welfare of Norway. It is very positive that an overall committee determines that the main work to achieve the objective of equal pay must be carried out in the workplace and between the social partners and their organisations. I am very pleased that an overall committee stresses that it is absolutely essential that working life be adapted to family life and not the other way around. This is important because the young and the family need to be at the centre to ensure safe growth for the least and most vulnerable. We must not get there that the kids, the time with the kids and the leave is something that is produced as an obstacle to equal pay and a good working life. The equal pay challenge needs to be addressed through labour market intervention. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that we have received a big message about equal pay. We are also pleased that the Stortinget is given the opportunity to discuss it on a broad basis. But it would have been a much better starting point if we had had a message that actually gave us much more concrete action, which brings us closer to the goal that there seems to be a broad consensus about in the hall. When it comes to the issue of wage negotiations and equal pay pots, government parties are able to deal with what they call a declaration of will. It is fine with declarations of intent, but it is actually only concrete action that leads us to the goal. Where is that power of action and the will to do something and do something concrete that brings us closer to the goal? Where is it when we are now going to vote on the question of a competence pool for women-dominated professions, when we are going to vote over and discuss the question of the ceiling for compensation under parental leave, when we are going to vote over and discuss the possibility for fathers of paid leave in connection with birth – which the Christian People's Party has previously proposed, and which has been voted down – when we are again discussing the issue of fathers' opportunity to take parental leave and have independent earnings rights? I could also have mentioned the question of involuntary part-time, which still requires much greater action and commitment from the government if one is to get into the goal. It's great with a big message. It's great with good discussions, but we need a powerful government, which is putting forward measures that bring us closer to the goal. There are a few steps that are taken in the message that go in the right direction, and that the Christian People's Party supports. But we had expected, not least on the basis of the rhetoric led in the field from the government parties, a completely different document. As far as parental leave is concerned, it is important, as I mentioned earlier, that parental leave is an instrument to facilitate parental care for their children, to facilitate a family life adapted to the needs they feel young people have. That's the most important thing about the parental leave. However, I would also like to point out that the Right and Advance Party's line that we should only reverse time, remove the spring quota, are naive and remote and will take us many steps back, because fathers still need the drum card in the sleeve to go to their employer and take out as long leave as you want. On the other hand, we see that the red-greens will gradually make the parental leave more and more a coercive street where you are going to sit in Oslo, in a department in Akersgata and in detail how your parents are going to put up their daily lives. The Christian People's Party wishes to maintain the parental leave and the father's quota as a positive instrument for families in order for fathers to choose more leave in line with their own wishes, facilitating freedom of choice in that area as well. The fight for equal pay requires concrete action. That's what I'm asking for. I'm addressing the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is all about in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e541	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e546	I'm very happy that we have a Christian People's Party on the team to fight for equality and for equal pay. After all, the Christian People's Party has always been involved in this, too, given that they do not have blind faith that market forces can control the fight for equality and equal pay. Both in the case of the Equality Act, in the case of quotaing, and in the case of a number of other measures, the Christian People's Party has been very clear here. But in the attitude to equal pay, the Christian People's Party avoids taking a stand when it comes to the issue of competitive outsourcing, privatisation and weakening of the labour environment law, which the right parties address as measures to contribute to equal pay. Then the Christian People's Party says nothing. What I want to clarify is: Does the Christian People's Party believe that it is a good measure to contribute to the competitive outsourcing of women's jobs in the care sector as an instrument for equal pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e553	The Christian People's Party is committed to the development of our welfare systems in a welfare society, not by a welfare state alone. It is shared between us, human commitment, idealism and initiatives that, together with municipal and state schemes, give us a good welfare society. That means that the Christian People's Party is occupied by a strong state that has good security networks, welfare solutions that we are united with several other parties in this Chamber about, while at the same time facilitating private initiative and not least ideal actors also in welfare areas. It simply means that we do not recognize ourselves in one-sided belief in the market, or in one-sided belief that the state and the municipalities should have monopoly on all solutions. That's why we've chosen to stand outside the classic wrangling between the right and the left, and we don't think that any of those paths are the big grip that brings us closer to equal pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e558	As I mentioned in my post, this is a debate and a demand that has been raised from women in the trade movement for over a hundred years. I wondered if the representative, Håbrek, could relate some considerations to the fact that it is with this government that we have made progress in the field, that it is this government that has raised it through the Equal Pay Commission and taken action in the employment policy, for example. in the case of full-time. There, of course, I refer to the Minister of Health's grip on businesses, which is going to reduce the part-time share by 20 pst. Has the representative expressed any concern that this government has been given the opportunity to raise the debate and progress in the process? Does the representative hope that cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party will make this work faster or easier?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e565	The message we are handling today gives us an insight into the story of the fight for equal pay. It shows that it is a political work that has taken place not only for several major periods, but for several decades and with broad support in the Chamber here. So there are no parties or flies here in the hall that should take monopoly on having driven that work forward. The Christian People's Party will take its share of the honor because we have come to where we are, but will not take monopoly on it either. I don't think anyone else should. In terms of cooperation and where you get the most impact, this setting shows that the Christian People's Party has a lot of common thoughts with the red-green parties in some of these areas, while we are disappointed with the lack of action and are in agreement with the Right on a proposal for a pool of skills, which would have led us much closer to the goal. I guess it shows that in this area, too, there are the best solutions in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e572	The cord shift has thus been completed. I am delighted to give the floor to Trine Skei Grande. In the meantime, the President will draw attention to the fact that we have a debate in the Chamber, not just music outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e577	In the field we are discussing today, we have seen internationally in Norway that we should not travel so far until we can be very proud that we have achieved what we have achieved. What we have achieved, we have achieved with many angry ladies who have gone ahead and who have sacrificed a lot to give us the rights we have today. We've done it with the laws and regulations we have, and we've also done it with the tax haven we have today. We have to remember that it is not that long since the Left in this hall fought hard to ensure that women's wages were not taxed harder than men's wages, because some parties thought it was more important that more men come to work than that one should have the luxury of women working. But we're not supposed to be in the goal, nor are we getting equal pay for equal work. Large parts of the professional life and large parts of the academy are the sectors that are still hanging around, and that we need to work on to get to the goal. I also think it is nice that we have a debate, and I think it is good that the Committee has put forward such a broad debate on such an important topic as this. What I might have to admit is that the disappointment is a little bit bigger when you're going to look at the big grips you're doing for the future to get equal pay. It's quite willless, and it's a little old-fashioned thinking that's what's in the message we now have in front of us, an old-fashioned thinking that women are in public and men in private, and that's enough of that, and there's no one wanting to just break these barriers. That breast-free should make way for the well-being, I don't think so. That's a nice suggestion for those that it suits. For the most people, it has little to do with the working day they're in, and little to do with the practical feasible, sails if the rule can be nice to some. Left supports proposal No. 3, which is present in the setting, about a competence pot. We believe it is important to build careers in and raise the status of the professions that today depend on pay. A competence pot could be such a grip. Then we believe that the way to organise tours in the workplace, and the way in which part-time work has been developed in the workplace, especially in the public sector, is a major challenge. It is striking that today’s major gender equality challenges are largely in the public sector; they remain in the public sector. We see it both in temporary employment in higher education, in the proportion of women in academic positions and in equal pay for women in the public sector. I think it should be an aha experience for all those who claim that the public sector is the only one that guarantees women and women's rights, that women's equal pay and women's rights are left in the public sector. And it's interesting to look at the status professions in the public sector. Doctors, for example, can work much more flexibly and have incredibly much longer guards than you can in the low-wage professions. The left also sees it as important to get social entrepreneurship. I find it strange that what is seen in Sweden as the great act of women's liberation, namely to provide more entrepreneurship in the public, social sector – across the public sector – in Norway is not seen as equality, but almost as undermining gender equality. It is important to give the same social rights to women who choose to start their own businesses, preferably in the social field. But there you hang, there you won't give women the same social rights. The left has presented three proposals that I would like to address, on more flexibility in parental leave, social rights and state purchasing systems to stimulate social entrepreneurship. Then I want to see a thought in the head of the council -- I don't know how open he is to it. We believe the IA agreement is a field you should look at here. Enterprises become IA enterprises, but do not pay for equal work in their own enterprise. Perhaps one of the requirements for being an IA company could be equal to the pay for equal work on its own company. Those are points of light. We're starting to see it in some studies, like this. in NTNU, where students in the industrial economy experience that the girls have a much higher starting salary than the boys — but that's because the girls do much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e604	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e607	I am proud that the government has presented the first big-time report on equal pay. It shows how gender equality policies can help reduce the pay gap between women and men. In the Communication, the government analyses and describes the problem of equal pay. The Communication sets out clear objectives and contains concrete measures that will strengthen equality between Norwegian families and Norwegian working life. An egalitarian society is a prerequisite for gender pay balance. In the Communication, we show that family and gender policies have an impact on pay differentials and on economic cohesion between the sexes. Discrimination and discrimination, which are rooted in traditions and narrow gender roles, can and must be met with political measures and laws that give more freedom to all – and better financial distribution. Women still serve on average less than men per hour of work. And women have significantly lower annual income than men. The Equal Pay Commission gave a thorough analysis of the situation. Our announcement is based on this knowledge, on the assessments and on the hearing opinions. The pay gap is not covered by one measure alone. We need action both in terms of wage formation, in terms of family policy and in terms of working life to achieve our objectives. There is a need for solutions in wage and salary statements, which may be altered by political decisions. Therefore, in the Communication, we present proposals in areas where authorities can and should take responsibility. We will prevent wage discrimination in the workplace through greater transparency of pay. We will do so by clarifying parental rights in and after leave in terms of salary and career development. We want to ensure breast-free also for those women who don't have it today. I hear that this proposal is a little haphazard from a civil society, but it is therefore about giving the women of the working class in the private sector the same rights as more privileged women in other parts of their working life. It is an important proposal for equality. Furthermore, we want to strengthen the position of women in working life through family policy measures. I am proud that the government is now presenting a sketch for the third division of the parental pension scheme. This means that we are following up on the policy we are already in the process of implementing. On 1 July there will be another extension of the spring quota. In the long term, we want a more equal system, which underlines both women's and men's rights, so that the common time of leave really is common time. The father's quota is working. Pappasm means that there is a greater chance for a father to be at home, but also the possibility for a mother to be in the workplace. We have a lot of research that highlights the relationship between paper and equal pay. In this area, the right-hand side's freedom of choice is enslaved, but false. It will lead to less equality and greater pay gap. We have heard several times now that the Progress Party and the Right are wondering that there are no more concrete measures in the communication, while at the same time they will go against all the concrete measures that are there. It amazes me. It also surprises me that they focus on weakening the Labour Environment Act as a measure to promote equal pay. It's surprising at these times that the parties on the right-hand side pull out the Adecco effect as a signal of more equal pay. I think most others experience it as a signal of wage dumping, which will hit women hard not least in the future. Equality policy has shown that it benefits, it creates change. Over two generations, we have seen some dramatic social changes in the roles and positions of women and men in work, family and social life. The pay gap is one of the great injustices that remain. The fight against involuntary part-time, the fight for equality between shifts and turns are examples of what we need to do in working life. Improving the paper industry and providing childcare facilities for all are examples of things we have to do in family policy. Of course, wage formation cannot be governed politically, but it is a political responsibility to contribute to equal pay being high on the agenda of wage-earnings. Overall, a broad strategy in the three areas will help to close the pay gap. The bourgeois opposition is going in the opposite direction. Let me quote cards from the setting: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, believes that combating pay in Norway is a central political objective.’ It illustrates in a few words what this debate is about. The right-hand side will go against the measures that contribute to equal pay in family and working life, and at the same time has no concrete proposals on how to help close the pay gap. There is a clear signal for women who are concerned with equal pay at the choice of the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e643	The councils have a big battle cause, and that's the father's quota. It is well and good to have it as a battle cause, even though the Progress Party is against the feather quota. But the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman had a case for a while back where they indicated that father is actually discriminated against in relation to mother when it comes to living together after a breakup. We see more and more cases going into court because Dad wants more care after a break in life. My question to the Council of State is, what will the Council of State do? Will the state council change the community rules to make your father more equal with your mother after a breakup?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e650	There have been changes that have strengthened Father's position in the event of a breakup. However, I do not believe that here in the Stortingen we can adopt a change in the law which means that all child distribution matters end up with the right conclusion. There's an insight into each family's life no politician here in this room can claim. On the other hand, I am fully convinced that a family and gender policy that contributes to equal responsibility for men will have equal responsibility for the children when they are young, firstly will contribute to fewer marital break-ups, because we will have families with a more equal distribution of both joy and burden, and secondly will make many men stand far better armed by breakup because they can show that they have the same responsibility for the children, the same relationship with the children, and they have the same prerequisites for taking care of the children in the future. Therefore, the policy of the Progress Party will contribute to fewer men being given the opportunity to be responsible for their children after a break in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e657	The question to the Council of State is based on the proposal for a pool of competences that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party support. I assume that the Council of State agrees that we must have a policy that makes working in the public sector profitable. We need many more health and care workers in the future. We need well-trained people in the public sector, but it costs. Why is the government not willing to pay for that competence? Why is it that the government does not want to support a pool of skills in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e662	As the first government has ever said, we want to play an active role in influencing the emphasis on equal pay in pay terms. We did the same last year. There were no proposals from the parties that provided the basis for an equal pay pot of the kind proposed by the Equal pay Commission, but we still got some important steps on the way. We also see that from the results of the settlement. The proposal put forward here by the civil parties is not a proposal in line with the proposal of the Equal pay Commission. Firstly, and it surprises me, there is an unconditional proposal that does not call for the social partners to contribute to lasting cohesion. Secondly, there is a pot that is just going to go to the highly educated women, while we have a significant equal pay problem also among the low-paid. Because it's unconditional, it means that it won't contribute to equal pay, and also that it will contribute to increased pay differentials between women. I'm against such a pot. That is why I think it is absolutely right for the government parties to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e669	It's tempting to comment on the last one. When the Lightbaken calls for a clean low-wage profile and not a skill profile on the equal pay pot, the Lightbaken can recommend its red-green friends to support the proposals of the Advance Party, for that is what they have proposed. There's a little nuance between the Right and Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. But my question to the Council of State is about the cash support. It is well known that Christian People's Party and SV have different views there. The cancellation message comes back with a negative mention of the cash support without any proposals for changes, because the government has not made it clear to me. The light sink and others have recently indicated that they want some changes and will remove the cash support, among other things. for two-year-olds, while the big cities are striving to provide adequate kindergartens for both 1-year-olds and 2-year-olds. Should the government build kindergartens in a short time for all these two-year-olds who lose the cash support, or are you just going to cut a welfare scheme, which will leave the families with the blacks?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e678	First of all, let me stress that I believe it is important to target equal pay measures against both highly educated and low-paid women. That's why it's interesting to look at the gap in the proposals of the bourgeois parties, because you want to choose either one group or the other, and you don't even agree on which group to choose. That is an important reason why we are voting against both of these proposals. In the case of cash support, as the representative knows, the government has notified that there will be changes during that period. I have said something in connection with the SV National Meeting about the direction in which we want it to go. It will be necessary, correct and good to make sure that the children we have to expect will be asked for child care after a change in the cash support gets it. Therefore, in the context of such changes, we will both come to the Grand Duchy with proposals for what needs to be done in that area, and, of course, notify the families of children in good time before changes occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e685	I do not doubt the intentions of the Swedish Council of State and want to get more equal pay. He could have been with the Farmer out here singing "Has a Dream," because there are not so many suggestions on the table here. Grandma-free is hardly what's going to lead to a big scoop for equal pay. I have one thing I would like to discuss, which I put forward as a proposal. We see in many companies that people with equal skills and equal work do not have equal pay. Could it have been possible to use the IA company-approved stamp to also push for equal pay in some jobs and use it as a means of pressuring individual jobs to go through their wage policy from an equal pay perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e692	So this big message is a message to the Stortinget about the broad government strategy in this area. This is a big message with many concrete proposals. It's also the first equal pay message ever, and it comes when we have the responsibility, and not when the left put in the position. It also says something about priority. So it's like I'd be careful not to hesitate with the proposal of breast-free. It is the sum of many measures that can contribute to equal pay. Women who are currently not entitled to breast-feeding are those who are the weakest in the labour market and are in the least organised part of the labour market. They must have the same rights as women in other parts of the world of work if they are to be able to do so, for example. share the leave to the same extent as women in the public sector do. So the representative asked me in his post if my head was open to new thoughts. My head is always open to new thoughts. I'll bring the idea to the representative of Skei Grande. It is clear that integrating the equal pay perspective into different parts of employment policy is important, so I will take that with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e702	The Council of State criticises the Progress Party for not having proposals on equal pay. He should have kept it too good in this room. It is a case that concerns equal pay spots for low-wage workers. In June 2009, the Progress Party at Siv Jensen promoted a proposal for its own equal pay spot for low-wage workers. There was an SV vote against. In August 2009, the then representative of the Audun Lysbakken and Hallgeir Langeland were high on the track and said that the equal pay pool for low-wage workers was a major issue. Is it possible that SV has lost in government in this respect? It remains to be seen. The Progress Party today has a proposal for an equal pay pot for women-dominated low-wage workers for whom SV is cordially welcome to vote. My question to the Council of State is: Is SV against such an equal pay pot for women-dominated low-wage workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e711	SV is for us to take political responsibility for contributing to equal pay through wage making, but politicians cannot dictate wage making. We can help to ensure that this is on the agenda. The government was in dialogue with the parties about it last year, and the declaration of will for that matter remains. But the pot the Advance Party proposes is something quite different. And this is going to be my criticism, parallel to the one that I promoted against the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party, just that here you choose another group: just the low pay. Again, it will not contribute to equal pay. And the criticism of the proposals of the Progress Party is also the same, in that it is a unconditional proposal, makes no claim for lasting cohesion and will only be about spending money on top of the payroll. Such a pot has never been too, because it will not contribute to equal pay. And I'm surprised that the Progress Party will spend a lot of money on it, while the Advance Party writes in the vote that they don't believe in us having an equal pay problem. After all, it is a great contradiction and shows that if it comes to the piece and the Advancement Party takes power, they will not give priority to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e721	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e724	The family and culture committee is a troublingly dominated committee, and I expect most people to know their Hans Rotmo. Although Jørn Hoel has made earnest efforts to penetrate the earpieces of us in the hall, there is still a song by Hans Rotmo I have sat and humiliated while I have heard this debate, namely the song 'The One Who Comes to Sea'. But when we hear the rhetoric of the right, it might indicate that they have the hope that most things will work out, just leave it to market forces and time to go. It's naive, it's historyless, and it suggests that you haven't recognized the many fights that Norwegian women have had to fight up over the years because we in Norway are in the situation we're in today. It's almost an indescribable belief in what the market can solve, only we leave it to business, only we leave it to the power of money – also in the field of equality. The right-hand side wants to cut the spring quota, even though we know that the examples from Denmark show us that the number of fathers who then take leave goes down. If we leave it to the market, it actually goes back. There is no quota, even Siv Jensen in the interview on Canadian television mentioned earlier said that an important premise for us to succeed in equality is that women must be elected. Yes, what has made sure that women have been selected over time? It is precisely that we have made strict demands – also on the political parties – about putting lists of women on. There has been an important break for success, by giving women the opportunity to take power positions in this society as an important prerequisite for equality. Right Linda C. Hofstad Helleland said that you want a more flexible working life. What does that mean? Yes, that means several temporary jobs. The example of archaeology in societies where there are many temporary jobs is Italy. There was the Labour Party's family and cultural fraction earlier this year. Firstly, for decades, what can be called value conservation and right-wing policies have been implemented. The result we see. Among young people under 30 years of age, the unemployment rate is 30 p.m. Of those with a job, only one fifth have a permanent job – the rest have temporary jobs. In recent months, thousands of women in Italy have marched in the streets against the policies pursued. No one has to tell me that the policy and system we see in Italy is helping to promote equality between women. Not at all! It helps keep women out of work. We know that women are basically the ones that are most vulnerable to work already, so more temporary jobs, a more flexible working life, as suggested by the Right, will send many more women back in time. They will be less linked to the labour market. They'll get less pay. Many of them have to work free of charge for their employer for up to one year before they will be assessed to get a regular job at all. We reject that policy. I think it is taking a lot of steps back if we are to pursue the policies of the Progress Party and the Right, because we should remember that what has brought Norway into the situation we are today is, of course, politics. It's not the market, it's not that we leave things to ourselves and just let time go. It's a result of social democratic politics. Through the welfare state, through a good education policy that gives everyone the opportunity to benefit, and by making strict demands for equality, we have succeeded in many ways. Where we have not yet done well, namely equal pay, we see that there is a great job to do, especially when it comes to challenging our view of what is care and who is able to provide care. Today we still have an old-fashioned view that there are largely women who can provide care. This is reflected in the number of women in kindergartens, in schools, in the health sector, while men still have the role of caring at home. Many men who want to work, get away cheaply, and many of the men who want to get away to, who want to provide care, don't get away to much enough. Here we have an important job to do, and I think that has to be cross-political. I think it has been interesting to follow this debate. I have no doubt that it is the social-democratic solutions that will bring us forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e741	The Norwegian welfare community is completely dependent on us all, both women and men, working more. We in Norway are proud of the welfare society we have managed to build, and we need to re-examine the spirit of hard work and give higher priority to work. The central statistical agency says that by 2030 there will be a shortage of 13 000 nurses – for the government it means 26 000 warm hands – and we need 40,000 help nurses. In other words, we are facing major challenges. In order to maintain the same good health system in the future, we need to recruit new people, both women and men, and we need to get those who are already in the health sector to work more full time. Women and men are the answer to future welfare challenges. But we see that more and more people give higher priority to leisure. In the previous New Year's Year, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg showed the need to ensure higher professional participation and greater value creation. We need a working time system that makes it easier for Norwegian families to combine full-time work with domestic obligations. It's a cabal and a challenge for families of children to get the day together. This will increase women’s professional income and, at the same time, help to provide Norway with badly needed labour. In Norway, which is one of the world’s most equivalised countries, women’s pre-tax income is on average 67 pst. the income of men, according to the SSB. Is the policy of the government a policy of equality, and is this a consequence of it? One of the main reasons for this difference is the high level of part-time work among women. Is this a run-down policy? The more children a woman has, the less she works. On the other hand, the man works more, the more children he has, or they have. Is the policy of the red-green government a policy of equality? With 50 pst. by Norwegian mothers work part-time, the number is for fathers down to 5 pst. Is the policy of the red-green government a policy of equality? Reduced working time is one of the main causes of the pay gap between women and men. Many Norwegian women stop working when their men retire, even if they have not reached retirement age themselves. Is the policy of the red-green government, an equality policy, and is this a consequence of it? It is a myth that part-time is linked to the infant phase. The part-time proportion of women without children and women with children over 16 years of age is 42 pst, with it at 45 pst. for women with children under 16 years of age. Is there anything we can do with this? Is there anything the government wants to do with this? Or is there anything the government can do with this? Women’s employment has been crucial for Norway to have the best welfare society in the world. By strengthening women's links with the labour market, we will achieve a cheek-egg effect: We will achieve clear equality effects, which everyone believes are important. Women receive increased income. Norwegian welfare will be ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e775	It struck me when I heard from the representative Stokkan-Grande's post that he might have to humiliate himself less and think more about his post. It's a very strange way to argue politically that you almost choose an example, and you argue against it, and in the final statement, you name a couple of Norwegian parties. It'll be like me, for example. should be taken as an example, with 40-50 pst. youth unemployment, which has a Berlin wall around its ordinary labour market, where it is virtually impossible for ordinary young people to get to work and which is managed by the Socialist Party – the sister party of the Norwegian Workers' Party, or the Workers' Party after the name change of the weekend. That, of course, is a completely meaningless way to argue. I also want to mention that market forces clearly have their limitations. No one's doubting it. Market forces have their limitations, but there is at least reason to think about why these market forces have led to higher wages for engineers. Could it have anything to do with an engineer being able to choose between the public and private sectors – that a public sector actually has to pay an engineer to maintain public sector competence, because it can then disappear into the private sector instead? I'm not saying that the market forces themselves can solve all the problems, but I'm saying that there's something you should stay up to, also on the left-hand side of the policy. I do not want to call up Right-wing policy after a law-enforcement Norwegian company, just as I expect the Workers' Party does not want to be associated with law-enforcement Norwegian municipalities, where they sit and rule. I might want to call it the Katrine Evensen effect, after a female founder in the municipality of Skien in my home country, Telemark, who started the care service – not only started her own business, but she employs especially women who have previously been unretired, who have been out of work, and who now have a chance to get back to work. She does so because she is a good employer, but also because she offers some flexibility in working life. The major obstacle to this female entrepreneur, which is one of many – but not many – were the VAT rules. For the municipality there are favourable VAT rules, while for private individuals the municipality has problems with the distortion of competition. The whole point is that if we can encourage more women to start their own businesses and hire other women, it's favorable and good. The Labour Party is discussing as if the only way we can do something about the equal pay problem is to go in and control the level of pay, or at least put ourselves so heavily on the social partners that something is going to happen that way. But the whole key is that we have to do something about the structures. Perhaps the most important reason why we have pay differentials is that women largely choose professions in the public sector, where there is no pay competition. If you can get something more competition and more women entrepreneurs, it will also do something about the long-term issue of equal pay. I also think it is alarming that the Workers' Party so much speaks negatively about doing something about the Working Environment Act. Let me do one concrete example. There is a huge problem in many places that many women work involuntary part-time. That many work on a voluntary basis part-time, I don't think is a problem. But involuntary part-time, the Workers' Party has been talking about in celebrations this year after year, and now there are hundreds of, at least dozens, pilot projects with so-called alternative turns around the country. It's done in different ways. In the municipality of Skien, for example, which had a small-scale job project, which enabled more women to obtain a fixed income per month, had the possibility of stability, had the opportunity to take up housing loans, and had the opportunity to do things that others could do with fixed and full-time jobs. There, veto from the union was laid down at Youngstorget. I myself was at a meeting in Porsgrund during the election campaign, where Jan Davidsen was met by angry local trustees in the Trade Union from the municipality of Skien, who wondered why the Trade Union would centrally decide that they were not allowed to have a project locally supported by the trustees. Then I find it quite remarkable that the Workers' Party – when we know that these attempts with alternative turns actually give more full-time jobs, no more talking about it, no more honorary words about it, but actually give more full-time jobs – is so negative to do something about the work environment law, and so negative to take away the veto rights of central trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e790	Equal pay has our theme on the political agenda for many years. Historically, it has been a matter of self - importance that women have cheaper labour than men. Now it's time for us to do something about this and realize that without a targeted, state equality policy, we will go with us this history description into the future. Even if not everyone in this room recognizes it, there needs to be a leverage for equal pay, and I also thought it was nice to see that there are many from my party who took part in this debate today. It is especially to read what the Progress Party writes in its comments, and to hear what they say in the debate today. On the one hand, they claim that there are misguided policies from our government that are the reason for the untimely pay gap, while on the other hand they go quite so far in blowing off the whole gender pay challenge, calling it a nearly non-existent equal pay challenge. We see this trend of the Progress Party in several policy areas, including the United States and Japan. on the environment, where, as the only party, they nectar for man-made climate change. It is not new that the Progress Party problems with policy areas of which they are not particularly concerned or whose policies are not particularly good. As another example, we know that gender equality and discrimination have a very important role to play in its enforcement and guidance in the rules of equality law. The Progress Party does not see this importance, and as is well known in its alternative state budget, it proposed to reduce the level of equality and discrimination. It's just to establish once and for all that there's heaven and sea in difference between the reality of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. I notice, like others, that the right-hand side wants to take credit for all of the equality policy results we've achieved in Norway, while at the same time taking a distance from almost all of the tools that are the reason for the progress. The Progress Party will not have equality laws, it has also been named here in the Chamber today. According to their program, they think that the relationship between sexes should adapt naturally, without interference with public bodies. But when it comes to our ethnic minorities, they will use the law. Then the public should interfere in what they think is female discrimination, most recently confirmed by Per-Willy Amundsen on the TV 2 news today early. Why my Advancement Party is it good to use the law here? It would be nice to get an answer. For the Labour Party, the Government and not least the trade movement, of which I am proud, it is a central political goal to fight against pay. It is, expressed in an annotation form, not for the Right and the Advance Party. An important factor that has been mentioned by several people here today, and which help to maintain pay, is the large number of women who work involuntary part-time. Part-time work affects wage and income trends, and it is a very important objective for the Labour Party and the government to reduce its scope. It is important to point out that at the same time as one has this goal, part-time also looks like a good thing for those who want shorter working hours. Involuntary part-time is a form of unemployment that the Labour Party takes seriously. As an example of what the government has done – as others have pointed out – in January, Minister of Health and Health Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen took a very important initiative to reduce part-time by at least 20 pst. during 2011. This shows how you can use your employer policy to address challenges related to part-time and pay. I am very pleased that a joint committee stresses that the work towards involuntary part-time is decisive in the work on equal pay. I also look forward to the government's further work on this, which will be discussed in the Ministry of Labour's annual report on employment, the working environment and safety that comes during the spring, and which will address several of the issues that the representative Hofstad Helleland also called for. Finally, there is no doubt that the parental quota has been a very successful tool. Most fathers take out their parental leave, but the fact is that almost no one takes out more than the father quota, and mother still takes out the most. I don't want fathers to experience it being met by critical employers who don't understand why they're going to have cardboard. I want my father to have that right to be a caregiver with my mother. The Labour Party and I believe that further strengthening the parental leave scheme and equality of parental leave will give a further boost, and that it is a decisive step towards achieving equal pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e807	First, I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a very good review of the big message that we are discussing. There we write that we want to expand the paper issue by two weeks. It sounds very simple and little. Should we stand here and discuss two tough weeks? It's only half a summer break or a Christmas break the times we're lucky. But it's not just two weeks. It's not about a week or two, it's about life and what it looks like along the way. We know that there are ladies who take out the longest leave today. They are most often at home when the child is ill. These are the most common jobs in a reduced position. They are the most difficult to employ, because the employer feels uncertain about how long they will be gone when the family increase comes, but they know that it will be long. Women serve at least, they own at least, and they receive at least a pension. Being a politician and believing that these things are not connected is a discharge. Men take out little parental leave. Most people take out what's the dad's quota, and fortunately it increases – and it increases because of the dad's quota. The more men take longer leave, the more they follow. And the longer my dad's ratio, the longer you take leave. This increases the understanding of this in the labour market. Studies also show that the more leave men take out, the more equality they get in family and working life. Then they become better acquainted with their child, it is easier for them to be at home when the child is sick, the amount of work at home is more easily shared later in life, and it becomes as vulnerable to working life to hire a man as a lady. And why don't men take out more leave? It's not because they don't want to, but it's because many people feel that they can't, either because there's a bad reception in the workplace or that sharing just isn't being discussed at home. It's too poorly organized for paper issue today, and I'm glad we want to do something about it. Increasing Dad's quota is one of the safest steps towards getting closer to the goal of equal pay. When you listen to the debate, it sounds like the leave is a matter of course, that it's a law of nature, that it's like a fine weather in April or a Sunday morning with free and coffee and newspapers or a walk in the woods, like something that's always been there. It is not felt that the parental leave can be shared. It's experienced when you listen to the opponent, like this is Mother's property, and when we create an expanded paper by earmarking one more week for Dad from the community, we take from Mother. Today's parental leave is a right and a well-being that the community pays for, because it is important for everyone that parents have time to be parents. This makes it possible to combine children and working life, and it is useful for the individual and for the community. For this reason, the Community is not too much required to provide a framework for the management of this scheme by the recipients, so that it works in such a way that father is also an equivalent parent both in the family and in the workplace, and that it is possible to make real choices. This government wants people to decide their own lives and their own home, not that sexual divisions, which even my grandmother seems to have been laid down, should decide. Nor do employers, who either dare not hire young women or make it difficult for young fathers to take up leave, decide – and at least not the Progress Party and the Right, who want people to believe that it is women’s liberation to live in a way that makes women end up with sole responsibility at home, half job and small retirement. We see that in order for people to make real choices, the community must take action to ensure that the structures of society that hinder it are built down. We want to change. What makes this a debate? Why in all days is there anyone against the development of parental leave? It's because the Right Party and the Advance Party have had a real-life rewriting campaign in recent years that has been effective. They do not want to spend money on equal pay schemes. They will not extend the permit. They don't want paperwork. And so that this doesn't sound so negative, they launch the "determine yourself" campaign. The goal of the campaign is to make women feel independent and liberated if they take the entire leave themselves. To live in a relationship where he works the most and she's most at home is to think for herself. Then you've shown that you're a modern woman of the best brand. Kristin Clemet thinks we've come too far with equality. She's against paper. She wrote a while ago that her career doesn't visit the women at home. Marianne Marthinsen answered her and wrote that perhaps father could imagine a visit to the old house, he too. Yeah, maybe your career doesn't come to visit your old home, but your career comes in your 62th birthday. Now when we want to do something about involuntary part-time, it's because it's social dumping of women, and it's our responsibility to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e826	I'm going to focus mainly on the relationship between family life and working life and what I as a man in the 55+ age group can do. Equal pay has been on the political agenda for more than 100 years, and numerous studies on the theme come to a similar conclusion on the unfairness of gender pay. We're still discussing it, and unfortunately we're going to conclude that today. But we can do a lot if we want, and the suggestions that are presented show that we're on the right track. In this context, it is fun to read the payroll protocol for digging the Steel Channel, as described in the Storing Message. There it worked 65 men and one woman. The daily salary was around NOK 1.60. According to the Communication, the margin of 4 August 1855 is as follows: ‘Att. No. 66 Stina Olsdotter's foot enjoys such a high daily allowance, can be considered to be too high, but since the Qvinnperson is a rich worker and performs his tasks equal to Karlarne, I consider it fair that she may enjoy the same reward." That simple one could argue for equal pay for equal work then, and that that principle continues even today, is a good thing. I have four hours of experience in paper schooling, rather little experience from equal pay through my professional career, and so my commitment has been then. And I don't think I'm very special -- equality, equal pay and family policy haven't shaped the talk at work, at the canteen, or at other venues where men meet. Had we men cared more and had a greater commitment to the equality struggle, we might have been much closer to the goal of this message than we are today. But then we have to go on the road – we men have to dry and not least talk about equality and family policy. There will probably be a day when men meet trembling with their little while their mother is at work, when experiences like diapers, laundry and laundry are as natural as the battle between Manchester United and Liverpool the next day. The policy of this Communication will bring that day closer. In Norway, we have a working life of high productivity, thanks to both genders being well represented, and new jobs are constantly being created with high expectations and demands for individual employees. For this reason, the government wants to challenge the social partners to make it easier to combine work with family. And we have to admit, we still have a way to go. The best way to get the best result is that all parties give equal priority to this area. Family and gender policies are very good business policies, but unfortunately they are very undervalued when discussing the major industrial policy strategies. My experience is that it's the physical framework conditions that get focus – all too often we forget what's about us people, and what's important to make us thrive and work in everyday life when business policy is on the agenda. We all have good and bad experiences of how important conditions at home are for our work at work. If we do not succeed at home, we do not succeed at work. And if we don't succeed at work, we won't succeed at home either. Often, the challenges at work and at home are related to gender equality and family policy. I read an article in Today's Business from 19 July last year about the melting plant Eramet Norway Kvinesdal, which took care of this. They sponsored a life course for their employees. The sick leave was large, and something had to be done. They discovered that much of the absence was related to life problems. ‘Privacy and working life are closely linked’, said the personnel manager of the melting plant. It is part of the story that the melting plant in retrospect had a decrease of 3 pst. in sick leave. In the evening of 23 September last year, we read about Microsoft Norway, who had put equality high on the agenda because it gives a good record for the company, for the employees and not least for the employees' families. Both examples show that the focus on gender and family policies is visible on the bottom line of these two enterprises. Experience shows that businesses who deliberately estimate that both parents are present both at work and in family life will be the winners of tomorrow. Had only more companies do the same experience. The introduction to the Evening Post article showed that the Norwegian parental leave seems to have gone too far in the United States. Therefore, it is a little sad to note that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy is in the process of thinking the same thing. What has been fought as a right is now to be replaced by voluntary action. It's the right-hand side's solution to future gender equality policies. Finally, I would encourage ourselves, and men in particular, business, public and others, to put equality and family policies on the agenda. Equality policy benefits, but it requires willingness and commitment. And the 'e it' that comes to sea' to borrow the words from the representative Stokkan-Grande's posts. We have to take care of ourselves and lift ourselves after the hair if we're going to get results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e855	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e858	The topic addressed today is one of the areas where Norway as a nation has been a leading country. Equality in Norway has been a topical issue since the year 1975. In the years following the women's year, we have developed more and more equivalent relationships between women and men in the working life, in the organisational life, in politics and within the four walls of the house. A quiet revolution has taken place in this area in Norway. It has not come of itself. It has come from an impressive political work that has been translated into laws and regulations. I can proudly say that I am a member of Norway's most equal party, the Labour Party. The equality work in the Workers' Party is shown at each and every nomination when the list is delivered to municipal, county or municipal elections. For us, it's natural that women and men should be equally represented. The nation of Norway has come a long way. We have a lot to be proud of, but we have to continue with mind-creating work like, among other things. erases the differences between women’s and men’s professions. We must work to get more men into women's dominated professions. We have an important area where we can't say we're satisfied. Part-time workers who are involuntarily looking for a full-time job are mostly women. We find the largest incidence of involuntary part-time in the health sector. Some have incredibly small posts and have to hunt for extra guards. The national assembly of the Labour Party last weekend discussed this important political work, and we will involuntarily come to life by wanting a legal real job percentage. Do you have 60 pst. position, but works 80 pst. In fact, your post must be 80 pst. We want legal preferential rights for part-time employees, legal obligations to discuss the use of part-time jobs between employees and employers, and measures against involuntary part-time and full-time must be part of the obligation of activity and reporting by the Equality Act. Some municipalities and jobs do this to a greater extent than others. We must spread the good examples systematically Achieving this objective requires the efforts of all social partners, both in the private and public sectors. The Working Environment Act allows the parties to agree flexible working time arrangements, including on a weekend basis. It is possible that dispensation practices should be more flexible. All these challenges can be addressed in the project of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs together on a better municipality, which is a continuation of the Quality Community Programme. Involuntary part-time is a woman’s problem and a gender equality issue. Therefore, this problem must also be addressed in the proud historical tradition of Norwegian gender equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e876	It's an important day today with equality eyes. That's why it's extra joy to be able to meet as being in this particular debate, when I work with equality every day. Today, many important steps are being taken to increase equality in the country. The Equal Opportunities Commission's investigation and the big shots report presented by Audun Lyssbakken provide many right measures to move in the right direction. But the big message alone solves nothing, because we have to follow up systematically. Fortunately, we have a real minister for this to happen. We need to recognise that systematic work is needed to achieve equality in practice. I am pleased that one of the measures presented is the production of wage statistics on the formation of wages in the country. It is important to raise awareness of current wages and salaries, and to get employers and employees to give priority to women in the forthcoming wage settlement. It is also important to maintain the obligation of activity and reporting on gender equality, and that the Equality Ombudsman, the Equality Centre and others examine how municipalities, state and other employers report and, perhaps as important, take action to increase gender equality in the workplace. It is also important that managers in the public and private sectors are trained in gender equality management. Equality management is not a word that is very well incorporated. That's not what you most brag about in leadership schools or elsewhere, but it's important to have an equal working life. The Ministry has provided funds for, inter alia: The Equality Centre at Hamar, Only in Steigen and the Centre for Gender Equality at the University of Agder to conduct such courses. We hope that after completing training, employers will not meet their employees in the way that a married couple I know. They had the same employer, employee in the country and shared the parental leave with two. When she came back after finishing leave, she was asked how small a position she would now have, now that she had small children at home. May I add that her husband did not get the same question? This is still happening, in 2010 and 2011, and it is not going to happen. We need a change of mind. Until that change of attitude is fully embedded in all leaders – and to the extent that among all men and all women in Norway – we need to have some legal commitments. The legalisation of the spring quota is important. Too many young fathers do not understand that the husband wants to be more with his or her child and does not work as much as possible. For these fathers, a father's quota is essential to the freedom of being able to be with their children, even if you are a man. There is a freedom Right and unfortunately the Progress Party has not got along. So the rise of the year to twelve weeks is really great. At the same time, I hope that in the future we will continue, so that we have a real third in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e895	Equality in a society is not obvious and does not come about by itself, which has been common to many. There are many years of conscious and systematic work from the left in Norwegian policies that have produced results in Norway. The work for equality between women and men concerns the rights and conditions of work and the relationship between family and working life. Several representatives from the right-wing parties believe that we have equality in Norway. I wish they were right, but unfortunately it is not. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that takes equality seriously. Submission of the paper Equality for equal pay had hardly been a reality with a bourgeois government based on the Progress Party and the Right. Several countries look to Norway to learn from our gender equality work. I understand. Women's entry into the profession has contributed more to the value creation of Norway than our oil wealth. The debate on gender equality has been high on the agenda for several years. The large, heavy trade unions have been clear and clear that equal pay must be given priority. Equal pay is one of the most important gender equality challenges in society. An uplifting survey of men, which I read for some time ago, showed that the majority of those asked are willing to refrain from wage increases if the female-dominated professions get more. The recognition of the injustice of men serving one crown where women serve eight ears is obviously about to get stuck in society. Man's willingness to contribute to equal pay is uplifting. In Soria Moria II, the government says that equal pay and the balancing of pay differences are important objectives. If the parties clarify that there is a basis for a specific pay gap and develop mechanisms to achieve a lasting equalisation so that the Norwegian wage formation system is not weakened, the government is set to engage in a closer dialogue on the issue of equal pay in future tariffs, as it showed last year. I am pleased with the government's offensive attitude on the issue of equal pay. There are several gender equality measures that need to be taken before we can achieve equal pay. A good equal pay settlement alone is not enough if the structural conditions affecting gender equality are not changed. The working party has always worked for gender equality. Much has been achieved, but much remains. Important issues with the eyes of the Workers' Party are everything from the content of the Equality Act and the liquidation of cash support to several full-time jobs in the women's dominated professions and the distribution of care in the home. The paperwork is so very important. The Labour Party is the guarantor that gender equality and equal pay policies will remain high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e914	First, I would like to refer to the distributed proposals from the Left. The Christian People's Party will vote against proposal No. 6, where we have our own model that we have proposed earlier in Stortinget. It looks just like Left's, but we have our own model. Proposals Nos. 7 and 8 will support the Christian People's Party. Then I want to highlight the representative Simensen's reference to a life course at the Eramet company in Kvinesdal – very exciting and great actions. That the representative Simensen and the Workers' Party stress that it reduces sick leave is very good, but also very interesting. Because there's something the government really has downgraded and chose not to bet on in the years they've been in power, it's just a life course. They've been systematically down-prioritised and cut off by the government. So we can hope that the representative's posts will carry an offer for a new course in this way. Then I want to go back to the cash support, not because the cash support debate is a main issue in the debate on equal pay, but because it illustrates something very interesting. The government points out that there is a problem that some parents choose to be at home with their kids and receive cash support, among other things. because it may reduce their motivation to seek employment. There might be something about the duality of communication here that is the problem for the red-greens: if it's so dangerous, and if it's so problematic that some parents choose to spend more time with their kids, why in the world do you think that men should now start spending more time with the kids, more time on care and more time at home? It's a total inconsistency, it's not related, and it's a double communication that makes it much more difficult to achieve the goal. After all, the aim must not be to allow parents to spend as much time as possible with their children, to obtain the minimum freedom of choice or to minimise flexibility in everyday life. The aim must be to facilitate the combination of working life and family life, to go on leave, to work part-time – men or women – if you want a period, to facilitate a good family life, but to have opportunities to come back, to bet on a career, to have a good wage development during leave, and to come back and be respected for the choices you make. That must be the main point. That's the way forward for young people to be able to bet on both a career and having and raising kids and bet on family life. It is both a good social economy and a good gender equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e925	It's a pleasure to stand here and talk about almost just women – because that's how I feel. I am a nurse, and I have never experienced – to date – that my male colleagues have paid worse than I have. We have to be clear that equal pay actually has many, many places in our society, and especially in the profession I come from. I am also proud for periods to have chosen to go down in the position. I have been a volunteer part-time worker, because my family and I have found out that it was best to do it for periods – and the jam I am proud of it. What I'm a little worried about with this debate is that now that we're going to have the right to a full-time job, they can, as well, have part-time jobs, be looked down on a little bit. It's a little difficult and tough for those out there, they have care tasks or there are other things that make them decide not to have a full position. So we're going to be a little careful with that. Involuntary part-time: It is important for those who want to do so to get into a position. I have two suggestions that are important to bring with me. We have to get flexible solutions in relation to the turns, and we have to take the advice to get the basic crew up, especially within the health care system. This will make more people work all the time, and one will actually get a drop in the sick leave, which is very high in this industry. It's great that so many men want to take care of and care, as one sees that women may take a lot of care. That's what I thought was positive. But it's not useful to talk, it's useful to act. It is my challenge to all those who have spoken about this in the pulpit. The representative Ingarill Olsen of the Labour Party says that she is proud to be a member of the most equal party in Norway. Well, you might say that. But in Dagbladet on 7 April this year, the Labour Party's female political leader, Anniken Huitfeldt, is going out and considering giving women workers responsible for older parents paid maternity leave. Welcome after, so good! We had proposals last March – a year ago. Has there been a lot of happening in society at that time? I don't think so. We received support from the Christian People's Party. Thank you for that, but I could imagine that support came from the Workers' Party, since they are so busy with this. And they just want to give it to the women. But dear friend, isn't that equality we're going to have? What about men who have stood on the pulpit and said that they want to take more care of themselves? There's something wrong. I say, welcome after, I think the proposal should come up again, and then we're going to support it, but then it's going to apply to both women and men. And what about the elderly who only have boys? Is it their sambas or their wives who are going to tread in there as well, like all the other places? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e942	I drew myself to give a few considerations on the tame of the debate. Unlike previous debates, the Right has said very little, perhaps nothing, about the feather quota. I don't think anyone here disagrees with the fact that dad is more at home, has a positive effect on women's wage development. We also have research to show that. My question to the Right is: if the removal of the parental quota results in a father being less at home, as we see developments have been in Denmark, will the Right then change the policy, or is the freedom of choice more important to the Right than the development of women's income? Finally, a few words about pot. As the Council of State was involved in the change of line, SV has called for an equal pay pot — a pot for both low-paid and educational groups — which requires an obliging plan from the social partners, as proposed by the Equal pay Commission. The right-hand side is trying today with a left-hand manoeuvre on SV. They propose a pot from each group – the right proposes a pool of skills, and the Progress Party proposes a low-wage pot. They disagree on who should be given priority. I must point out that the proposals contain no money, no plan and no obligations on how this should be followed up in order to become an equal pay promise. When neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party has prioritised this in their alternative budgets, I attach little confidence that they will use their positioning power to prioritize it. They didn't when they were in position earlier. I have to state again that it is with the Swedish Government that we have progressed in this field. We are in favour of a pot that obliges both politicians and the social partners, and that lifts all women, not just one group. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e955	It was the intervention of the representative of Røe Isaksen that made me ask again for the floor. Now he is no longer in the room, but I would like to add two comments to what has actually been a review theme in the Right post today. It has been an important period for the Right Party to soften its profile and make it more social. So it's the track the Right Today is on, surprisingly traditional market liberalism. The representative, Røe Isaksen, said that increased pay competition could raise women's wages. Obviously, if those you compete with are highly-paid engineers in the private sector, it can have such an effect. But if the ones you compete with, for example, are private actors in the care of the elderly, they can only reduce costs in one of two ways: either the quality of care or the conditions for the employees. Then it goes without saying that the pay competition will not lead to a spiral upwards, but a spiral downwards. So it's a question of who you're competing with, who decides whether or not increased pay competition will contribute to equal pay. And for too many of the ladies we are talking about today, increased competition will mean increased competition from private players who – if they want to influence wage developments – will have a negative impact on it. It is also said that various, more flexible, rotation schemes are stopped by the trade unions centrally, and that doing something about the work environment law will therefore be a useful tool in the fight for equal pay. This is repeated many times in the debate. But if we go into the statistics and look at what trade unions are doing centrally with applications for untraditional tournaments, then an overwhelming majority of those proposals are accepted. There are very few such schemes that are not accepted by the central federations. It is a myth that the trade union movement is standing in the way of trying out schemes that can give more women full-time access. One of the surprising things about this debate is that the bourgeois – at least the two parties on the far right – have put such emphasis on proposals that we know do not contribute to equal pay. Because we know a lot about what contributes to equal pay. We know that cardboard and kindergarten contribute. That's what research says. We know that full time contributes. We know that breaking with traditional career choices contributes. We know that giving rights, transparency in relation to situations that make it possible to combat discrimination, for example. by means of wage and salary statistics, contributes. And then we know that competition with other employees who have low wages does not contribute, and that more cash support does not contribute. Nevertheless, there are the last two things very much of this debate about, and it's a little remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e964	It is strange to listen to the Council of State's perception of what are the mechanisms in competition. Competition is not primarily about who you compete with, but what you compete for. If you compete for a scarce asset, yes, the price will go up. That's something we have quite a long and good experience for. The point is that we know that in very many caregivers there is a great need for hands. There is a shortage of labour, and that shortage will be strongly increasing in the coming years. This means that it will be scarce and it will be profitable if there are actually market players who are willing to compete for the resource represented by labour in the main areas here. My view of this debate is that it is strikingly defensive on the part of the government. For my own part, I had to wait until Ingalill Olsen's posts before it really came to something concrete about what you want. Then I had waited for two hours. Before that, speaking time had been mainly used to talk about Adecco, a company that has broken the law and lost its jobs. The reason for this may be that if we are to move forward on these issues, we need to approach some dangerous issues, namely labour law and the participation of private actors. There is a border country in which government parties obviously do not like to have to enter. On the other hand, a lot of time has been spent talking about history, trying to monopolize the history of the red-green parties. I'm so old that I remember discussions in my own party about equality, and I think for example. that it is to make Kaci Kullmann Five and Annelise Höegh great, great injustice not to recognize them important roles in equality in our country. But in the case of history writing, which you're so concerned about, the important point is to understand history and learn from it. Then I think maybe the representative Stokkan-Grande would have more fun going to Sweden, which, after all, we have a more comparable story to what we have with Italy. In Sweden, there is a completely different openness to take the difficult discussions that this debate has sparkled with its absence. Maybe we would have come further if we had.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e975	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3510]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e993	Let me first underline that we live in a rich country and expect people from other parts of the world to want to come here to make money. A number of people who come here also have a real need for protection from persecution. On average, people from other countries are neither more at work nor less law-abiding than persons born here and have grandparents born here. Let's make this very clear. At the same time, we are in a situation where we have fairly free flow of information, capital and labour. When we do this in Norway, information, capital and workers are streaming here. We serve that very much as a nation, and that is positive for Norway as such. When we make sure that information also goes out in the world that Norway is a nice place to commit social security crime, we decide whether it should be easy, lucrative and little risky to commit crime here. Let me then ask the following question: What happens if it is possible to get quite a lot of extra money from the state or the municipality regularly? The only thing that is required is that one provides false information to a public authority and the authorities do not have a legal basis for verifying the information provided. I'll leave the answers for now. For approx. A month ago we became aware, through a notice in Dagsrevyen, that the police went into action against several Somali children's families who are targeted for gross fraud. Each family should have cheated the state for about 800,000 kroner by claiming that they are divorced and that the mother is a single parent. When the debate on social security fraud among Somali mothers flared up in 2007, the head of Nav’s control and collection, Magne Fladby, went out and said: ‘At present, this kind of fraud is increasing most in the new welfare state.’ When we were reminded again of these relationships through the Day Review in a look-up a month ago, it gives me at least a feeling that things haven't improved since 2007. In other words, you can also ask yourself the question – and as I said at the outset, have we given the authorities the necessary legal support to exercise the necessary control? On 18 August last year, Kadra Yusuf wrote a chronicle in the VG entitled ‘To the welfare state separates us’. The chronicle also received a lot of editorial attention and created a debate. The main message to Kadra was that Somali women differed according to Norwegian law, but lived on with the men they were married to under Islamic law. The welfare system is abused for economic reasons, where immigrant children are the big losers, was her main message. As a politician, I would like to thank Kadra, who through this chronicle gave us a detailed insight into how it is thinking and acting in the Somali environment. Figures from the Central Statistical Office show that three out of four Somali women do not work, one out of three are divorced, and half have more than three children. The number of lone dependants is two and a half times higher among Somalis than among other immigrants and the average for the whole population. I then ask myself, what is the reason why people who come from a conservative Sunni Muslim country suddenly choose to differ in Norway? Is it possible that we have social welfare schemes that make it far more lucrative to be single-parent than to be out in the workplace? Kadra writes in his chronicle: ‘This is a paradox. Because we're talking about resource-powerful women who've managed to escape from war on Africa's horns. They have all been subjected to great trials and risked a lot on the journey. The goal is a life in Norway where they can live in freedom – and take care of their family. But well installed in Norway, they meet a social society that indirectly encourages couples to stand out on paper and promote single mothers with large children’s flocks. This has tragic consequences for many families. Because the fictitious divorce is not just a paper fraud. In fear of having unannounced visits from NAV, the man often leaves home during the day, and many Somali men apply to the khat environment in Greenland.’ The consequences of what Kadra writes give me new concerns – concerns that we should all have been concerned about, namely the fact that children grow up in dissolved homes without a fixed framework, which in turn creates chaos in the home. I think we politicians must dare to see the truth in their eyes: the Norwegian welfare system is being abused for economic reasons, where unfortunately the immigrant children become the big losers. Human Rights Service has reported in several rounds on identity-related, fictitious asylum seekers, child abuse for residence, tricking with the number of children’s identity in order to obtain more support and lies about marital status. Let's do two examples: an immigrant woman who tells the truth. She's married, but she can't live with the granddaddy, because the granddaddy's still on the run abroad. She's alone with two kids aged four and five, participating in an introduction program. She will receive a total of NOK 169 052 in child benefit and in introduction benefit. Let's take the second example: a immigrant woman doesn't tell the truth. She's married, lives with the granddaddy, but she tells me she's divorced. They also have two children aged four and five, and she participates in an introduction programme. She will be paid a total of 332,000 kroner in transitional social assistance, introductory social assistance, child welfare and support for child care. In these two examples, the answer gives itself. Why in the world are you going to miss thousands of dollars by telling me you're married? One of those who's tried to make us politicians aware of the social security system is police attorney Trond Hövik. In Police Judiciary No. 2 in 2009 he wrote an indisputable speech on how social security abuse is taking place, where he also made a number of proposals for solutions to the problem. Back to Kadra and her chronicle, where she concludes by pointing out that the problem of social security abuse among Somalis must be tackled from an ethnic cultural point of view. My starting point and the overall objective must be that Somali immigrants must leave behind the role of passive social welfare recipients with poor family relationships and into income-generating work, for this situation has evolved, requiring us to take new and stronger action. I will therefore, at the end of my post, challenge the Council of State on some of the handles that could have been taken. The first: today, all information contained in the Folkeregister is also subject to the decisions of Nav and the municipalities on social benefits. Should you have seen other ways of retrieving information? Should the information be documented and checked differently from what we are doing today? For example, when a Somali lady comes and claims she's divorced, should she also provide evidence that she's divorced by Islamic law, not just by the Norwegian? The second measure: the authorities of the public register in order to require documentation for information should be reviewed at my discretion. An access to correcting incorrect information on civil status in the People's Registry with a description of the procedure should be assessed by law. Today it's paradoxical enough that even if you're wrong in the People's Register, no one can change those mistakes, and the payments continue. It's a little bit of this challenge. Do we then want to be able to take some simple steps to get better control and get the opportunity to fix that kind of thing? Other measures that might have been wanted to challenge the Council of State, which could have helped improve the situation, are fingerprinting. For family reunification, it's very little used, and the times it's used, it's kept very short. It could have been thought that fingerprints should be considered registered as an identification tool, among others. in family reunification cases to prevent multiple abuses of the same identity or that the same person may operate with multiple identities? It is also one of the measures I could imagine challenging the Council of State to limit social security abuse. Now I see the time is up, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1049	The representative stayed well within the time frame, so it's excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1052	Before I go over to talk about how we can contribute to the employment of as many people as possible with a migrant background, and how to ensure that we live on social security as little as possible, I would like to say something in general about the abuse of social security schemes. Social fraud is unacceptable in the same way as any fraud involving public funds is. It is good and necessary to detect fraud. Community funds shall go to those for whom the scheme is intended and not to those who cheat. The abuse of welfare systems is therefore a serious problem, regardless of who is behind it. We know that social security is taking place in different populations and is not inherently linked to ethnicity or culture. It is the individual who abuses a system to be held accountable and not the group to which he belongs. When we see that certain types of jokes take place on a certain scale in some groups, it is of course important information that makes it relevant and necessary to look at how we can end illegalities in that group. The State of work and welfare carries out risk analyses to identify areas of social benefit with a special risk of mispayments and abuse. Social benefits for lone dependants are considered to be a risk area by the establishment. The hub control and collection report that they record a good preventative effect of the efforts against the misuse of social benefits to lone dependants. If a group is overrepresented as social security users, more people in that environment will, in line with what I have said, be controlled. I think that's right, and that's an effective way to fight social security. The benefit to lone-parents has a dual purpose. It shall provide security of income for the sole care of children, and it shall provide temporary assistance for self-help so that the beneficiary can be able to support himself in his own work. My ministry has been given an assessment of the functioning of the social welfare scheme for lone dependants for recipients with a migrant background. That report concludes that the social welfare scheme works well on the way, with a view to helping to get the beneficiaries with a migrant background into work. However, the scheme does not work for everyone. It is the most resource-intensive receivers that have the best results. We see that people with high qualifications and considerable difficulties in self-orientation have less chances of getting to work. These are the results we need to take seriously, and which the government must not least take into account in the follow-up to the Brochmann Committee's forthcoming position, which is just about to take into account the relationship between migration, immigration and our welfare systems. At the beginning of 2010, there were more than 25 000 with Somali background in Norway. Nearly 18,000 of them have a refugee background. Norwegian somaliere is averaged a young population. Of the children born in Norway, about 80 pst. less than 10 years in 2008. Very many Norwegian Somalis are doing well, and they contribute to Norwegian working and social life. That must also be the basis for this debate. But if we compare the Norwegian Somalis as a group with other groups, we see that people with Somali background in Norway have low employment and high unemployment. Very many in this group have government transfers as their principal income. Many Somalis are in great need of qualification, including: due to a small school background and short stay in Norway. They come from a warring country, where the education system has been destroyed for a long time. In recent years, Somalis have made up a relatively large group of newcomers to Norway. About a third of those who are here have lived here for four years or less. The introduction programme is therefore a central instrument for providing these groups with basic qualifications. In 2009, Somalia was the largest single group in the programme. The aim is to strengthen the opportunities for newcomers to participate in professional and social life and to strengthen their financial autonomy. Women in the introduction programme have a consistently lower transition to work than men, particularly women from Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia. In a recent report, the programme appears to be running and functioning differently for women and men from these groups. The report provides knowledge of possible reasons why some groups of women are making it worse in the introduction programme. It is important for me to stress that we should not lower the level of ambition for women in the introduction programme, nor for women with Somali background. These include: therefore, the Grand Duchy is now considering a proposal to strengthen the State supervision of the implementation of the introduction programme in the municipalities. Women with low education and a high level of care also need to receive individually adapted and high-quality induction programmes, and it must be a clear objective for women to get involved in work or education. It is essential to ensure equality and economic autonomy for these women, but also to balance social differences and combat child poverty in Norway. Schemes such as the New Chance Qualification Programme are important instruments for reaching people who are out of work after living for a long time in Norway. Figures from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare show that 40 pst. by the participants in the qualification programme are immigrants, of which the largest group from Somalia. New opportunities, which are thus targeted at women who have not lived on transfers but who have been at home and out of work for a long time, have been focusing on women with a background from particularly low-employment rural groups since 2009. somaliere. For some immigrants, the meeting with the Norwegian welfare state can be a challenge and the need for information can be great. I believe it is important that everyone in Norway has a basic knowledge of the Norwegian welfare community – how it works, how it is built up, why it works, what values it is built on – with both rights and obligations that belong to it. That is why I have commissioned Vox, the national expert body for competence policy, to develop a separate training scheme for newly arrived immigrants. For workers in the State of Employment and Welfare it may be difficult to communicate what the State of Welfare implies in a clear way to persons with an experience background different from that of the Norwegian. This is why a competence development measure has been launched for Nav staff. Then we must not forget that it is not just that people with Somali background are struggling on the Norwegian labour market because they lack qualification. Many well-trained Norwegian Somalis also struggle to get a job. Therefore, systematic recruitment is important in order to take advantage of the wide range of competences in the population, including those with a Somali background, and the public sector interview system is an important measure in this context. It requires that at least one applicant with a migrant background be invited for an interview if he or she is qualified for the job. This scheme is already in place in the country, with good results. It is now introduced as a voluntary scheme in the municipalities, and I hope that the municipalities also have positive experience with this. Oslo Municipality, which is part of the Progress Party, is one of the municipalities that has good results, but I looked to my disappointment that the Progress Party strongly criticized the voluntary scheme – which we are now launching for other municipalities – last week. The representative Eriksson asks me if I am willing to tackle the problem from a cultural point of view. First of all, I'm concerned with results. I am committed to improving the integration policy instruments we have. It means, of course, that when a problem is overrepresented in a particular ethnic group, it is relevant and important information that can help us to solve it. But we have to draw a sharp distinction between that and pursuing an integration policy that makes it seem that certain social problems are culturally dependent. There has not been a lack of social security in Norwegian society until the Somalis arrived, and there are very many Norwegian Somalis who are making a great effort for this society, both in the working and social life. This is why the government's integration policy is about language, work and equality and not about cultural struggles, and that is an important distinction in integration policy. In summary, I would like to underline the following: Social security fraud is unacceptable, regardless of who is behind it. Systematic work is required to detect abuse. The hub control and collection do this. We need to do what we can to help several Norwegian Somalis get into work, by improving the existing instruments, and we need to facilitate that well-qualified people, including Norwegian Somalis, get jobs for which they are qualified.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1094	I thank the Council of State for the article, but I probably miss a lot of answers. I agree that yes, we have a task to make sure that we have a labour market in which everyone who can participate participates. But what concrete action does the government want to take to provide the labour market, making it possible to enter? Well, then we talk about moving on to the integration policies that have been pursued, which have shown that we have not succeeded, which have been unsuccessful in many ways. I see that the largest government party, the Labour Party, had a big debate on this very topic at its national meeting, where 99 different measures were put forward to improve integration. Now I am not going to go through which are good and bad of those measures, but there is a significant debate that also confirms – at least in my mind – that the policies that have been pursued have not been good enough. Then it is – and there I agree with the Council of State – that when you are willing to attack it from a cultural point of view, you do not have to look unilaterally at a particular minority or a particular group of people from a particular country. It's just to take the information that Norwegian Somalis come to us with and say that's a problem. We can't have it that way. Norwegian somaliere, such as Kadra, is so clear and says that if we're going to do something about this problem, it has to be attacked from a cultural point of view. Because there are also many Norwegian Somalis who, of course, make a huge effort, are resource-intensive and participate in the labour market. My concern is that I want everyone else to do the same thing, that it is going to be more lucrative for them to participate in the work rather than to stand outside, and that you have more than 330,000 kroner in different social security schemes if you organize yourself properly. It's going to be a mistake in my head. Then the Council of State refers to the qualification programme. Yes, but I see that the government itself is making the entire qualification programme a solid flop by making fewer and fewer of those who go through the qualification programme come out into work. There are also no figures on how many people have managed to get through and help out permanently in the workplace. But you have numbers that show how you go through from one measure to another, and those that are permanently insured afterwards. It is also a challenge that I hope the Council of States can take along, but that he will also be more specific about the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1103	The integration policies that have been pursued in recent years, with the introduction programme as the most central instrument, have been very successful. Unlike where we were 10 or 15 years ago, where there was a little systematized training offer, little systematized rights and obligations for those who came to Norway, it is today that we have a targeted race for newly arrived refugees and immigrants with a very clear aim, that everyone should qualify for employment, that everyone has a right and a duty to learn Norwegian, and that we want both women and men to participate in employment. The introduction programme has been a great success, and we have also seen that for several years we have had results that have pointed upwards. This also applies to Norwegian training. However, we need to get better, and we need to address some specific challenges. We need to target Norwegian training, strengthen Norwegian training better. That is why I and the government recently made a proposal to the Stortinget to double the number of Norwegian hours that newcomers have the right and duty to take, from 300 to 600 hours, and we need language training and an introduction program that takes into account the specific needs of women. It means putting more emphasis on language practices, for example, and it means preventing the introduction programme from becoming a part-time programme in some places in the country, which is not intended. In order to achieve this, we have now also made proposals to the Stortinget to introduce State supervision of programmes. In the last report on the results of the programme, the results are slightly reduced. This may be due to the financial crisis that creates a more difficult labour market, but it may also reflect that the composition of the refugees who have come to Norway in recent years, among others. has been made up of a greater proportion of people from countries with corrupted education systems, where the Norwegian labour market is initially weaker. It makes demands on us, and we need to adapt that to the introduction program. In the case of concrete measures relating to social security, the most important is effective control. It drives Nav control and collection, and they say they have satisfactory results. But we have to go in and see if there is political action we can take on the arrangement of certain welfare schemes, which can help prevent social security. That's why we put down the Brochmann committee. But let me stress that this should not mean that we are going out with the bath water and destroying wide welfare systems that are important to many people in Norway. The welfare state is robust and a much better alternative to integration than the countries that take immigrants into an unregulated working life without welfare schemes, with a large ethnic subclass that we have so far avoided in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1114	I want to thank the interpellant for raising a useful issue, and I am glad that the speeches – and not least from the Council of State – show that there is a problem where one wants to go offensively and positively to work, where one looks at solving challenges of social security abuse and lack of integration for Somalis as serious and serious, but one sees it as an opportunity to succeed and does not have an angle where one stigmatizes groups and chooses the negative angle. That is important in the debate. I want to raise another perspective in the debate, because I think it's useful and exciting to be able to look a little bit over the pond to get a little perspective. I want to draw up examples from Minnesota, which have many similarities with Norway, while, of course, there are differences. Minnesota is a country that has a lot in common with Norway: Minnesota has five million inhabitants. The country has a more developed welfare system than many of the other countries. The state has many cold winters, and it has many warm homes. In Norway, there are more than 20,000 Somalis. In Minnesota, it's more than twice that. In Norway, Somalis are considered one of the not well integrated groups and only three out of ten have a job. In Minnesota, it's not like that. There's over 70 pst. by the Somalis at work. Hardly 3 pst. is registered as unemployed, and only 4 pst. of which government transfers are received. A former Minister of Labour and Inclusion pointed out in 2009: ‘The Somali population has lower living conditions and lower participation in working and social life than many other groups in Norway, and it is important to find ways to improve this. In order to succeed in the work, it is important to take in knowledge from both the Norwegian-Somalic environment and researchers in the field.’ I think it was a wise approach. That is why I also have great expectations of the work the Council of State refers to, namely that one is going into the issues and makes concrete proposals on how one can contribute to the welfare system being the safety net it is supposed to be, and not a way for new countrymen to be prevented from becoming integrated and prevented from taking part in the labour market. Social welfare schemes are supposed to be self-driving, that's the point. The question is whether we expect refugees to be strong enough to handle themselves, or whether we make them poor and expect us to help them. Of course, it's neither – nor, there's something in the middle, but I think it's an interesting question to ask. While one should be there to help and ensure through the scheme, it is important that one should also be there and make demands. The goal must be that those people who come to Norway and who have a hope and a dream of success are allowed to succeed. Many of the people who are coming just want to get to work. It's not necessarily that sitting two years on the school bench and learning a language is what they're most motivated for. It's not necessarily the way you've been doing it, either, that getting big social benefits is what stimulates you to get into work. I don't come up with the answers in the points I'm raising now, but I think it's important that we discuss it and that we can make more facts on the table. The most important thing is that one gets a way into work, and then measures, being able to help them get a job, are incredibly important. But, as the interpellant was also involved, it is possible to apply the Working Environment Act to help. When discussing tour arrangements or temporary jobs, etc., it is clear that there is a lot that can be the first job, the first way into working life, which can help them to move on. It's exciting and maybe something you can think about even more in the future. Maybe it's possible to accommodate some jobs like some kind of step 1 in a kind of introduction job, where a person actually gets an opportunity to contribute by using his hands, be motivated and through it maybe also learn language. In the end, I'll raise one last point, and that's the volunteer. It's not to be demeaned for resident consultants and other employees in Nav, but we need more good neighbors. We need to rebuild volunteering, where one can succeed, like what I was at Abildsø, where a group of people volunteer with language training, accept new arrivals, distribute dinner visits and set up. They're like the refugee consultants, just volunteers through communities or organizations, where they provide nesting and helping them into society. We need warm encounters between people, not call home.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1139	I would like to thank the interpellant for taking up such an important theme as social security abuse. Recently, social security fraud has been detected among Somalis in Norway, where spouses have taken out divorces under Norwegian law, but continue to live together and be married under Somali law. This isn't a phenomenon we only see in Somali environment, unfortunately, but it's in this environment challenges are greatest. The Somalia project, which was carried out in 2004–2005, was a project that dealt with social security abuse among Somalis. The report shows that this is not peculiar to the Somali environment. But still today, six to seven years later, we have such a big problem. The report also shows that the main cause of social security abuse is the economic situation of Somalis. They come from a warring country with no welfare system. They don't understand what it means for the state to take responsibility for them. One of the reasons that Somalis are struggling in Norway is that they have problems getting a job because of lack of language skills and qualifications. They feel bad about social services and have pressure from their home country to send money home. Mosques have engaged themselves in a few ways at the end of this, among other things. by stressing to Somalis that it is just as crazy to lie to non-Muslims as to Muslims. That's very good. Ubah Abdulqadir was one of the project staff in this project. She said about this and thought the mosques could be a key to getting rid of the problem. She recommended Nav, among others. to require a certificate from the mosque in the event of a dubious divorce. The then Secretary of State Libe Rieber-Mohn would not comment on the case from an ethnic background. ‘This is social security abuse and fraud. But we have to deal with social security abuse on a general basis, not in relation to ethnicity." said Rieber-Mohn to the magazine Velferd. Nor would Karin Andersen, who was the leader of the Storting Labour and Social Committee at the time, address the problem from an ethnic point of view. She wouldn't ask the mosques for help either. ‘There is no one other than official authorities that celebrates and separates people. Such a certificate may be interpreted as recognising the double need for divorce.’;» she said. If you're going to have social security abuse among immigrants, you're going to have to talk about the problem and not mess about it. Good representatives for just talking about the facts are Kadra Yusuf and Amal Aden. They have been open for a long time about social security abuse, without being duly heard. When it comes to the unpleasant debates and one is going to put words on what's real, they often fail red-green. We'll find that you can't talk about it for ethnic reasons or for perspectives. Instead, we feel that those who dare to remove the leaf from their mouths are seen as scapegoats. We can't stick under the chair that this could be more widespread than what's currently dedicated to it. Perhaps the time has come to look at the different social security schemes we have seen in total. Unfortunately, such events will cause those in need of such social security benefits to suffer, because there are always others who destroy. Norwegian social security schemes are based on trust between social security beneficiaries and social security providers, and we should get that further in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1164	Today, the Progress Party invites to a debate on immigration, and it is built over the same train as before: With outputs that characterise whole groups, the Progress Party draws a one-sided picture of the Norwegian system being exploited. So is today. In a question of how to get people from passive beneficiaries to become active contributors, they include issues of social-security abuse. But being a social worker is not the same thing as doing social security abuse. In the extension of this – abuse of social benefits is something we are all opposed to. It is a task for the third state power to stop this, but there are also measures beyond that. Authorities are now cooperating at several levels in order to deal with minor breaches of social security legislation outside the criminal justice system. Dealing with social security abuse is important because such abuse challenges a strong idea in Norway, namely that one should not take advantage of our community. We don't like people wondering something they don't legally claim. The rules are broken, irritating both those who receive social benefits and those who feel that their contribution to the community is not used as it should be. It's about big sums. In the last three years, more than 3000 people have been registered for social security fraud for a total of 448 million. kr, and the numbers of darkness are large. If we were just to discuss attitudes to social security abuse today, this would be a short affair. We're going to discuss participation. The multicultural society is enriching Norway, and we need more community contributors. The population is aged, and those who can contribute must work instead of being passive recipients. The employment of non-Western immigrants is too low, especially among women, and we know that not having a job leads to poverty. The fact that many women don't have a job to do makes us have to ask ourselves some questions. We have to ask ourselves if she's at home from her own choice, or if it's an expression of a human-dominated view of society. The last is not okay, but the first can also be problematic if it has developed a culture in which women are not expected to seek the independence and freedom of being able to support themselves. We cannot close our eyes because in many environments there are such attitudes. They must be combated by an informed debate and by supporting the forces that want to be liberated from such a social order. There are strong words coming from women in Somali environments – women who break a silence. The thoughts go back to the books of women's champion Camilla Collett on the role of women in Norwegian society over 100 years ago. The stories of today's women's champions are just «From the Stumme's Camp». In order to increase the participation of immigrants in the labour market, we also need to stop discrimination. The workplace is an important meeting place between immigrants and the rest of the population. Some people experience discrimination when applying for a job, and we have to do something about that. There is a call-in obligation: at least an applicant with a migrant background must be invited for an interview if he/she is qualified for public positions. It is also important to facilitate participation through language training and other welfare services, such as kindergarten. Language training is extended from 300 hours to 600 hours, it is full kindergarten coverage, and in the inner east of Oslo it is also free of charge core time. By supporting gender equality in some minority settings and by taking active action to get people from social security to work, we will increase employment in some immigrant environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1181	This interpellation raises some important issues, but it's kind of divided into two. The first part is a talk of social security fraud, which, of course, I, and I'm counting on most people, take a distance from, and as one has to do something with. It was no more than a month ago that the Evening Post, VG and others could report that the Oslo police had had a major action where several Somali families were exposed and arrested for the very kind of social security fraud on which it is focused. I expect that this is something that the police will follow up on. It also shows that it actually becomes a priority and tackles these kinds of things. It's important because it's called signal power. There is no doubt that in some environments the attitude has been to do so, but as soon as there is a strong focus on the fact that this is a clear violation of Norwegian law and something you have to deal with, which you have to clean up, then at least the experience is that then the attitudes change. Then the signals are different. That is why it is good that the police have prioritised this. So it's the interesting part of the interpellation, and that's how to increase employment especially among Somali women, who it's focused on here. That's natural, because, as we know, it's the lowest-employment group. So one can ask the question, why is it like that? Well, if you come from a country that's not a country, that doesn't work, where illiteracy is widespread, where social institutions are lacking, where there's no kind of -- I was saying -- education and education in the growing up of the public or society, then you have a rather difficult starting point. For this reason, proposals from the government, which the Right will fully support and have required a long time, on the extension of the right and the obligation to Norwegian training by betting on written tests at the end of the Norwegian and social course, are so important now. Other informal and formal actions involve cooperation between non-governmental organisations, kindergartens, schools where mothers, possibly fathers, are also involved, where one may have children in kindergarten while the mother attends Norwegian courses. This is the kind of action we need to focus more and more on. But it is incredibly important to send the signal that all kinds of breaches of Norwegian law and not least fraud of the community's funds through fictional divorces and that kind of thing, it is going to be hard to break down. So it is okay that the Storting today sends the signal that this is unacceptable. But my opinion is that this has also now been understood by the Somali environment and other environments, because the police have acted, the police have put their feet down and turned down that kind of fraud. The most important thing, of course, is that we now have the opportunity to conduct Norwegian training, to pursue social training, to integrate into society. I also want to strike for the job that non-governmental organisations do. Integrating into the community environment in a way other than through municipal or state action is incredibly important. The fact that Red Cross and other non-governmental organisations acquire – I was saying – friends, have support contacts in different immigrant environments is very important. This means that faster integration into Norwegian society. I think it is important that we discuss this. I have some doubts as to whether the connection between fraud and labour participation is correct, to say it carefully. However, it is important to combat fraud through police and judicial channels. Norwegian training and integration in the labour market must stimulate positive action, which requires, at the same time, the rights of those concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1197	Social security is totally unacceptable, and I'm very pleased, and not surprised, that the Council of State says very, very clearly that social security is unacceptable and something we have to make sure to fight all the way, because it undermines the confidence of the welfare state, and it undermines in a way the need we have for each other. Social security is a great thing, and it's not all people who are equally concerned about increasing them. But we are busy having a good safety net, and then social security also needs to be used properly and not exploited. I believe that the government is doing a decent job in this matter. I believe that the job that has been done by Nav by gripping this – just as Trond Helleland was in it – shows that what goes on social security is a serious thing. We have, as many people have been in the past, both Amal Aden and Kadra Yusuf, who are some of the people who have stood up and said that social security fraud is going on here. There is no doubt that the anecdotes that have also gone into Nav have been gripped in a proper way and have led to the detection of concrete examples of social security benefits. In addition to discussing just that, we should go in and discuss two of the things that are important. One is about what we as a community can do so that Somali women in particular can get into work, but also how the social security we have must not function negatively when it comes to integration. The biggest disaster integration policy is the cash support, of which the Progress Party is a hot one, and where I see very clearly that we are working so that it will no longer be paid for two-year-olds, which will be important. We see very clearly, for example. in Oslo, at 80 pst. of those receiving cash support are people with a minority background. And paying women to stay away from work instead of doing a job to get women included in working life is completely wrong integration policy. But I believe that we also need to discuss the transitional benefit, because the transitional benefit is an important benefit. The transitional benefit is support for single dependants, especially women, who need to move on to work after a divorce or because they have had a child and are alone. The transitional benefit works in such a way that in Norway we have far fewer lonely dependants who are poorer than in the rest of the Western countries of Europe, to which we compare ourselves. The transitional benefit also provides security for women who are in a difficult economic position, so that they can separate and perhaps get away from a man who is violent and who does not behave properly, with which there are no good reasons to be with. But then it also has some negative sides. We see today that women who walk with transitional benefits over a long period of time are often excluded from working life and come in too little, even if those who receive support for education and participate in education are very much included. We have to look at the negative sides of the transitional benefit. One of the things that's very clear is that if you're in a situation where you've had a child, but you haven't earned your birth grant rights, the only way you can get money for living is to actually get transitional benefit by separating you -- at least on paper, but by separating you. That's not a desirable situation. It's clear that we should see if there's any action we can take to make sure that people who need to get money for living while they have maternity leave have alternatives other than transitional benefits. The other thing is the problem is that if you are in a couple relationship and have not earned these rights, you will receive relatively poor support from the Loan Fund for primary education. Then you have nothing. But if you divorce and get transitional benefits, you'll be in a position where you have the opportunity to get funded education in a proper way. We should look at these things. I think it's important that the government does that, and I'm guessing that the Brochmann committee too will address questions related to the precisely transitional benefit. For people who walk for a long time on transitional benefits — usually three years — without having been active — it will also weaken the opportunities for this particular group to join the labour market to a greater extent later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1214	This debate is important to take up in this room, because what has been raised today is a problem that has been very long, without politicians having taken it up. It is a little strange that social security fraud, or schemes that do not work, is allowed to continue for a long, long time without a political debate on the matter. It is also difficult in the matter that is being debated today, to address what really is the problem, because I do not agree with the Council of State when he says that special social problems cannot be cultural. And that's the best way to think about it. When the committee was in Dar-es-Salaam, they said that some places they couldn't pay every 14 days or every month, because the workers wouldn't come to work the next day. Their culture was that they would make money from day to day. There's a lot that can be culturally dependent. Immigrants don't know our society. They don't know how our social security system is supposed to work. We also have social security systems that prove to be easier to abuse than other schemes. Then you should look at those social security schemes. The progress party has already looked at the transitional aid. We've taken the signals from Nav, which says it's not necessary to have a transitional benefit, which is a passive benefit over three years. Keeping people on passive social benefits over three years leads them to go much longer in passivity. This is especially true of those who are talking about here, those who are far from working, those who know bad Norwegian, those who should get out faster. Lonely dependants are not a group of needy, poor mothers who do not manage themselves. Today it's full kindergarten coverage. Today, it's quite common to divorce. I also distanced myself from Heikki Holmås when he said that divorces came from women being ill-treated by men. Lone mothers may have divorced for so many different reasons that it is completely impossible to get into it. People get divorced because they want it themselves, because they want a different life. It's a choice they make. Today, it is not that lone mothers are some poor ones who must live on social security. Passive benefits lead people further away from work, whether they are ill and long out of work, unemployed or put on a social security, which can be a sleeping cushion. Nav believes that activity should be required after a year. There is no reason for them to go home for more than a year because they have children. Governments say he's concerned about results – yes, what results? The results seen so far should be sufficient for changes to take place — major changes. And then what happens when those who have received social security are unwarranted? How deterrent is that? They will still receive money for a living. They're going to lose the transition benefit, but what happens next? And what happens to the Somali men, who have certainly helped encourage the fictitious divorce? They're part of it all, they're co-responsive, accomplices. The one who encourages crime is co-responsible. Here you should look at how this actually works. Maybe it'll have such a deterrent effect to tackle the whole environment. How divorces are practiced is not just about women. It concerns men, and it also concerns the religious leaders. What is happening now is keeping families in poverty much longer than necessary by keeping them in various passive social welfare schemes. They're kept on an introductional basis. They're kept on transitional welfare. So they like to go over to qualifying aid. Every time they report. Then they go to work clearance. And then they move on to unpaid pay, even though these are healthy, fast and up-and-coming people, who, with the right introduction to Norwegian society, would work on the same line as everyone else. This is the misuse of human resources and the lack of respect for people who have many unused resources. These are not poor people, they're resource-intensive people who haven't been able to use their resources. In this respect, we should consider both passive performances and how to prevent the performances we have, which are meant to be an important safety net for those who cannot cope. due to illness, being abused. In order for us to be able to maintain that network, we need to remove security mechanisms that are aggravating healthy people. Social security fraud must be detected and must have consequences. It must not develop as much as it has done in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1237	Let me first thank you for the debate. I think it has been a good and factual debate. These issues require both factuality and good approaches in order to move forward. Let me also make it clear that I don't think there are any of us who want to weaken the welfare offer. Norway is known for having robust welfare systems, welfare schemes we are proud of in many ways, and we may also want to improve in some areas. But then it is always the case that we should look at whether the welfare systems we have are working optimally in relation to what was intended, or whether they stimulate abuse. In a number of cases, both in the Dagsrevyen, in the VG and in other media, it has been found that there is a significant abuse. It has also revealed the Nav control. And as you said for approx. two years ago: you can now just see the top of the iceberg. It might give us a picture of the extent of the overall abuse. Then I'm not talking about a particular group, but about the overall abuse. I think we all agree that we need to make sure that people qualify to participate in the world of work. And we have different methods – which we would like to have debated for hours on end – and measures to get more people into the labour market. Then there are a few things that I was quite specific to, that the Council of State has failed to answer, and that I hope he can be precise in his closing post. This applies to the following: we know – it is documented – that many live under false identity. They are based on schemes from both Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom at the same time. Are you willing to use fingerprints as a mechanism to prevent you from operating with a false identity — yes or no? We see that Nav is picking up from the People's Register information about whether you're divorced or not. After taking a divorce abroad, it turns out that you can't trust the Folkeregister in Norway blindly. Are you willing to look at the possibilities of providing other evidence of that divorce in order to be entitled to the right arrangements? That's exactly what's at the heart of the problem. It is precisely this that is also at the heart of what the Norwegian Somali environment points to, at least when they are in contact with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1250	First of all, I would like to stress that when it comes to social security fraud, our approach is that Nav and the police have an important social responsibility to expose social security. Fortunately, on both sides we can report that we see better results. With regard to the future of the transition aid, there will be a central issue in the debate, I think, after the Brochmann Committee has put forward its position. It would be natural for the government to return to Stortinget then with proposals related to the device of it. The question of fingerprints must also be discussed in that debate. But it's more natural that the state councils that are specifically responsible for that area respond to it than I do. So I would like to warn you a little bit about a thinking that has emerged in several of the contributions of the Progress Party, namely that we are going to put much of the dialogue around these issues into religious bodies or, for example, into religious bodies. require evidence from religious processes regarding marriage or divorce. It is very good to say about the dialogue with different religious environments, but we have to be careful in integration policy to give religious leaders the authority to talk on behalf of whole groups or to engage the integration dialogue with religious leaders. It will help to give an authority to some religious environments that we don't necessarily want. At the same time, it is worth noting that there is both a great religious diversity among immigrants in Norway and that there are many immigrants who have no particular religious affiliation. The representative Robstad was in an interesting comparison with the United States, which shows that there is nothing in Somali culture that makes them unable to succeed in the world of work, either here or in the United States. We have to remember that different groups have emigrated from Somalia at different times, so we have to be a little bit careful with drawing parallels. But it is important to stress, I think, that we have a social system in Norway that is well suited for integration. Unlike the United States, where large numbers of immigrants enter the role of poorly paid labour, we do many of those tasks in common in Norway. It prevents large class distinctions. It provides a better starting point for the lives of newcomers in Norway. But then we have to do a big job to qualify them, and the introduction program is our main tool here. I would like to thank you for a good debate – thank you interpellant for raising this issue. The main line of the government's integration policy is determined. Introduction programme, Norwegian education rights and obligations, New chance, free core time in kindergarten – these measures work. We need to strengthen and further develop them to ensure that we get even better results in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1263	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1277	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1286	The acquisition process of a new generation of rescue helicopters has progressed a step further. Initially, I would like to point out that there has been a time-consuming start-up process. Based on the position of the Fostervoll Committee, which was issued just before Christmas in 1996, and which created great optimism among all the actors involved in the rescue services, the time has passed and the years have passed. Various governments have until now pushed the matter ahead. This is now history. Now it's being traded, and now the process is on the rails. I would like to express my understanding that both the operators of today's rescue helicopters, individuals and organisations involved in a good emergency response have been impatient. This impatience also has its roots in over-optimistic leadership in St.meld. No 44 for 2000–2001 on the rescue helicopter service in the future. The majority stated in 2002 that the new helicopters should be replaced already in the period 2005–08. This was too optimistic. Now we have a much more realistic timetable to deal with, and it has to be kept. When this is said, I would say that under this government there has also been a significant boost to improve preparedness, by the fact that all six rescue helicopters now have the attendants with a doctor. From the past, this scheme was only implemented at the rescue base of the Sola. This provides greater security, and it provides greater security for the population. What this matter is about is that pending the introduction of the new helicopters, increased means of maintenance will be needed. Spare part prices are also likely to increase. Furthermore, the creation of the Florø base in 2009 and an overall increase in mission volumes within rescue will mean that only enough Sea King rescue helicopters are available to maintain just the readiness of the six bases. The Sea King and the 330 Quadron also belong to the resources used by the Defence Agency when requested by the police in special cases. In order to maintain this capacity, it is necessary for the helicopters and the 330-square to carry out training for such missions and to participate regularly in cooperation with the police. If the life-helicopters are to be used in such drills without going beyond the life-raft, it is necessary to hire civil operators to maintain the standby of the rescue helicopters during the drills. There will be a need to lease in such capacity for up to 40 days, and this will be a new but necessary cost. It is therefore proposed that the Stortinget grant 14 million. to cover those costs and to hire a civil operator. Against this background, it is proposed to raise the cap. 455 Rescue, item 1 Operating expenses, with 14 million. kr in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1301	We have a good rescue service in Norway, a rescue service that is professional, with good equipment and good people. In the case of rescue helicopters, they have been shown to be good for several years. This also applies to the equipment. The Sea King has done his job in a fine way. The challenge we have now is that the Sea King fleet is getting old and partly out of order. As the President of the Court pointed out, many have been uneasy and impatient after a new helicopter fleet, and there are still many who are uneasy and impatient, despite the fact that the process has started well, as the rapporteur said. What they're worried about is what kind of helicopters are going to be purchased, and how these are going to be compared to preparedness. As the rapporteur also pointed out, all the bases are now day-to-day. It provides greater security, even though that security may sometimes be false, as we know that half of the helicopters are on the ground at any time because of maintenance. Now that the Sea King helicopters are going to be part of drills, it's further weakening readiness. Helicopters are removed in approx. Forty days to participate in anti-terrorism exercises, which also the Progress Party agrees that we should have, but nevertheless: there will be a great weakening of preparedness. Even though we then get civil operators to join in and take over part of the preparedness, these aren't all good at the same level as the Sea King and the professional crews we have there. Of course, the Progress Party agrees that we should allocate $14 million. Extra NOK, so we get to lease in these civil operators. What we're more sceptical about is the future operation of the helicopter service, the rescue service, where the new rescue helicopters will also be involved and used in such missions. These helicopters provide credibility and security against performing rescue operations such as: in the northern areas, bordering on a not very small country, namely Russia. Given the relationship we have with Russia and the renewed respect of the rescue services in the northern regions, the Progress Party is concerned that if we are to start using helicopters that are also to be used in armed missions, the confidence of the rescue services may be somewhat impaired in the northern areas. It's clear that it can be economically beneficial that we have a service that can be coordinated, but it will also create some challenges that will make it possible for us to get a rescue service that lacks trust. Rather, we had seen that we had had our own anti-terrorism preparedness within the police who could be involved and make this preparedness for terrorism better and more visible, rather than using rescue helicopters for that task. We also fear that rescue helicopters equipped to engage in anti-terrorist operations could be compromised by preparedness, both in terms of capacity and in terms of distance from which these helicopters can be used. So we're skeptical of such coordination, and we hope, when the new helicopters are to be purchased, that such consideration is taken into account, and that these rescue helicopters are taken into account for the primary purpose of being rescue helicopters and not being part of a cooperation with other agencies, which weakens the preparedness of these helicopters. As the rapporteur was in the Chamber, we have a good helicopter service. We have a process in progress. But there is a great deal of concern. I hope that the Council of State will take that concern further into the process of acquiring new helicopters. Then we're going to hope that the preparedness as it gets through the civil operators that are being deployed and are going to help relieve the preparedness in South Norway while the exercises are going on will be good, and that the operators do a good job – which I don't doubt, they do at least a good job on the basis of the assumptions they have. But if it's a good job, I'm more in doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1324	The right supports the proposal to grant 14 million. Extra kroner for the rescue service. This is important in order to maintain the emergency response, while, in the Right's view, also making the practical problems that capacity restrictions in the rescue services have caused by the fact that we have Sea King helicopters that we can call old and good. In the Right's view, it is gratifying that we are now, as we understand, moving into a new phase in the acquisition of new rescue helicopters. In our opinion, we should have come further, but we are delighted that there is a movement, after all, in the right direction. We assume that the Ministry of Justice also establishes the necessary cooperation with civil operators, to the extent necessary, in order to maintain the preparedness of the phase we are now entering, until we get the new rescue helicopters in place. Right supports the existing co-operation with regard to the use of rescue helicopters for both rescue services and terrorist preparedness, so we are not included in the comment in the setting that is critical to that co-operation. We believe it is important to use resources in the most efficient way possible, and we believe that, at least at this stage, it is not appropriate to establish two different services from the point of view of resource use. On the contrary, we see the need for the capacity we have at all times, and the competence we have at all times is used optimally and as efficiently as possible, and we see that primarily within today's model. We support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1335	As Minister of Justice, I am responsible for both police counter-terrorism preparedness and the rescue helicopter service. I am very pleased with the support and perception that all parties express in this debate as well – best expressed by the representative Ørsal Johansen – about the solid job that the rescue helicopter service actually does for us. In terrorist situations against Norwegian offshore installations on Norwegian continental shelf, it is foreseen that the police can request assistance from the Defence Agency. The Sea King rescue helicopters are currently the only helicopters the Defense employs that have sufficient capacity and can fly longer missions over the sea. These have therefore been used for this preparedness. In recent years, the number of search and rescue operations has increased. 2009 and 2010 were record years for the number of rescue and ambulance missions for the rescue helicopters, with 1 501 and 1452 missions respectively. That's 40 pst. mission applications from 2005 and it shows that rescue helicopters have a very important role to play in the country’s rescue service. However, as others have pointed out, it is known that the Sea King rescue helicopters are very old – almost 40 years old – and very maintenance demanding. In 2010, on average, only 6.4 flightable helicopters of a fleet of a total of 12 were available. The remainder was on the ground due to different types of maintenance. We need to be informed that the maintenance situation on the rescue helicopters is very challenging for us. The flight pattern used during counter-terrorism training exposes the helicopters to a greater impact than other types of task. In recent months, more Sea King has been on more heavy maintenance than was foreseen, and this has gone beyond these months' emergency statistics. Counter-terrorism training with today’s ageing Sea King Park will therefore increase the risk of additional maintenance needs, with the consequence for the rescue preparedness. As a result, it is problematic to take rescue helicopters to practice, but the government has nevertheless found it necessary that the 330-squaredron be involved in co-operation with the police in order to maintain counter-terrorism preparedness. However, it is not desirable to take a rescue helicopter base out of standby, as this may have a significant impact on the rescue gear if no replacement is inserted. That's the whole basis for today's proposition. The Government has therefore decided to facilitate the rental of a civil operator to take over the emergency response at the relevant bases during the relevant periods and therefore asks the Government to strengthen the Ministry of Justice’s cap. 455 The 14-million rescue service. kr. With regard to the new helicopters, it is also decided that today’s multi-use should continue. There I am fully in line with Mr Werp's representative that it is actually also positive from an economic point of view. But I believe that it is also right, based on a tactical need, to continue such co-operation – good use of resources, while at the same time having an incredibly good capacity that can play an important role in co-use. This will also apply to several societal tasks, such as: firefighting, pollution protection, etc., but also the assistance of the Defence Forces to the police. It is true in Norway that when there is a crisis, everyone stands. I would like to hear the debate in Stortinget if there was really going to be a serious incident, and how, for example. the rescue helicopters were equipped in such a way that they could not assist. I would fear that debate and that comment from the Progress Party more than I fear today's special remark. The rescue helicopters will be included as part of the concept of defence assisting in offshore industry actions. In order not to compromise the means of rescue, it has been established that the protective equipment shall be retrofittable and thus not affect the reach and capacity of the helicopters in the context of rescue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1350	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1366	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Mr Dahl, has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Stein Mathisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1377	The increase in statutory rights has been significant. Good will, media press, bigger public budgets and expectations have made us adopt more and more laws to help those who need it the most. But the Storting has partly lost the overview. We are not able to coordinate the financial allocations to implement the laws that we ourselves have adopted. TV 2 has revealed a number of serious and critical issues this spring, which all parties should take seriously. Several of the country’s largest stakeholder organisations believe that the public utility is not working. In a TV 2 survey, all 18 organisations state that the public utility is complex and that there is a public lack of knowledge necessary to provide proper guidance, financial assistance and information. The FFO tells us that a lot of public employees contact, because they do not know the law well enough, do not find out in their own systems and do not know enough about diagnosis. Lawmaking a right is more than a political signal that it is something you might want to give priority to. The use of law must be more binding than that. Most of the laws are passed without an overview of what they involve in the form of directives for, for example: what municipalities have available from funds, you get on wild roads. Thus, the form of law should not be used at all costs, since inflation in practice means, for example, that. local politicians have to make some kind of guessing, and simply choose which types of laws they have to break in order to get the budgets going. And the fact that there is no overview of the compliance with all the rights we have adopted is simply not keeping. It is important to bear in mind that we narrow down local democracy by legislating a right, just as more and more designation of state means it. For lawyers and lawyers, it's probably a nice thing that we're still lawmakers, either with clear or unclear legal texts and processing, but the question is whether our business here at Stortinget is of the good of politics. If the laws are not followed up, they most likely increase the contempt of politicians and public authorities. Overview and knowledge are needed in order to be able to continuously adjust price and effort. We simply need to know the extent of the crimes, which laws are most often broken, and who the victims are. Infringement of statutory rights opens up a number of unresolved issues. Is the supervision working well enough? Does Norway have too many statutory rights? Do you have the economy, competence and means to ensure enforcement and enforcement? What kind of sanction is available in the event of a breach of rights? It is gratifying that almost all the Committee – in almost all areas – supports the description of reality and the intention behind the proposal by the proposers, with the exception of the minority proposal, from the Right and the Advance Party, on a separate matter for the Stortinget by the end of 2011, which I take the opportunity to address when I first stand here. It is supported by an overall committee, with somewhat different wording. I pay particular attention to the observation by the majority of the members of all the Committee's parties, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, that it is appropriate to consider whether the Health Authority and the County Council, which are the relevant supervisory authorities, should be given sanctioning powers, such as: The FFO and the Norwegian Federation of Developmentally Impaired Desires. This will mainly apply to rights under the Social Services Act and the Training Act. Yesterday, the representative Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen said on TV 2 that it is now important to get good sanctions and control equipment – it is obvious that we are not writing such a comment if it is not to be a reality. On behalf of the whole committee, minus the members of the Progress Party, I would say that was well said. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to ask the Council of State in its statement to clarify what kind of assessment he sees can be carried out, and not least when such an assessment can be presented with proposals for any necessary legislative changes, bearing in mind that there is such a broad majority wish to be fulfilled, in an area in which absolutely all parties have had a finger in the game and have to take joint responsibility. I think we owe that to all of those we created hope when we passed different laws, and after some of them have lost faith in us in the meeting with the real enforcement of the laws that we adopted with good will in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1403	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1406	The proposers address an important issue in this proposal for a representative. We have many challenges when it comes to securing the existing statutory rights to people with disabilities and thus to this group's legal security. Several examples of fractures have been repeatedly seen in the media. This group is perhaps the most vulnerable group in our society, and the consequences for those who are affected by the lack of follow-up can be very large. Of course, it is serious if your existing legal rights are not complied with. Even if we are to pursue a policy that ensures the legal security of weak groups, the Labour Party does not believe that a review of statutory rights is the way to go. The important thing here is to make sure that the legal rights are better complied with in the future. A good way to do this is to consider providing supervisory authorities with sanctioning powers, as well as establishing good control mechanisms. Over the last few years, there has been a good record of violation of statutory rights. The Labour Party believes it is now time to implement concrete actions, and not use unnecessary time and resources to obtain already documented needs. When local authorities are given local self-government, while individual rights are granted, it is important that there are control mechanisms that can ensure that the rules are followed, as the Storting has agreed and foreseen. During the Committee's hearing, the JRC, among others, showed that: that the requirements for custom training and special education had a deviation in the level of filling of up to 90 pst. Norwegian Association of Developmentists, NFU, believes that supervision, which is of particular interest to their members, reveals deviations in 80 p.p. of the case. When the deviation becomes so large, and if this is true, a question may be related to the fact that any deviations do not have an impact on the providers. Today, the county has the power to impose mandatory changes to deficiencies that are detected, but as impositions cannot be followed up with sanctions, the county cannot require change. According to Kommunelova § 60 d, the county may impose on the municipalities ‘commitments to rectify conditions that are in conflict’ with the management of the county. But it is only if there is a legal deviation that the county can impose correction of the situation. If less serious conditions are detected, the county may make a comment. Then it is up to the municipality if they want to comply with this remark. There are also examples in areas with sanction authority. For example, the Child Protection Act has provided that supervisory authorities may close a child protection institution which does not comply or is not operated in accordance with the requirements of the law. Supervisory authorities may also authorise municipalities if the child protection service does not comply with the statutory deadlines. The FFO and the NFU have both stated that they believe that it is necessary to give the supervisory authorities sanctioning municipalities that do not comply with the requirements of the Board of Appeal or the Board of Supervisors on matters relating to their members, namely the disabled and the disabled. These are mainly rights arising from the social services law and the training law. The County and Health Authority are thus the most important supervisory bodies in the areas mentioned. In this context, the Government Party would ask for an assessment of the possibility of sanctioning relevant supervisory authorities. In addition, we will prioritise well-being over more money in the wallet of those who already have enough money. In this way, we will ensure that statutory courts are complied with and that society is making sure to take care of the legal security of weak groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1425	In this case, I'm actually going to first be allowed to do something that might be a little unusual for a politician: to boast of the media. I want to boast of TV 2, which has taken hold of all these matters, followed them for a whole year and revealed all these violations of statutory rights. We can use chronological cards for heart disease, Elliot, which is a throw ball in the auxiliary device. The parents of the little boy met closed doors and telephone queues in their desperate desire to get in touch with and help from the public. We also have Olivia in four years, who was in danger of dying when the municipality of Stjørdal refused to help. We also have Lars Arthur in eight years, who had to move 110 miles to another municipality to comply with the statutory rights and get the help he was entitled to. According to the FFO, it has been revealed that parents are being pressured to waive their rights. A tongue root and complicated auxiliaries leave people out to apply for help. Not enough of that, it is also revealed that government employees do not know their own rules well enough. This is particularly true for weaker groups with complex problems, especially children with disabilities. I am therefore pleased that we are having this debate today, after the Progress Party, together with the Right and the Left, has promoted this proposal for a representative in the Stortinget. I am also pleased that the representative of the Workers' Party is so clear that they want to use sanctions for breaches of statutory rights. But my big question is: shall I believe what he said on TV 2 last night, what he repeats on the pulpit here today, or what he has written in the note? The comment does not say what the representative of the Workers' Party says. Let me quote from the note: ‘A second majority, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, also consider whether the Health Authority and the County State, which are the relevant supervisory authorities, should be given sanction authority.’;» There is nothing here about doing so, but that it should be ‘assessed’. Very familiar is also not a remark committed. It was to a much greater extent earlier. There is an opinion that has been made on a paper, which the Minister of Justice – who now left the Chamber, and I hope it was not because of my post – can take with him and put in his drawer and do nothing with it. If that happens, it's probably a breach of promise from this hall – a little bit of a break – and I'm afraid that could be the case. I hope you can clarify this. If this is the case, as Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen also said, the Workers' Party wants to take action to ensure legal certainty, why in the world there is no mention of the proposal that the Right and the Advance Party have promoted, that they want a complete review of these breaches. How are you supposed to be able to punish something you don't know? is my question back to the Workers' Party. Once again, the most vulnerable — young people who are chronically ill, young people with severe disabilities — are the victims because they do not want to have a full review. It disappoints me. I thought and hoped that such a proposal was so harmless in this room that we could get a total increase to support the proposal, so that one could go chronologically through what rights we have. The rapporteur began by saying that there is not a complete overview of all statutory rights. Then this room should be presented with a case in which all the statutory rights were presented, and not least what rights are often broken. I hope that the debate can lead to the Workers' Party and the Government's parties turning around and supporting the proposal at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1443	We have a special responsibility for people who, for various reasons, need help from society to have equal opportunities in society. That is why we introduce rights legislation. This is what safeguards our fundamental well-being. It is fundamental to a good community, fundamental to the welfare state. Let me be quite clear: when the choice is between enforcing a statutory right and something that is not legally attached, there should be no question of what priority is given. Municipal self-government is important, and it gives great freedom to organize as you like. However, we have chosen to put some fundamental rights at the bottom. It is a uncompromising defence that everyone should be sure to be cared for on the day of the need for help. It is about the right to social assistance, the right to support, the right to assistance and the right to other basic services. Some are state-owned, such as disability and sick pay, some are municipal, such as support contacts and care pay. These municipal services have been given priority by the Stortinget. It is therefore an overall judicial committee now emphasises that the rights come first, and that is why the Committee stresses that we will provide for sanctions if the law is not complied with. SV is a strong champion of the welfare state. It's precisely because it's socially equal, it's going to give equal opportunities to everyone. Then people have to be able to figure out the rights, and they have to get the services they need. It's fundamentally fair, and it's a prerequisite for ensuring well-being. The agreement reached by the Judicial Committee commits. The majority of the Committee says: ‘When municipal autonomy has been granted to municipalities while individual citizens are granted rights, it is important that control mechanisms and appeal mechanisms are in place to ensure and ensure compliance with the rules, as adopted by the Stortinget.’ SV will be the leading driver to ensure that the clear instructions of the majority of the population are followed up, and expects the government to continue to assess the need for stronger complaint procedures and tougher penalties. It's our responsibility as elected representatives to provide equal opportunities. We're always going to use our positions for the benefit of people and for the benefit of those who especially need the community to set up. I would like to thank you for this debate, and thank you for the great job they have done in revealing serious violations of clear rights. There is a clear message coming from Stortinget today. It shall be followed up. Now I see that I have some speaking time left, which I would like to use to give the previous speeches and his party a visit. It is very good and affordable to be very concerned with fundamental rights and even more, and that those who are there are followed up. But the community is also a jointly funded project, where we contribute according to our ability and take out as needed. Someone has to pay for these rights that we all want people to have. So the question is, who is going to pay if the policy of the Progress Party is going to be implemented to the point? Then the community lacks billions of dollars each year. Then we can't afford to provide support contact, so we can't afford to promise the rights we have. Only in Oslo, for example. removed the property tax from the Progress Party six to seven years ago. It gave away 2.5 billion at the time. in the tax fund that could be used in schools, support contacts, taxi systems and many other rights that very many people need. So the accounts are unbalanced with respect to the Progress Party. We appreciate that they're occupied with the rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1472	The welfare state and the local welfare of municipalities are an important and difficult issue. "To the layer for all can't do," it's called, but we in the Red-Green government have wanted, and we also want to, to make the most of those who need it into layers. This is achieved by providing the municipalities with more money, and also by legislating rights to the most vulnerable and helpful groups in society. Statutory justice brings some dilemmas in relation to local democracy and the ability of local politicians to make priorities based on local needs and resources. We want the people's government to say that both central and local elected representatives must have room for action. At the same time, there is no doubt that legal courts are desirable and important for those who need help in everyday life and for their relatives. There's a security in this that makes breathing easier. That is why the theme we are debating today is important. When dishes are drawn in the form of a law, it must mean something in practice. One has to know that one gets what it needs, and the system has to catch it if it doesn't. The Committee agrees when the Joint Organisation of Disabilities points to the need for monitoring and ensuring that municipalities do what they are required by law. We need a control system that works, and follow-up must be done when the control system detects a failure of the services. But then it also boils down to what municipalities have to walk with. The centre party is very concerned that municipalities should have financial room for action to provide the citizens with the necessary services. Ideally, we want a great deal of local freedom for the municipalities in how they choose to organise and perform the services. Legal courts are, in our opinion, something we should resort to in a special case, but when this is first done, it is obvious that we must ensure that people get what they have legal claims for. Our welfare state is based on good dynamics between the public system and a lack of and strong business that pays taxes that finance the public good. That's how the welfare services hang with us all with what we do in many policy areas. If we engage in transport, we will facilitate the use of Norwegian natural resources and for a thriving business throughout the country. If we go to school, we build a future with good people who can fill many important jobs both in public and in private. This is the policy of the majority of the population, the counties and the municipalities, essential to make it possible to offer basic important services and to comply with statutory dishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1489	The stories that TV 2 has told affect most of us. In particular, we are affected by the stories of vulnerable and vulnerable people, such as sick and disabled children. They have a daily life that is demanding enough if their parents are not to fight for the services and measures they are entitled to. The Christian People's Party therefore welcomes and supports the proposal that is under consideration here today, that by the end of 2011, the government submits a case to the Stortinget on the violation of statutory rights. The 2009 consultation note from the Ministry of Health and Welfare on the guarantee of dignity states: ‘The build-up of justice and the requirement for user involvement have continued to develop in the healthcare sector. Developments have ranged from considering the user as a passive recipient of services to facilitating the user to be an active contributor to health and social services. These developments provide less room for standardised solutions. Greater demands are made on municipalities to organise their services for individual solutions according to the basic needs of the individual.» This is a development Christian People's Party wants. It is essential that municipalities organise their services better and build up knowledge of how to fulfil their rights. There is also a need for measures to enable vulnerable groups to be assisted in the complaint of a breach of their rights, including: by making patient and user representatives more accessible. The Christian People's Party has, among other things: asked the Minister of Health and Health if she would establish a free telephone service for the elderly who are experiencing a breach of the guarantee of dignity – a telephone number of the individual himself or family member may call to help with complaints about decisions or lack of services. The Minister of Health and Welfare does not want to introduce such an available service, and it is disappointing. The representative, Eriksson, made a very good contribution. Similarly, looking up how parents fight to get the rights they need has frustrated me and the Christian People's Party. In the case of cases, for example: care allowance or care allowance, where one has seen that this government has made it much more difficult for parents who want to take care of their own children, it upsets me to hear the stories about how their everyday life is. One example: a mother who is a physiotherapist, had one wish, and it was to be able to be at home with the child and train it, so that the child could have the most active life possible. She did not receive a care allowance – she did not receive support to be at home. The result was that she had to go to work, and a lot of people were hired to do the same job, to give the same training that the little boy could have got from just the mother. So it became much more expensive for society, and it became much worse for the family that wanted to be home to improve the everyday life of the little boy. This is one example, and there are many examples. Therefore, I just want to say that it is great that TV 2 has been running such a long campaign where they have revealed the case on a case-by-case basis so that we can just deal with a matter like this and ensure that the people who have legal rights, but who do not get them, get them. Therefore, the Christian People's Party also has great expectations of what has been said both yesterday and today, that it should be followed up by the government. The Christian People's Party agrees that it is necessary to consider whether sanctions should be given to the county and to the health authorities, as the majority of them write in the comments. Finally, I would just like to repeat that the Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1513	The President has registered that aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1516	First of all, I would like to say that this is a very important debate, and there is reason to thank both proposers and other activists, including the media, who have contributed to putting it on the agenda. In addition to the concrete proposal, I would say that this goes straight into what will be at the heart of many of the welfare challenges and the political challenges we face. And, not least, as a follow-up to much of the work behind the power investigation, this debate is very much about how we organise the welfare and the issue of the relationship between lawmaking and politics. The Norwegian welfare society is characterised by the establishment of a number of mechanisms whereby citizens have access to community benefits or services. Many of these schemes are established by law or law and some are designed to give citizens legal rights to the State or municipality. There are sliding transitions both in terms of the content of the rights and whether it is actually a right, in my opinion. At the same time, the welfare society involves obligations for citizens, including: that those who are capable of doing so must contribute to the financing of the fissile layer of the welfare state. The scope of statutory welfare rights and the way in which rights are designed in the law varies between different administrative areas, which, in my view, makes it quite inappropriate to have a comprehensive analysis of this field. In some cases, the law gives precisely defined rights. Other rights provisions are designed in such a way that the level of benefits depends on discretionary considerations, often left to the management's so-called free judgement. In such cases, however, citizens may be required to comply with a minimum standard of performance. Therefore, it is difficult to compare one right to another right. The establishment of welfare goods and questions of how to design a right offer complex policy assessments. It is often easy to point out good arguments for public service to citizens in a given situation. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that the establishment of rights involves the allocation of limited resources — yes, those not covered by rights will have to be weaker than those actually protected by a right. A too detailed regulation of citizens' welfare rights will limit the political and administrative possibilities to make the necessary priorities, and I also note that most speakers before me have been involved. This is, and must still be, an overall political responsibility which must lie with central and local elected bodies. The legalisation of detailed welfare rights may contribute to the redefinition of issues of distribution which are initially to be answered by policy considerations into questions of legal rights, which may in turn be brought before the courts. In addition, such legal proceedings are binding on the budget freedom of the Grand Duchy. It also connects users who do not have the money, do not have the skills or do not want to go to the courts with their case. In my view, it would not be appropriate to have a common case and a joint inquiry, as the proposal for a representative is based on. Rights control must be achieved through the general work of the part of the administration working on it, where there is also a lot of power, and the quality assurance arrangements that exist. A common case will not necessarily strengthen the arrangements, but could, rather, involve a resource-intensive mix of equal and unequal, for which there will be considerable uncertainty about the value of the benefits. This does not mean that one does not agree that one should have good control and good opportunity to see to what extent one complies with the rights regimes. In my view, it has to be from sector to sector and from one level of society to another level of society that had to exercise these rights. Everyone shall be able to participate in the welfare society. A strong public sector is a prerequisite for balancing and equivalent conditions for all. In its policy platform, the government has been clearly committed to improving, strengthening and renewing public welfare systems. Only robust public solutions can over time be an alternative to the privatisation of well-being. The key mechanisms to ensure that citizens receive what they are to do are a competent and ethically conscious administration, good internal control, access to review procedures, other supervisory arrangements, the function of the Ombudsman and access to justice. Of course, we listen and read what the Committee now writes about what they want, towards an assessment of possible sanctions. I would like to take that up with the respective state councils in the fields mentioned, as well as in other relevant fields, in order to assess this in addition to the sanctions that had already been imposed in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1535	I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on what he concluded with, namely the remark that we have heard that two of his colleagues in the government parties, namely from SV and his own party, the Workers' Party, have stated as a clear instruction. Then the Council of State concluded its statement that he would consider this in more detail. What does the Council of State put in such an assessment? Does that mean that the Council of State will come back to the Storting with proposals for sanctions? What means of sanctions can we expect the Council of State to implement? Does he have any ideas about sanctions? And when can we expect such a case to come – that is, when can we expect the sanctions to be applied to the municipalities that violate statutory rights? Can we expect that to happen during 2012, or will this be put in a drawer, so that you can only assess yourself in half?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1542	Now, the majority comment is such that it asks us to assess the sanctioning instrument. Of course, we've said that we're open to do. In fact, in line with the demand for a comprehensive investigation into the functioning of rights, I believe that it will be more effective if those responsible for this, whether in the Ministry of Health or in the Minister of Renewal, take that assessment, but at the end of the day the government is over it. It is, of course, too early for me now to anticipate what such an assessment would be about. In my opinion, it would be to set aside the committee's comment. Then I want to say that the most important penalty we face is the breach of that e.g. Drug users do not get the necessary health care here in Oslo, and that older people do not get to live alone in the rooms here in Oslo, of course is to replace the politicians who have decided that it should be that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1549	I hope that the same sanctions will also be applied in 2013 when there are majorities, so that people can be replaced in the government quarter. The Council of State also states in its statement that this is in many ways a cross-departmental problem, that it goes over several departments. He believes it is inappropriate to carry out a complete review and come to Stortinget with it, because it just affects a lot. For my part, I think it would have been much more sensible, because today's system is very fragmented. It's precisely because of the fragmented system that no one has overall responsibility, that people get lost in the welfare system, that they don't get the help they need, that they don't get the follow-up they should have, and that employees also say is hard to enforce and get an overview of. Does the Council of State and the Government have a complete overview of the statutory rights? If you have it, why can't you put it in front of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1556	It's like me, for example. is responsible for the country's prisoners being given the rights they will have in prison. I believe that I am the closest person to be able to assess the question of whether they actually get these rights. I also believe that it is the task of this Chamber of Justice – and to the extent that of others – to confront the responsible Council of State with the question. It is my opinion that when it comes to assessing not only penalties, but also assessing to what extent the rights are being respected, that we get the best to – and do it the most for the person responsible – by making it a task for the person who is sitting on this. That's why I think a so-called comprehensive review might be more involved in removing the focus from what we want to focus on, which I think we all agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1561	Yesterday, the representative, Opbebøen Hansen, said to TV 2 that it is obvious that you do not write such a comment for no reason. Today, SV has been very clear, like the Right. So there's a majority in this room that's clear that you have to get sanctions. So they interpret the comment as expanding and not as restrictive as the Council of State does. Is it so to understand that the Council of State will not take the initiative to coordinate the work at all, just leave it to each department? And what is it about such a procedure, with the fragmentation of responsibility and the lack of holistic thinking, that makes the situation better than what TV 2 has shown for a long, long time? When will matters be presented, so that this room, which has to adopt the necessary legislative changes, is given the opportunity to do so, so that the situation actually gets better, that there are not just empty words from some of the big parties here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1566	I am aware that the eagerness to take action in this matter is great from the opposition parties, and especially when the media has turned their cameras on. It's like that. That's often the background that we get the rights fixation as well. It is believed that the adoption of a law is an important step for groups in need of welfare assistance, and in many cases it is seen to be of no use. What is my concern is that when the Storting asks the government to make an assessment of the issue of penalties, I think it would be completely wrong – on the day this case is dealt with in the Storting – to conclude, and to say whether there is a need for sanctions, where there is a need for sanctions, and when this will happen. It seems that I would not be taking the Storting seriously. I will, as I said in my post, take this up with the state councils concerned by this matter, so that we in appropriate form will come back to Stortinget with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1573	I think that the desire for media search lights is equally distributed between opposition parties and individual state councils, but I'm going to leave it. The question here is how to plan a process. I take it for granted that the government is constantly discussing this kind of thing, that you don't just sit and distribute out of constitutional responsibility and don't coordinate. So my questions to the Council of State are again: is that how you're going, is it going to coordinate this work in any way to get the most comprehensive overview that we're totally missing today? Is it such that there is a work going on coordinating this, and when will you possibly be able to see at least one or two cases in some of the sectors that are very clear and clear, and that have also been known before TV 2 started digging in them?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1580	To the question of coordination: it is that every expert council acts in a government, so most matters are coordinated in the sense that one does not operate freely. So the government will be behind the decisions that have to be made. But here we have been asked – and I think it makes sense – to make an assessment around the sanctions side. We know that there are penalties. I understand that some people want sanctions in some areas. But, as I said, it's too early for me now to conclude on what the government will do on this issue. I'm asking you to respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1585	It is with some disappointment that I note that my suspicions about this comment that has been given headlines do not have a real background. We saw in the media yesterday that the representative Oppebøen Hansen was out and said that now there was going to be sanctions, it should just be missing. I have heard this in the Chamber today also from the representative Upbeøen Hansen and the representative Chaudhry – now there should be penalties. So now we're confirmed by the Council of State that this remark doesn't mean anything, because now everything has to be left to the government, and it has to be assessed at different levels within the apparatus of power, as the Minister of Justice says. The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right is only a desire to involve the Storting in order to obtain sufficient skills and input to ensure effective measures to ensure legal certainty and rights. Then my question is: when the government has gradually assessed this, can the Council of State at some point consider submitting a case on its own initiative to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1592	I'm not acting alone, and especially not in matters that are relevant to other expert councils. I'm asking for respect for it. So I think, I just have to admit, this case is particularly important, because I think it will show us in the long term that right fixing is not always the answer. It is the political responsibility that needs to be modelled, and we already have the most important penalty today, and it is the choice of politicians both locally and centrally. That's the most important penalty. But I clearly read the comment in a different way than the representative Sandberg. I do not understand that it is an instruction on what kind of conclusion to reach with these assessments, but that this review and assessment should be carried out. I again ask for respect for my view that this is a natural question first to discuss with my government colleagues who have special professional responsibility in this area, and then we get back to Stortinget in an appropriate form.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1600	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1605	I just want to remind the Council of State that the one responsible for the treatment of drug addicts in Oslo is his colleague, Minister of Health Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen. It will be a great pleasure to use the sanction option in 2013 and replace it. What this case is about, however, is a clear evidence that very many of the rights that the Storting has acquired over time – i.e. by a changing political majority — adopted, to a very large extent in many areas not followed up by those responsible for follow-up. It is a situation which, fortunately, a unanimous collapse through this setting gives notice that it is not fair, and that this is not the intention of Storting. It is pointed out that in terms of the financial framework, it is very strict and strong governance, but in terms of legal rights, it is not the same focus on follow-up and governance. I will initially choose to interpret this attitude positively in view of the fact that a majority actually asks the government to consider imposing sanctions. But that, of course, assumes that the government will come back with matters related to it. However, I was very concerned when I heard the Council's response, because the Council of State stresses the importance of the problem, namely the fragmented state. When the Council of State places so much emphasis on the fragmented state, it is really as he is at the heart of what is the whole problem, because for the users of these services, the fragmented state is a problem, and not least for the municipalities, the fragmented state is a problem. Because the municipalities have to see the whole thing. The problem for the municipalities is that the sum of all the statutory rights adopted by the Storting over time does not go up at all. That is why many advisers and rapporteurs say that they have to choose which laws to break when designing the services of the municipality. It is precisely what the government and the Storting should agree that there was a need for a comprehensive overview of these rights, so that the Storting could go through and see what rights we have established that we will strengthen and maintain, possibly liquidate. For example, the Storting has introduced a right for all schoolchildren to have fruit and vegetables in school, but the Stortinget is not interested in introducing a right for all disabled people to a user-controlled personal assistant.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1614	I think the Council of State had a very good speech – a very good speech with good and strong arguments to vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right. Because it is based on the arguments put forward by the Council of State itself, you can see how complicated it has been to have an overview of what rights have been introduced. Of course, it is not that an hour's debate here in Stortinget is able to solve this, or to put in place measures or proposals, because we are not going to be sure enough, anyway. This majority comment is at least not accurate when the Council of State itself admits that it is not perceived as an instruction by the majority. Had this comment been in place in 1997, when the undersigned entered the Stortinget, there would have been an instruction. But majority comments have changed. The council itself says that there are major challenges, and I fully agree. It is difficult today to see whether we organise well-being properly. I'm once again completely in line with the Council when he says that we see the problems now, but that this will become even more complicated in the future. That is why this proposal is being promoted. If the Right and Advance Party had had the fasit today, we would also have made concrete proposals. That's why we are now asking for a broader review from all the departments, so that we in Stortinget get a much better basis for taking action aimed at what we want to do about, that we simply get a review of the wide variety of rights that have been granted and that the representative Höie was also in, sort a little bit. Some may be decommissioned, some may need to be strengthened. Maybe there will be new rights too – at least I don't ignore the fact that there may be demands for it in the future. This is simply a common matter to clear up a little bit in the closet. The progress party may look a little high, because we believe here that we have proposals that can solve this in the future. One has to be much more willing to look at the administrative structure in such a way. I don't think 430 municipalities will make it easier in the future to strengthen the rights – or with the county council and county council and all the confusion and disclaimer we have about the administration. But what is even more important, I think, is something the funding model of the Progress Party points to. If we do manage to put in place and connect the funding directly to the right, we also solve a lot of the breaches that exist and that have been detected through a large media review.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1625	The left is a co-proposal on this matter, but we probably have a slightly different approach than the ones we proposed with. That's why I need to clarify it. I very much agree with what the Council of State said about what the power investigation showed, namely that a transition to a purely rights democracy is not only a threat to democracy but also a threat to social cohesion. Some time ago, I was at the FFO, which had a help phone where people could call in and ask about their rights. The deciduous largest ringing group was parents with disabled children. So it was not any of those who called, who had mental distress. That means that you have the resources to find out in a rights system, and you'll probably get a lot more cashed out of your rights than if you're poor in resources and can't fix your life. This is a dilemma. That means that from this pulpit we should be very precise about what rights we grant, and that there are rights we can actually deliver. That's why the Left is behind the proposal, and that's why we want to vote for it today. We want to get a review into society of what rights we have actually given, and who we are able to maintain, and also that we are getting a balance, so there are not so many rights that it is just for the resources of society. Because there are some people who think that our democracy could be such that we created a bunch of rights with what you're allowed to do, and then get a personal number and a lawyer at the beginning of life, and then it's just cashing in. That's not how a democracy works. Democracy creates good solutions around people. I remember standing in Groruddalen once. Then an old lady came to me and said, "Now I finally got a diagnosis." Isn't it nice to get a diagnosis, I said. Well, when you get a diagnosis, you get a lot of rights, she answered, but no one gives me the things I want – right now my time is packed with aids, but no one comes and helps with it an old lady wants help, namely, to wash the windows. It's about a rights society, where you just create some template to suit everyone, while you don't in dialogue between citizens find the good solutions for each one. I have faith in dialogue, in local democracy and the dialogue with the individual citizen, and in helping those who fall outside. You don't always do that with rights legislation. In fact, it is also done with a well-functioning local democracy, with the power near them. But that is why we want to vote in favour of the proposal. We want that review to see if we're at the right level in terms of rights, and if we're actually giving people the opportunity to provide a good care offer, also locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1638	Let me comment on two, maybe three things, too, but at least start with two things that the Council of State was in on, and that also applied to the contribution to the Supreme Prayer Hansen. I can also take it now when I see that he has signed up – then he gets the opportunity to answer it. I felt that the representative Upbeøen Hansen was relatively tall and dark when he appeared on TV 2 yesterday, but that this was a clear “instruction” – which was also the same words that SV’s representative used from this pulpit. A clear instruction had now been given in Stortinget to the Council of State and the Government. Then I feel that the Council of State's answer is quite confusing – as also the representative Sandberg was in it – namely that the Council of State says that he does not see this as an instruction, but of course you will come back in a «appropriate» way when the time permits it. Yes, that means, as I interpret it and assess it, that this matter has not come much further after today's debate. We have to go new rounds in Stortinget, fight new battles for the obvious rights of the most weak in this society. I am willing to take that fight, I am willing to go those rounds, but I should have liked you to have been more effective from the government parties as well, not only when the TV lights are turned on, but also when we are dealing with the matter in this room. Then it's quite right what the representative Sandberg was into, which is also an answer to the representative Chaudhry: Yes, the Progress Party has wanted to solve the financing of these statutory rights very simply, precisely by linking funding to the individual right. The problem today is that in many areas the municipalities that have to manage this do not have the money to do so, and cut out to give help, on the grounds that the municipal fund is empty. That's the big dilemma. Then you can talk about local self-government very well and far, but it proves that in these matters it doesn't work optimally, and not in a good enough way. I also believe, as several representatives have said, that a complete review is important from the perspective of the representative, Trine Skei Grande, in order to find out: what rights do we have? How do these rights work? What rights do we want to be in the future? And how are we going to be able to target these rights on such a track that those who need them are guaranteed to get them? That's what's important, because, in my opinion, it's completely meaningless that people almost have to become well-being refugees in this country in order to meet their legitimate requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1651	People who need help say that the auxiliaries are unwieldy and uncoordinated in relation to the legislation and its enforcement. People who work to provide help to those who need it say that it is all inconspicuous and little concrete in relation to the enforcement of the legislation. People who are elected and sitting on the Stortinget say that the auxiliaries are unwieldy and uncoordinated in relation to the legislation and its enforcement. Media, who has been working on these matters for a long time, says that the auxiliaries are unwieldy and uncoordinated in relation to the legislation and its enforcement. I partly understand that the Council of State will not be too specific on how to follow up the request of the Storting, but I perceive it as a crystal clear instruction to carry out a work, not least on the basis of opinions in the media and here in the Chamber today from representatives of the Workers' Party and SV respectively, who have thus received the Right-wing support of the Committee. It is, therefore, that absolutely everyone perceives that it is all unwieldy and difficult to grasp – people, media, politicians and those who work with it. So I have a creeping suspicion that the government also thinks that the auxiliary equipment is unwieldy and little coordinated with the legislation and enforcement of it. So I hope, despite the statements that have been made today, that the ‘appropriate’ way by the Council of State and the Government is to present a separate case of breach of statutory rights at a time that is not too long after 2011, even if it is therefore voted down today. I think, finally, that the representative Trine Skei Grande had very good points. If we are to be able to get back at all to a situation where this big business has better control over the use of law as an instrument, we just need such an overall case. We need it to regain control and perhaps not make the same mistakes once more, making more people uncertain, creating even more intransigence and lack of regulatory handling. I wish we could have such a discussion in Stortinget on a real case-by-case basis, with concrete proposals for legislative changes. It's actually absolutely necessary, because society is not going to be less complicated in the future, rather on the contrary, and we're going to be most likely – everyone sitting in this room – to adopt many new laws without necessarily being too well thought out forever. And then even more people need help, in an even bigger hurry than what we've seen TV 2 has revealed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1664	I think this debate today has developed a little strange. It is said that I will have spoken to TV 2 and that I have said in today's debate that there will be sanctions. It is completely wrong; I can document that through the references from Stortinget today. What I said was that in this context, the government party will ask for an assessment – and I stress – of providing relevant supervisory authorities with ‘punishment facilities’. As I see it, the Council of State has said, yes, the government will take it seriously. The Council of State has taken the note correctly. Rather, let us rejoice that the Council of State and the Government are attending to the point that is so important to all of us: getting a proper assessment and a proper review of whether it is possible to use sanctions through the supervisory bodies. I feel in many ways that we have come a long way through today's suspension and today's debate. The size will get a real answer. That has been confirmed by the Council of State. Let's enjoy it. Then there is also a question raised by the representative Eriksson about why the government party cannot join the minority proposal that lies there. I think the council had a very good answer to that, to how difficult and complicated it was. When it comes to statutory courts, they're quite infrequent, and they can't be treated in the same way, as we see it. I can list everything within the framework of health legislation and social legislation, within the framework of training laws, we have many types of pension schemes, sickness benefits, economic social assistance, the right to access the file, the right to appeal – you have a flora of justice. Therefore, it is not correct and also not reasonable to consider them together. In my opinion, we have now had enough review, and we have enough documentation. Documentation has also given us the media. I want to praise TV 2 for the job they have done by focusing on this challenge. We have to make sure – that is our task – that statutory dishes are complied with, and that they are at an adequate level and of good quality. But I also thought that the Storting should perhaps take some self-criticism and see that it might be easy to adopt statutory rights and not think about funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1685	If we ignore the words that have fallen on how we have understood comments and such, I still want to repeat what I said in my speech, that this debate is particularly important, although not everyone agrees that the overall review requested by the minority is appropriate. I refer you to the post that Trine Skei Grande made. I think it was a glittering post, which very much shows that if we concentrate a lot of the political resources around the legal rights that have been worked out, yes, there are many who may be left standing at the station. It is every government's lot to make sure that everyone gets the necessary well-being that seems natural, even if it's not legal. I think in many ways that today's debate shows something of the back of the law by that we're also caught by it, it's like where the concentration is, that's where we're going to have a review, and that's where we're going to have a penalty. The important thing now must be that the objectives, whether legal or political, set by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, are more achieved where there is a lack, and that it is not such that those who have not worked out their rights are almost left at the station. In such a discussion, it is interesting to see that in the societies where they have chosen to invest in less financial resources into the community, among other things. in the case of heavy tax havens, it is the public welfare that loses. The fact that you are not willing to use tax instruments locally, for example: property taxes, thus, affect people out of the country in relation to key welfare goods, and there is only one penalty. It's the politics, the elections, and what politicians we get in. In my opinion – and I am sure that I have the whole government with me in it – this is the big question in terms of designing the welfare of the future. This is not an isolated debate on how to deal with the legal provisions that clearly legislate rights. We've been asked by the committee to give an assessment related to the sanctions side, and we'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1700	It was by no means my intention or my desire to provoke anyone in my first post. Here, to the best of my ability, I tried to listen to what was said by those behind the majority remark. I also tried to find out what the Upbeøen Hansen said to TV 2 yesterday. When I saw that report, I was actually happy. I was convinced that this majority comment had something to do with it that would actually impose sanctions. But I understand from the debate today that that is not the case, but that one should just consider. As far as I remember, the representative, Opbebøen Hansen, said yesterday that it is perfectly obvious that such a comment is not promoted for no reason, but that you want sanctions. So, Oppebøen Hansen and the Council of State agreed today: it is well documented, both through the role of the media and through other kinds of concerns that both magnification and government have got into the different departments. I then ask questions about why further consideration should be given, if everything is well documented, and with this majority comment I want to impose sanctions. Then there might not have been a problem for the Council of State and the government to say yes now either. That is, of course, the intention of the minority with the proposal, because we believe that the Storting does not have enough evidence to take safe action today. That's why we're asking for another, broader review. So I hear – and now I'm going to be a little careful so I don't extend the debate again – that the Council of State is now beginning to talk about taxes and taxes in its last speech and is almost criticising local politicians for not increasing taxes and charges even more, and that that is where the problem lies. If that's what's the starting point of this government, at least we need to get a broader review, when we know that's what's the problem. If so, it is a strong argument for the main desire of the Progress Party to ensure these rights, namely that the funding is directly linked to the service or performance that is the right-holder.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1711	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1727	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1736	On 17 November last year, the Minister of Justice presented his statement to the Stortinge on the issue of the possible illegal surveillance of Norwegian citizens under the auspices of an observation group associated with the US Embassy in Oslo. The Minister of Justice stated in the statement that neither he nor his two predecessors had been aware that illegalities had been committed, and that the same was true of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other members of the Government. The Minister of Justice also pointed to the national attorney’s decision to investigate the case and that the prosecution authority will assess whether there has been a criminal offence. In its work on this matter, the Judicial Committee has been particularly concerned with two aspects. Firstly, the description of the factual facts relating to the possible illegal monitoring of Norwegian citizens is indeed correct. Secondly, the Committee has been concerned about whether the seven measures outlined by the Minister of Justice in the statement are sufficient to ensure legal certainty, good public administration and, at the same time, the security of embassies and foreign representation in Norway. The Committee stresses that there is a ban on the exercise of foreign powers in Norwegian territory without Norwegian consent and that there is a requirement for compliance with Norwegian law in Norwegian territory. The activities of the embassies are governed by the Vienna Convention of 18 April 1961 on diplomatic relations and international customary law. A very central aspect of the Committee's work has been the clarification of the extent to which an embassy's own observation measures can be implemented outside its territory in order to ensure its own safety. This was referred to by the Council of State in its statement, and in addition the Committee has asked for clarification in writing to the Minister of Justice. The Committee notes that the Minister of Justice has applied international law as described in that Vienna Convention and that to some extent it provides for safety-related measures in the immediate vicinity of embassies. The Committee points out that it would be in the interest of both the embassies and the Norwegian authorities to clarify this borderline more specifically than is the case today. The Committee considers that the concept of immediate proximity must be interpreted literally and that the general rule is that this grey zone is limited to an absolute minimum. At the same time, the Committee considers that there should be room for some discretion on this issue. The current threat situation and the location of the embassy in question are factors that could be significant. The Committee assumes that security measures outside the border of ownership of embassies, including observation activities, shall be formally notified to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in advance. The Committee also emphasises the circular note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the diplomatic representations in Oslo, dated 14 January 2011. In the opinion of the Committee, this note makes clear the procedures, responsibilities and interactions between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the embassies and representations of each country in a good way on security issues. The Committee also considers it appropriate to comment on a letter from the US Embassy dated as early as 5 May 2000 to the POT – current PST – and the Oslo Police District. This letter clearly describes the establishment of an observation group. But the letter is not registered as received by any of the addressees, nor has it been filed, according to the PST and Oslo police districts. The Committee wonders whether this is the case. The Committee would highlight the transparency on the basis of which the Minister of Justice presented the case. This has been positive for both the information on the matter and for the consideration of the Committee. It is relatively rare that a report is dealt with by a professional committee in retrospect. In the cases that have occurred, the recommendation is that the statement be annexed to the minutes. However, in this case, a unanimous committee establishes that the Stortinget asks the Government to provide appropriate information on the measures it has taken to follow up the Minister of Justice’s presentation. This is due to the nature of the case, and it is underlined by the Committee that the case identifies a need to clarify the lines of responsibility and information in the departments concerned. This is confirmed in the next case on the file, where the Control and Constitutional Committee finds it to criticise the PST for the lack of reporting on this case. A Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence aligns itself with the position of the Judicial Committee. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this comprehensive and important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1771	Then I'll start by reprimanding that thank you. I would like to start by thanking the case spokesperson for a good and constructive cooperation in this matter. Furthermore, there is also reason to commend the Minister of Justice for his openness and good publicity for the Stortinget. Here a very thorough and thorough work has been done. It also showed the debate in the Storting in the cold water that the distribution was presented in Stortinget. Several parties indicated that this was a good thing. Openness is both positive and necessary in such types of matters. The Committee has focused on two lines of work: content and facts of distribution; and proposals for action to avoid claims of illegalities in the future. A central theme was to clarify the extent to which an embassy can monitor people outside its own territory. Here I believe that we have been given the necessary clarification, and I suggest that it follows from international law that ambassadors have the right to put in place their own security measures in relation to their own embassy area and so on. The ambassador's residence. I have also understood it so that it is also possible to make observations relating to restricted areas in the embassy's vicinity, if there are conditions in the threat image that make it necessary. On the other hand, it is totally unacceptable to film all passersby at the embassy, if the aim is to register personal data. Of course, when it comes to the boundary here, it has to be dependent on judgement and in a way that is in accordance with Norwegian law. However, the Committee considers that there is a need for clearer borderline moves here, and looks forward to this being done. When it comes to the distribution to Minister of Justice Knut Storberget in Stortinget on 17 November 2010, I said earlier that she was proper and thorough. The Ministry of Justice and Police had received reports from its agencies, the Police Directorate and the Police Security Service, the PST, and information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Defence and the U.S. authorities. The council was also very clear that if it had been a violation of the court order or other irregular things, it would have been reacted quite strongly. Neither the distribution nor what later appeared during the hearing indicate that this had happened. When it comes to the information and alerting obligations of the Directorate of Police and the PST to the Ministry of Justice, it might suggest that it could be better. Therefore, I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has said that this is an area he wants a review of, and may consider whether there is a basis for tightening up this obligation. During the Committee's review on 19 January this year, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre said that the Department had never given any permission or consent to Norwegian citizens being monitored. Nor has the Committee found any reason to doubt this and is satisfied that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a circular note in January 2011 to all ambassadors in Norway, clarifying the distribution of responsibility for the security of the embassy. It is important to bear in mind that Norway is responsible for the embassy's external security. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also made it clear that measures beyond the Norwegian authority are to be clarified with Norwegian authorities. There is a strong emphasis on seven action points in the distribution. These are measures that are relevant and very important to ensure Norwegian citizens’ legal certainty and security for the embassy. I am aware that all of these measures have started or are in a distribution phase. It is satisfactory, and I look forward to the Storting being informed about the progress of these measures in an appropriate way. When it comes to the investigation that Eastfold police districts make reference to possible criminal offences, it will be up to public prosecutors to assess it in the first place. There will be no cause for Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1790	Let me also put myself in line with those who thank case rapporteur Anders B. Werp for a very well done work on this matter, and also thank the Justice Committee. We have come to a unanimous and good attitude. I would also like to take the opportunity to say to the Minister of Justice that his reaction to coming to Stortinget so quickly and make a statement, after this case broke on November 3, 2010 in the TV 2 news, was an exemplary way of doing so, and that other government councils can learn from when difficult issues arise. On November 3, 2010, this case broke in the TV2 news that the US Embassy in Oslo had established a Surveillance Detection Unit, SDU, in premises outside the embassy. Thus, Norwegian citizens had been used to have a type of surveillance activity against those in the embassy’s neighbourhood – monitoring traffic and activity in the embassy’s area. Otherwise, I think we can also say that there was a kind of monitoring activity in several places in the city. It's like several other speakers here have said, an activity that you can't accept. In that case, such activity must be informed to the Norwegian authorities and approved by the Norwegian authorities in relation to border areas for whom the security of the embassy is responsible. When Stortinget had its extensive hearing on 19 January 2011, there were some points we were looking to clarify. One was the fact, the other who knew what about this SDU unit and activity, the third why it was not intervened by the Norwegian authorities in relation to the activity, and why it was not reported to the responsible political authorities. My conclusions are, in the first place, the fact that the Americans had an extensive collection of information, not only in the area around the embassy, but also elsewhere in Oslo. It is also obvious that many knew a lot about this, both in the Oslo police district, in the PST and possibly in the POD. The question of why it was not intervened by the Norwegian authorities is an open question. This may seem to have given a tacit acceptance to the business. On the issue of why it was not reported to the responsible political authorities, it is very unclear why it was not done. The answer to that is that it was best not to know anything high up about this. In addition, it has emerged that there has been a fairly unclear practice for police officers to contact former colleagues and what kind of information has been transferred to them. There has also been a lack of clarity about what should be defined as the embassy’s neighbourhood — a concept that has not been clearly defined. It's a concept that you have to have clarity in. Here it's the same for all embassies. It is legitimate for the embassies to accompany them around their embassy buildings and residences to ensure their safety. We hope now that the guidelines you have to deal with can become clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1803	It was no less than a shock when TV 2 served the news on 3 November 2010 that Norwegian citizens had been monitored by the United States of America in Norway. Nordics shall have been depicted, car numbers shall have been recorded, detailed information on skin colour, hair colour, height and body structure shall be recorded. The information shall be systematised and sent to a register outside Norway, outside our control. This monitoring must have taken place in many places in the city. Eidsvoll's place and Youngstorget are mentioned. Later, TV 2 images from an office building outside the U.S. Embassy were shown as being used for surveillance. According to TV 2, you must have kept weapons in this office. There is now an investigation based on these claims. I don't want to prejudge the conclusions of this investigation, but if half of this is going to vote, there's reason to be cursed. Norway is not a banana republic, President. The legal certainty, privacy and democratic rights of the North, which can be legally demonstrated, shall be inviolable. Although the United States is known to accommodate other countries, it is totally unacceptable that the Nordics should be monitored, monitored and recorded so thoroughly. Now it's said that this activity should be within the law's bounds. Let's assume that no law is broken. The question then is whether we think it is okay that the Nordics can be monitored, monitored and recorded so thoroughly by a foreign power. The second question is, how would we, both politicians and police, in particular the PST, react if the Iranian embassy were behind such monitoring, monitoring and registration? What about the Chinese? Why were political authorities not properly informed about activities that were at the extreme of the police’s convenience? If the Indians or the Russians were running something like that, would PST not have taken care of the matter? SV is pleased that the Minister of Justice warns that ‘irregular practices shall be reported to the overall authority’. ‘With that, I also assume that political authorities are being briefed’, said the Minister of Justice in his statement in Stortinget on 17 November 2010. Of course, SV supports the Minister of Justice in clarifying to the US Embassy the framework for the tasks of the security forces outside the areas of the embassy. Outside the fence of the U.S. Embassy, it's Norwegian soil. Only the Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian police have the right and mandate to monitor people, if any, under strict Norwegian law. SV fully supports the Minister of Justice when he requires the US Embassy to respect Norwegian law in accordance with the Vienna Convention. SV understands that the U.S. Embassy and personnel have the right and the right to security in Norway. However, this security shall be fully available to the Norwegian police. Therefore, we must be able to demand that the United States respect Norwegian law and the Norwegian police's ability and willingness to deliver this security. So a friendly advice to the United States: maybe it's time to take a step back, sit down and reflect on why so many people all over the planet hate the United States so much that the country needs so much security – which makes even its friends angry and upset.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1822	The representative Chaudhry used the word "cursed," and I was a little surprised that the president didn't say anything about it. The norm for parliamentary vocabulary well implies that we magnificence representatives should be indignant and frustrated more than being cursed. I can't help telling a little story about a driver, who wrote in the insurance company's report after he had been run from behind: "It says in the documents that I am the offended one. I am not offended, I am cursed!" This debate is about the possible monitoring of Norwegian citizens by the US Embassy. First of all, I would like to point out that the Minister of Justice has in a special way thoroughly informed the Stortinget in this matter. He has been open and clear and has made it possible for us elected to have qualified opinions on the matter. I would also like to highlight the solid job that the case spokesperson, Mr. Werp, has done. There are two themes I would like to take for myself in this article. The one thing is what other powers can allow and not on Norwegian soil. The second is the information and alerting obligations of the Directorate of Police and the Police Security Service, and assessments of whether they have fulfilled this obligation in the case in question. All ambassadors have the right to remain secure and have their own security device. They shall also be able to put in place actions «immediately» close to the embassy. At the same time, I would like to state that Norwegian law applies here to countries, and that the ambassadors must stick to it. Norwegian citizens shall be safe from being subjected to illegal surveillance and registration and to the protection of their privacy. Even if Norway has a good relationship with the United States, and that we are close allies, because there is no doubt about it, we must be able – and we should – to set limits on what the United States should be able to allow. The case is still under investigation, and we cannot yet conclude on what has happened. In the worst case case, we never get this completely clear either, but what has come out has made it clear that there is a need for clarifications and more precise borderlines. Among other things, it is important to clarify what are legal observations and registration outside the border of ownership of the embassy. The concept of immediate proximity must be defined, even if it is necessary to use a discretion. So the duty of POD and PST has to inform and alert. The Committee would like the Ministry of Justice to provide clearer guidance on how the information stream is to be managed and on how suspicious cases are followed up. In the open check ring on 19 January this year, the PST made it clear that clear leads are necessary. We have to expect that underlying etats and directorates will notify the Department of suspicions or specific matters which may have a significant impact on Norwegian citizens' security and privacy, and suspicions of breaches of Norwegian law. I want to finish something that I started, simply by highlighting the positive of the Minister of Justice's presentation of the case to the Stortinget. I believe that the Ministry of Justice has acted later, and I also stress that they see the seriousness of the matter and that they follow up with the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1845	The Christian People's Party is not on the Justice Committee, but I think it has been an interesting setting to read, also because it is both sober and not least unanimous. This must indicate that the rapporteur and the committee have done a very good job. One must probably also say that what was revealed last November is a little in contrast to the interest that it is now for the final conclusion of the matter – for the time being at least here in Stortinget. I guess it also says something about this coming into the right propositions. – No, I say ‘proposals’, but I really mean something else, President! [[Laughter]] I was going to take a few of the measures that the Minister of Justice informed Stortinget when he came here and gave a very good account: the review of the information and warning obligation from POD and PST to the Ministry of Justice to assess whether there was a basis for tightening up this obligation. That, I think, is a central point of the statement made by the Minister of Justice. One of the other points was: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will, in its regular contacts with the representatives of foreign countries, reiterate the requirement that the staff of the embassies respect Norwegian law in accordance with the Vienna Convention. It is clear that the US Embassy has a fully legitimate security need. History shows what can happen if you don't take this seriously. The point here is to get this into relationships that comply with Norwegian law and law. I have noticed that the Committee has stressed that, with regard to the registration and monitoring carried out outside the embassy area, the borderline must be clearer than what you have felt before. I think it is interesting that the committee correctly states that the concept of 'immediate proximity' should be interpreted literally and that the main rule is that this grey zone is limited to an absolute minimum. It might have been interesting to hear the Minister of Justice look at that very wording. In any case, it is a very clear message to those who are going to operate this gradually. It cannot be that it is up to foreign powers to define ‘immediate proximity’. It is in the first row that the Norwegian legislator does. At the same time, I also note that the Minister of Justice wrote in a letter to the Committee: ‘The U.S. Embassy is the largest in Oslo, and worldwide also the representation that has the most intensified threat picture directed at it.’ That's what the Minister of Justice wrote. Then the PST leader added that the U.S. Embassy in Oslo “was among the U.S. embassies with least satisfactory building security, in relation to the threat picture”. It is also worth taking into account in the review of this matter. I use the opportunity to say two words from the Control Committee on the next matter, so I also save the time. There I would say that the committee is a little sharper, in fact, in its comments than the Justice Committee has been. We have received a separate report from the EOS Committee, and the Committee says that: ‘The EOS Committee has found grounds to criticise the PST for informing neither the Ministry of Justice and Police nor the EOS Committee of its knowledge of the security work of the US Embassy in Oslo.’ The Committee shares the opinion of the EOS Committee that this should have been reported. The Minister of Justice has stated in his statement that he will assess whether there is a basis for tightening up this obligation. So the size believes that there is a basis for tightening up this obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1879	First of all, I would like to express my gratitude for the treatment that this matter is subject to in Stortinget. This applies from all actors and from all parties and to all actors and all parties, and in particular to the rapporteur-in-chief. The way in which this matter has been dealt with shows, in my opinion, Norwegian policy at its best, where we are faced with very serious accusations, with every reason to go into this, while at the same time being able to find a way out of this with current and constructive measures and good discussions around it, and at my discretion also a good political process, which I would also like to thank the President of the United Kingdom for having had the opportunity to do. On 19 January 2011, the Judicial Committee held an open hearing on this matter. I then informed them that I was not aware that new and relevant information had been generated that was of importance beyond what I had previously explained to Stortinget. However, I would now like to point out that, after the hearing on 19 January, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received an enquiry from this American embassy expressing the desire to reactivate their ‘Surveillance Detection Program’ – SDP. In a letter to the Stortinget of 15 March 2011 from Minister of Justice Grete Faremo, the Justice Committee was briefed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received such an enquiry. The enquiry came in response to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs circular note of 14 January 2011 to all embassies in Oslo. In the note, it was clarified that embassies wishing to take security measures in addition to the general measures taken by the Norwegian authorities have to notify the Norwegian authorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The enquiry by the US Embassy has not yet been answered by the Norwegian authorities, but is being processed, and will be answered as soon as possible on the basis of input from the relevant professional authorities, including the Ministry of Justice. In the hearing on 19 January 2011, I informed that all the measures outlined in my statement of 17 November 2010 have now begun, or are in a start-up phase. In the following I will allow myself to give a brief status on this work, and I ask for an understanding that the implementation of the actions takes some time, some of them. The Ministry of Justice has reviewed the information and alerting obligations of the Directorate of Police and the Police Security Service to the Ministry to assess whether there are grounds for tightening up this obligation. In addition, the Ministry has looked at the procedures currently in force for direct contact between the underlying departments of the Ministry of Justice and other departments. In this respect, I have noticed that the Committee in its position assumes that the review of the Department results in clearer descriptions of responsibilities for information and follow-up. I have also noticed what has come from the EOS Committee, of course, and also the treatment of the Control and Constitutional Committee in such a way that the representative of the Syversen was involved. On this basis, the Ministry of Justice has today sent letters to the Police Directorate and the Police Security Service clarifying and clarifying the procedures and expectations for the Department to receive sufficient and timely information from the subjects. The aim is to ensure that matters of importance are notified and informed to the Ministry, both related to specific events and ongoing tasks, and that the subject-matter of its dialogue and contact with other departments, etc. be based in the Ministry of Justice. This letter I suppose will also be public in a short time. Furthermore, the Ministry of Justice has asked the Directorate of Police to assess the need for a new provision on quarantine and prohibition of action in the Police District Staff Regulations, etc., or whether such provisions should be mentioned in the Police Directorate's comments on the Staff Regulations. A period has been provided for the development of a propulsion plan, which will then end on 10 June 2011. Furthermore, it is appropriate to ask the underlying agencies to assess whether quarantine clauses should be introduced into employment contracts for which the nature of the office or post so requires. It is also appropriate to consider whether the officials already in service should be asked to sign such an addition to their contracts of employment, the nature of which so indicates. In addition, the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs has announced that a sample should be set up to review the country's quarantine rules, and the work of the sample could have an impact on the questions I have just referred to. I would also like to point out that the governing personnel policy document, an ethics counsellor developed by the Directorate of Police, sets out ethical principles for the performance of the service. The main objective is to ensure a high ethical and moral awareness of daily work. Such a high ethical and moral awareness is, in my opinion, important to have great attention in the establishment. Now my time is running out, President, but I suspect the Foreign Minister will come up with the parts of the measures that concerned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1900	In addition, it is still possible to ask for posts with a duration of up to 3 minutes, if desired. Now, however, is the occasion for a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1906	Although the Storting today ends the treatment of this matter, the two councils present here today still have some work to do. It was also the State Council of Storberget inside at the end of his post, where he went through those parts of the seven points that are his responsibility in terms of what work is being done in relation to them. What I could imagine the Council of State said something about, in addition, is what the time horizon the government sees in terms of when they will come back to the Storting, the way they will come back to the Storing in terms of how they intend to implement these points, and how the concrete follow-up to these points has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1913	We will find the appropriate form of how to report back – it is important that we get back on the record. Some of these questions may, of course, update legislative changes and in this way be the subject of proposals for the Storting. But I think that, for the whole of the matter and to the extent also to continue the line that has gone on openness to a large extent, we could have an overall review of where the measures are, already in the budget proposal that comes to the harvest. It would be natural to be able to do that there. As I said, with regard to alerting obligations, in particular from the Police and Police Directorates, a letter has been issued today describing how the Ministry looks at this alert deadline, both in relation to legal provisions and in general. And there are documents that will be readable and give a good answer to what the department thinks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1920	The Secretary of Justice said that the U.S. Embassy sent a letter asking for reactivation of the so-called Surveillance Detection Program. The Justice Committee has also been informed of this. My question is related to that. It may be argued that reactivation of that programme should perhaps wait for the investigation to be completed in order to bring about the necessary signals and experience gained in that context. Is it assessed by the government whether to wait until the investigation is completed before responding to the enquiry, or will it not be assessed?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1925	There's a video that we're going to include, because it's now under work. We are now reviewing this enquiry from the Ministry of Justice and making input to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, what we have a lot of attention around is the legal boundaries and what the legal situation is. But I'm taking the point from the case rapporteur and I'm going to include it in the further consideration, because we haven't finished that work yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1932	I am concerned about what the Committee says about who has the right to monitor in the ‘immediate proximity of the embassy’ – I quote it quite correctly. How does the Minister of Justice view this? Does he believe, through what is now an attitude of the Committee on Justice of the European Parliament, that almost any action outside an embassy's property limit must be subject to prior approval by the Norwegian authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1937	No, it would be to draw it too far, in my opinion. But there are clear boundaries, and I want to say that the boundary line really consists of three elements. The first is the physical distance, immediate proximity, without I dare – and I don't think it's right – to go into what you're talking about by meters, because it'll also be relevant to the other two points. The second is the question of the nature of the activity linked to the security of the embassy. It is quite obvious that the type of activity is important in assessing it, and especially when it is safety related. The third is in general — in addition to safety activity — what is actually happening. It will be important to assess any – and not just the embassy, it is everyone’s – opportunity to observe and observe, and you do not want to violate the law on monitoring. It must have a certain intensity. And that's whether it's close or distant from the embassy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1948	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1951	I'll be brief. I would like to comment that there are few in the Chamber and little attention, suggesting that there has been a very thorough work and a great deal of transparency after the statement by the Minister of Justice and the committee reading. I agree with the positive report which has become both him, the chairman of the committee and the committee's position in part. And I join the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Minister of Justice's comments and his comments. I want to say that in the time that has passed since this became a matter, we have had a good and open contact with the U.S. Embassy. I want to commend them for being clear and accessible in the dialogue they have had with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since this received a lot of attention. It is important to stress that there is good reason on the American side to be focused on safety. It's a theme that goes all over the world, and it goes to our city as well. The Minister of Justice was concerned with the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received a letter dated 19 January, in which the US Embassy expressed the desire to reactivate the Surveillance Detection Program. I would first like to say that it is positive that this comes in the form of a letter. And – to put it that way – this letter has been received and archived. We know that it is now available. We give it careful treatment, as the Minister of Justice was about to do. This was transmitted to the Committee by Minister of Justice Grete Faremo. I agree with the Minister of Justice that the comment here from the representative Syversen is worth including, that, when we review this letter, we should assess all aspects and also look at the process that has been going on since November. I would like to stress from this speaker that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs attaches great importance to the security of all the embassies in Oslo. I recall that the judicial and police authorities have the executive responsibility for the security of the embassy, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' responsibility is to ensure that our obligations under international law are met. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Ministry of Justice and Police, will conclude with regard to the measures referred to by the Minister of Justice in his statement in the United Kingdom on 17 November last year. We would like, among other things: assess the need for further formalisation of procedures for reporting on embassy security work at the practical and operational level, including a dedicated high-level consultation mechanism consisting of the Ministry of Justice, the police and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in particular for embassy security issues. Otherwise, the circle we sent out from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs seems to have been well noticed at the embassies, so at least we've been told what the formal framework for it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1968	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e1984	The so-called surveillance case that claims that the Surveillance Detection Unit Group, SDU, is to be in charge of surveillance and registration in Norway on behalf of the U.S. Embassy, received considerable media attention in November last year. As a result of TV 2's revelations, Minister of Justice Knut Storberget made his own statement to the Stortinget about the matter. The Minister of Justice’s statement has been discussed by the Justice Committee – and the Stortinget at the moment, in the previous case – and will therefore not be further affected in my speech. However, the Stockholm Agency for the Secret Services, the EOS Committee, carried out a limited survey as a result of the information provided in the media. The investigation was limited to the role of the Police Security Service in the case. In the light of the findings made during their studies, the EOS Committee chose to send a specific message to the Stortinge. On a general basis, the Committee has stated that it is positive that the EOS Committee makes use of the possibility for them to send such a specific communication to the Stortinget, and also expresses the wish that this should be done in future in such cases in order to ensure timely political discussion in the Stortinget. The Committee has also supported the understanding of its own mandate by the EOS Committee to include monitoring and investigations related to the existence of foreign intelligence activities on Norwegian soil with which the Norwegian security service has also authorised or been known. This also includes, of course, the possibility for the sample to examine how the Norwegian services have managed the situation and to inform the overall authority. According to the instructions of Section 17 of the Police Security Service, the Ministry of Justice is required to report all matters of importance. The EOS Committee has come to the conclusion that the PST broke the instructions at this point when they failed to report to the Ministry of Justice on the service’s knowledge of the SDU’s activities. This is, of course, a serious situation, because the ministry is deprived of the possibility of implementing corrective measures or of setting up Norwegian action and dialogue in line with what the ministry believes to be right. The lack of reporting therefore leads to the kind of situation that we experienced in this case, where it was sometimes tried to shift responsibility in different directions. For its part, the Committee stresses that ‘the reporting obligation is fundamental’ and that the reporting threshold should be low also in the case of allied countries. For my own part, I would like to add that it does not exactly strengthen the PST case when the incumbent head of the PST in the media expresses that she is not really so concerned about focusing on the activities of allied countries in Norway. The Committee stresses in its opinion that: ‘The legal security barriers adopted by the Stortinget are of fundamental importance for citizens’ security against breaches of their powers and that the PST has a specific responsibility to safeguard the same interests’. The EOS Committee also criticises the PST for failing to inform the sample of its knowledge of the activities of the SDU. The Committee has been very clear that, in order to ensure the possibility for the EOS Committee to exercise effective control, it is important that the selection should receive information from the PST on matters of importance. There appears to be no doubt that the SDU business was a matter of importance, and that there should therefore have been both reported to the Ministry and informed to the sample. The Committee considers that this has not happened to be «serious and critical». Those who know the language theme of the Control and Constitutional Committee understand the scope of this opinion. For the Progress Party, I would also like to add that it is always the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that the service is aware of the threshold set to ensure adequate information for the Ministry. The fact that the service has assessed this error has led, as we heard from the Council of State say in the previous case, to a review of what threshold the Council of State wants to be the basis for future reporting by the services. That's good. With this a unanimous committee position is put before the Stortinget. It is therefore unanimous on all points.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2008	As the committee leader said, it is a consensual committee that presents a relatively precise criticism of PST's behaviour in this matter, which clearly states that one must clean up and follow his own laws and rules in relation to § 17. There, PST has not followed its own instructions and informed the Minister of Justice and the EOS Selection, as they are obliged to do. Just to get a little bit of a philosophic about it: Is this how the EOS selection should ask PST if they know something that we should know? How is this confidence to be restored again, as PST did not tell the EOS Committee and the Minister of Justice what they actually knew? I hope that the Minister of Justice will think further. How can we ensure that PST actually puts all the cards on the table to the EOS selection – Storting its important body to follow up these issues? We had the Lund Commission. If you're on the left hand side, you know there's surveillance going on. There has been massive, illegal surveillance of people on the left. But that's after all for a while. I had e.g. An uncle who was monitored for 30 years – all the mail was opened, all the phones were tapped, every movement was followed. He was a union man and NKPs. I would almost think that we had come a step further in relation to the cold war. But in a way, it was kind of like that to me when we got this case at the embassy. That one is actually doing lawbreaker yet, that one accepts it in PST, is terrifying. I expect that this strange organization has many good photographs of the signatures, which have been in the lawn outside in demonstrations constantly away, against war and other misery in the world. You must keep these images. But I think this is a serious matter, and I am now happy to hear the Minister of Justice say that he has today sent letters where he is about to streamline the rules to be followed. I think that makes a lot of sense. I expect the Minister of Justice to hold on to this matter, so that everything is cleaned up, so that we let go of several such episodes of PST, and so that the PST actually enters the new time they are in, and does not live as in the old cold war.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2019	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2035	Where the majority of the Committee, which is all but the proposer, rejects the proposed representative, it is primarily because the proposers in the document ask the Government to set up a Constitutional Commission to review the Constitution. It is such that the Storting does not normally ask the government to investigate changes to the Constitution. In those cases where the Stortinge has seen it necessary to carry out a more detailed investigation prior to the promotion of constitutional proposals, the investigation committee has been shut down by the Stortinge itself. That being said, the question of the shape and content of the Constitution is an important debate, and we are discussing at each time a number of concrete constitutional proposals presented by members of the Stortinget. So the development of the Constitution is a result of changing political circumstances and political grips. And then a lot of paragraphs have changed since 1814. Between 1908 and 2008, no less than 583 amendments were tabled to the Constitution, 86 of which were adopted. There are at least two ways to approach a revision — or revisions, if you like — of the Constitution. You can, as the proposers suggest, carry out a complete audit, or you can follow the line that Stortinget has now followed, namely to get into parts of the Constitution. I believe that we need to constantly assess our constitution in relation to today's challenges, but that does not necessarily mean that we are opening up to replace all the provisions and principles on which the mariners – they were men – based their constitution. A full constitutional audit does not necessarily give us a better constitution. On the other hand, there is a danger that it will be marked by many details and compromises. Then the Basic Law loses lightly its soul and its meaning as a guide and a normmaker. The creation of the Human Rights Committee under the direction of Inge Wohnung is an example of drawing out individual themes from the Basic Law, and in the Left's draft document, it is also one of the areas mentioned by the proposers, but it is thus preserved through work in a selection here in the house at the moment. The decision on the closure of nobility and laying, the changes in the national legal system and the incorporation of the church settlement into the Constitution, which is set out later in this enlargement period, are other examples of the Storting's willingness to make important adjustments to the Constitution to bring it more into line with today's reality and the challenges that tomorrow also brings. The proposers originally wanted in their document to ask the government to investigate the changes to the Constitution, as I mentioned here at the outset. So, essentially, questions about constitutional changes have been considered to be the responsibility of the Storting. A completely different question is whether a system is in place that adequately ensures the technical quality assurance of the amendments that are sometimes adopted. It's a question that the Presidency has to consider at all times. With this, I recommend the majority position of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2054	Then the next speaker is Trine Skei Grande, then the representative Per-Kristian Foss. We are about to approach the time of the end of this morning's meeting, so it will eventually be considered whether the debate should continue after the break. Proposals for amendments to the Constitution should have proper debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2059	I fully agree with that. But this is a little bit more general than a single change. I'll try to be short. The left believes that when you have committees in Stortinget, it's for processing. It is quite clear that when we made our decision, there was an accident at work, in which the rapporteur hung himself up well, but in which we have settled in the vote. The left's intention to have an overall review is to get both a linguistic update and an update in relation to today's legislation, but also to have today's governance incorporated into the Constitution, as it is not. I think we should have a constitution that all schoolchildren can read through during school and have a close relationship with. Today we have a constitution that has many points that are very active, while other points do not reflect what is the real regime we have in Norway, for example. with parliamentarianism. Left supports the review made by the Wage Committee, where we look at the possibility of incorporating human rights. We also see that there is a proposal in the Storting that deals with the linguistic revision, but we want an overall review to have an up-to-date foundation law that can also be part of the teaching a child is going through during school. I want you to have a constitution you have a very active relationship with, and that also reflects the regime we have. We don't. It was the debate we had at the National Conference of the Left that led to the decision in the Left Programme. Now I understand that we don't get broad support for it today, but to say it this way: The left has a long tradition in this room to promote proposals that we don't get broad support for at first – but it gets like this at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2072	Can the President take it that the representative Trine Skei Grande brought up the proposal she mentioned so that we could have it recorded?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2075	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2080	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2083	Yes, it's probably right, as the representative Skei Grande said, that the proposal got a little more welcome at Left's national meeting than it's going to get here. I have also not stressed the accident at work that the Left has committed, contrary to its history, namely to ask the government to investigate what the Storting has absolutely in its hands. That proposal has now been changed in the vote. No, the reason is simply that the question of rewriting the Constitution has been assessed many times in the history of the Grand Duchy — in fact, as late as the period 1997–2001. Then it did not come up in plenary in Stortinget, but the question was raised – as far as I remember – by the then Grand President Kolle Grondahl, who discussed the issue with all the parliamentary leaders. The question was then removed. I thought that was very reasonable. Some of the reasons why it was dropped were, among other things, the agreement was reached on setting up a Commission to look at the incorporation of universal human rights into the Constitution, so that we do not have the paradoxical situation that the EMK will be governed by the Norwegian Constitution – also a very sensible conclusion. The left was on both sides, both to put it away and put the Commission down. In fact, the big thing tradition is to review the Constitution regularly, so the Right's view is that we should continue to do what we've always done, when it works well – and it does here, since 1814 – and improve when the need is there. As the rapporteur said, 86 proposals have been adopted. I think that the timing of the proposal is extremely poor, because the Stortinget has never been as constitutionally reformative as in recent periods. In fact, both parliamentarianism has been brought into the Constitution and has been given an innovation in the relationship between state and church – and the incorporation of fundamental human rights into the Constitution is under way. So hardly any period has probably been marked by so much change and modernisation of the Constitution as precisely the later periods, including the one we are now in. So I don't see any reason for rewriting. It's an exercise of duty after the Left's National Meeting that I don't see any reason to attend. I rather stick to the old Left tradition of changing the Constitution regularly, because in the case of the 86 proposals, I think I dare take the chance to say that the Left must have been on a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2094	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox The vote will now be adjourned, and the sitting will be resumed at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3512]] The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16.03. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2105	The budget shall continue to examine matters on agenda No. Seventy-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2119	Government purchases goods and services for nearly 400 billion. kr annually. The state alone stood for over 170 billion dollars. kr in 2009. Infringement of the rules on government acquisitions has been a repetition of the National Audit Office’s reporting on state activities. Errors and defects have been mentioned several times. The situation has improved somewhat in some areas, but there is still considerable potential for improvement. Non-compliance with procurement law may result in higher prices and lower quality of the goods and services purchased by government. It also increases the risk of corruption and of maladministration. It is therefore positive that the Riksrevision focuses on the theme. A Joint Committee has noted that the Ministry of the National Audit Office has expressed its broad focus on better compliance with the legislation. This, of course, is good. And that's enough to take hold of. 1 196 regulatory infringements have been detected in the 616 cases where non-compliance with the procurement rules has been found in the period 2006-2009. The most frequent remaining breach of legislation is lack of competition. This applies to more than half of all matters. Often this is due to the continuation of expired framework agreements, where new tenders should have been announced. Another remaining breach of legislation is a lack of or lack of record keeping. This applies in 45 pst. of the cases. Other regulatory breaches detected are lack of traceability, lack of HMS certificate or tax certificate, lack of written contract, incorrect selection of tendering procedures, lack of competitive grounds, failure of publication and breach of the rules on stability. Why, then, is it that the rules are not followed? This is a complex issue, where it is difficult to explain a single reason. The report sets out eleven possible root causes based on surveys of the establishments and departments concerned. Lack of legislative competence is the reason stated by most establishments. Another reason mentioned is a lack of order skills, i.e.: knowledge of the needs of the establishment and the potential suppliers. Often purchasers believe that there is only one current supplier and address him directly when goods and services are to be acquired. Lack of regulatory competence and ordering competence are often due to the low level of organisation of procurement. This has been discussed in the Committee's comments and the Committee refers to Innst. S. No 348 for 2008-2009, cf. St.meld. No 36 for 2008-2009, where measures to improve the situation are also outlined. Increased leadership anchoring, improved internal control, increased competence and increased use of electronic solutions shall contribute to better procurement. The Committee also points out that the Ministry, following recommendations made in NOU 2010:2 Enforcement of public acquisitions, is in the process of designing new rules for the enforcement of public procurement. The Directorate for Administration and ICT – Diffi – has a central place in making public enterprises focus on improvements in the procurement sector. Among other things, Divi operates doffin.no and publishes newsletters with relevant information in the subject field. The target group is all those involved in public acquisitions, and in particular those directly or indirectly responsible for purchases in municipalities and counties. Digi is responsible for the fact that government and other public enterprises have an offer of acquisition price. This is an urgent and useful measure to remedy the situation. The knowledge portal, www.ankver.no, and Digit's work on further developing it with information, organisation and tools is also something that will strengthen this field. Difi publishes a newsletter in the field, as I said. The National Audit Office's report is mentioned in Newsletter No. 9/2011. The newsletter also mentions the digital signature scheme for public procurement in Europe. By signing electronically, purchases are faster and with greater certainty as to who has made the offer and that what has been delivered has not changed along the way. At the same time, the threshold is lowered to obtain cross-border offers. According to the Director of Diffi, this gives better competition to supply to the public sector. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, also point to a number of measures that can be considered to strengthen the field, such as a separate ‘buying State Council’, increasing the focus on small businesses and voluntary organisations in public procurement, and revising the procedure for the prioritisation of operators. The Committee also points out that the NHO and KS have launched a national supplier development programme. In this context, they have published a brochure showing how open dialogue between customers and suppliers at the early stage of acquisition contributes to new products, new technologies, better solutions and added value for all parties involved. The Committee considers that the size of public tenders should be highlighted. There is a well-known problem that many contracting authorities are struggling with the lack of participants in the competition. When only a few suppliers are involved, competition can be significantly reduced. Diffi refers to a Swedish survey that shows that many small enterprises never participate in public tendering because the contracts published are too large for them. By providing better facilities, there is a high potential for more competitors, greater competition and better public procurement. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, point out that for example: can be resolved by placing framework contracts or other major contracts on smaller parts, geographical or product contracts. In that case, smaller enterprises may submit offers to those parts where they have their expertise or geographical impact. Large framework contract competitions should only be conducted where one can achieve a better end result by an overall call than by the publication of the contract in less separate competitions. The complaint subject of public acquisitions, KOFA, deals with breaches of the procurement rules. The development there is ominous. The number of complaints has been significantly increased by the CODA. Although the staff has been increased, the number of cases has almost doubled from 2009 to 2010. The average duration of proceedings is now around six months. This is twice the target set four years ago. But not all illegal direct acquisitions come at KOPA's table. The subject of the complaint does not have the power to investigate cases where there is a suspicion that a contracting entity has failed to publish an acquisition. Complaints are subject to complaints from suppliers, organisations, politicians and others. The Committee welcomes the cooperation between KOFA and the Competition Authority in disseminating knowledge to contracting authorities on procurement law and on rules contained in the Competition Act on illegal tendering. All departments have mentioned acquisitions in the governance dialogue with the underlying activities. The leadership is largely general, with few specific measures affecting each activity. It must be assumed that, in its future governance dialogue, the departments focus more on compliance with the rules and specify, where appropriate, concrete measures to be taken. The Committee has also noted that the Riksrevision points out that the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs should work more closely on measures to prevent breaches of procurement law. The Committee agrees with this call for the Ministry to be kept informed of the developments. The National Audit Office states that the Ministry should continue its work on measures to ensure sound administrative practices in the field of procurement. The Committee asks the Ministry to follow this call and to continue its work on the guidance, organisation and increased use of electronic commerce, and not least the building of competence in the field. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left also ask for an assessment of the need for simplification of today's legislation, and ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2178	It's always out of the question when rules are broken and things aren't done properly. That's why it's good that the Riksrevision focuses on it. Not least, it is very good that the department takes these feedback very seriously and has responded with a number of measures – as the case-rapporteur also explained in his very good review of this matter that we have had. The Ministry has mentioned many of the points that have been made by the National Audit Office, and has made a number of suggestions on how they can improve, including: in St.meld. No 36 for 2008-2009, where actions to improve the situation are duly addressed. These include increased leadership anchoring, improved internal control, increased competence and increased use of electronic solutions to help improve procurement. It is an overall committee that considers this to be the necessary means of achieving its objectives and believes that it will provide solutions over time to the challenges identified by the National Audit Office. The Ministry is also working on the design of new rules for the enforcement of public procurement. The Ministry has stated that they have a broad focus on better law enforcement. Divis responsibility for government/public enterprises offering courses on the acquisition process is a very useful measure to remedy the situation. The knowledge portal, called www.ankver.no, and Digit’s work on further developing it with information, organisation and tools is also something that will strengthen regulatory competence. It is on this basis that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have departed from some of the comments submitted by the majority in the Committee's position. As far as we are concerned, proposals for measures that the majority believe will improve the situation. We believe that the ministry will reap improvements after the measures they themselves have taken, and we will await the results of this before we possibly introduce new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2189	The non-compliance with the public procurement legislation, as has been stated by the National Audit Office for many years, leads not only to inefficient resource use of state resources but also to what the National Audit Office calls ‘low transparency’. It's a key to what people in the populace call 'danger of corruption'. It is a fact that under low transparency about purchases, you could risk the administration being subjected to a pressure that could lead to what we call corruption. That is why this legislation is strict. Then it is all the more disappointing that it goes year after year without visible improvements in procurement policy. I have to say that it can almost sound like a humorous understatement when the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church believes that there is a need to increase the knowledge and competence of the legislation in order to strengthen and further develop the network of buyers. The Ministry of Renewal said the same thing under the previous Council of State, and the Ministry of Renewal is going to say – I think – in three-four-five years. Then why isn't there something happening? I have no answer to that question, but I look forward to the comments of the Council of State. It is a unanimous committee that supports the criticism of the Riksrevision, so the criticism is not softened by the government parties themselves or by the opposition through consideration in the committee. I want to underline that, because sometimes you get the impression that the Riksrevision speaks for deaf ears. You might think so in relation to the departments, but in relation to the Stortinget you get full backing here, as it is probably called in a less bureaucratic language. The only thing strange about the setting is that the government parties are jumping off every time you point out that there are ways to solve the problems. You would think that if you were in the government parties, you would be eager to give good advice to your people in the departments, and not least to the minister of renewal who has the overall responsibility in some way, but who at the same time knows that most purchases do not take place in that department. They take place in a number of other departments, not least in the underlying agencies. When we point from the opposition to some good measures, there are actually measures that are either practised in other countries – Sweden and the United Kingdom are mentioned here – or that the department’s own Directorate, Diffi, itself points to. So it should be relatively harmless proposals. For example, when you have: While pointing out that the Swedish government has its own purchasing state council, it is of course not intended to interfere with how the government distributes its work among itself, it is mentioned as an idea that can be seen in the name of international cooperation if it has worked in other countries. Even more strangely, it is in many ways when, as the rapporteur of the matter also pointed out, the issue of the balances and the time it takes to deal with what is called KOFA. This was a problem under the previous Council of State, Grande Røys. She promised Stortinget that the remains of the cause would be greatly reduced. That has happened, but I would like to have a promise from the current Council of State, too, on the reduction of the costs of the KOFA, because if this instrument is to be used effectively, it must not take years and days before the cases are dealt with. There are quite large fines that can be imposed on public offices and municipalities by KOFA, and I am pleased about that, but then there must not be a large remainder of things, so that the reality – I kept saying – is lost before the cases are dealt with. I want to demand the ambitions of the Council of State in this area. It's a matter of providing KOFA with funds, and I'm not an unconditional supporter of all public agencies getting more money, but I think that the supply to KOFA will be something that will make public use of because it will be a more effective tool to address the lack of use of bids in the government's procurement policy, and it's a lot of money to earn in this area. These are not my words, but I quote the State Secretary of the Council of State, Inger-Anne Ravlum, who said in a lecture on 3 November last year to diffi's staff: ‘Dear value creators, for that is what you are! This applies to both you and your suppliers to the public. It's an ambitious title Divi has given me. But they believe that public spending can save between 20 and 30 billion by making their purchases more efficient." Furthermore, it says, as I have underlined: ‘I thank you for that and have already included the figures in the budget for the following year.’ This was last year, so I'm very excited to hear the state council's comments on the results of this, especially considering that the government's first budgetary conference has been held in an area the Council of State knows well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2219	It was a pity that the representative Foss did not quote from the same speech that my State Secretary gave at the conference, because she said it was perhaps just as good and easy to get to that savings by delivering the money when you left. So it was said in a humorous tone, but I'm absolutely sure that by having more efficient and right purchases we have money to save. Therefore, it is important that we have a regulatory framework that contributes to the good and efficient purchase of goods and services by the State and the municipality. Only in this way will the Community funds be used as best as possible. After all, it should help to ensure that the public acts with high integrity, so that the public is confident that public procurement is carried out in a socially sound manner. The study submitted by the Riksaudition concerns establishments where a breach of the legislation has been found during the period 2006-2009. It does not generally say anything about compliance with the public procurement legislation. That being said, the Riksrevision has repeatedly pointed to a breach of procurement law in Document 1. That's what the government takes seriously. The National Audit Office’s study makes a useful contribution to improving compliance with the rules. The most common error in the cases now examined is that goods and services have been acquired without competitive performance. However, the study also reveals other types of errors, such as the lack of protocols to document the acquisition process, the lack of other types of evidence, the lack of traceability between contracts concluded and the accounting system, and the incorrect use of framework agreements. The study shows that the causes of these errors are complex. Lack of competence, as mentioned above, is the main cause. Furthermore, the National Audit Office’s report points to the unfortunate organisation of acquisition activity in businesses, lack of internal control, lack of acquisition strategies and the anchoring of management. The Riksrevision study thus largely confirms what was presented in St.meld. No 36 for 2008-2009, Good procurement. Here, leadership anchoring, internal control, the proper organisation of purchasing activity and competence were raised as the main factors in achieving good procurement. The Storing Communication contains a number of measures to improve these conditions. As I have explained in a letter to the National Audit Office, these measures have been followed up mainly by the Directorate for ICT and Administration, Diffi. Divi should, among others: ensure that government establishments offer courses and guidance. The Directorate shall work to strengthen and further develop networks for purchasers in order to enable purchasers to exchange their expertise, experience and tools. Difis knowledge portal, www.ankver.no, contains, among other things: information, templates and tools adapted to different types of acquisitions and for all stages of the procurement process. Here enterprises can also find guidance on internal control, management anchoring and the establishment of acquisition strategies. Another important measure to ensure good procurement is the increased use of electronic solutions. The government therefore has a five-year effort to increase the use of e-commerce in public acquisitions. E-commerce offers gains in the form of simpler, safer and more efficient public acquisitions. E-commerce also facilitates better compliance with the legislation, since standardisation of procedures and materials obliges purchasers to comply with the rules. In addition, it will be easier to control and track the acquisition process. Surveys by the National Audit Office also point to a lack of data on government acquisitions. I agree that we have too little statistics on government acquisitions. This was also pointed out by my department in the Great Purchasing Communication. Therefore, Divi was commissioned in 2010 to start work on improving the statistical base on government acquisitions. This work will necessarily take some time, but it has a high priority and will continue in 2011. The College of National Auditors has pointed out that extensive requirements for the implementation of procurement processes may be a contributing factor in the non-compliance of the rules. It is also registered that the majority has said in their comments. Norway is obliged by the EEA Agreement to have quite detailed rules on public acquisitions. However, the European Commission has launched a process to modernise and simplify procurement rules. In January of this year the Commission sent out a comprehensive consultation document. My department is now working on a hearing response. One of the main views that will be played from the Norwegian side is the need for simplification. If this is the result of the Commission’s work, it would of course be natural to start work on simplifying the Norwegian rules. The representative Foss mentioned KOPA as an important instrument for good compliance mechanisms for public procurement. We have had a public investigation that has looked at how to enforce rules on public acquisitions. The selection has given its setting, and we are now in the process of following that setting. KOFA's working conditions will be part of the work we do there. When we have reviewed the setting of the Enforcement Committee, I will be allowed to come back to Stortinget with how this will be followed up. It will also include how we will work with KOFA in the future. KOFA has received significantly increased budget resources in these years, but access to issues is huge, and we probably have to do some work, so we're going to get rid of the issues and see if there's any other way we can solve some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2247	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2250	In the comments of the Committee, there are some areas where the government parties do not follow the majority of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, in particular with regard to facilitating more competitors by setting up framework agreements competitions and other major bids in smaller parts, geographical or product terms. In that case, smaller undertakings may offer those parts in which they have their expertise, or their geographical impact field. I did not hear – it is possible it is wrong – that the Council of State in its article was involved in this topic. My question to her is how she responds to this kind of idea, and whether this is something she wants to contribute to, so that it gets better for the small businesses in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2255	I don't think it's possible to give a clear answer to that, until that's the Norwegian purchases for different. But I agree that there can be one way that more people can participate in the competition. Another point that was also raised in the rapporteur’s contributions is the need for innovation in purchasing. I very much agree with the rapporteur that this is important. I think we have too many people today who put out bids, without drying out to do innovation. This means that we buy too much the same thing as we bought last time. In my department, we are involved in financing the work done by the KS and NHO to achieve more supplier development in procurement. It may also contribute to the participation of more and new enterprises in competitive tendering.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2262	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2265	Let me first point out to the Council of State that I think it sounds strange when it is said that the lack of compliance with the legislation and what is pointed out by the Riksrevision does not give a general picture of the business. It's possible that you can see it that way, but at least it gives a general picture that there are repeated non-compliances over many years, and that's what's serious. A majority of the enterprises surveyed indicate that purchases are not put at a competitive disadvantage because of the past practice. It is, of course, simpler and relatively serious. This is serious, because it is most likely to create unnecessary use of the country’s funds — or taxpayers’ money, if you like. It is also serious because such a lack of competition does not provide any incentives for innovation, for competition that could not only create more cost-effective purchases but also contribute to new products, new solutions that could benefit consumers. It would, in turn, contribute to the emergence of ideas, of new businesses, of innovation, of technology — at all, strengthen our overall business life. In particular, I would like to stress that this is important for small businesses, which also have good cost-effective products, but which do not often participate in public tendering. It is a fact that there are often few providers of public competitions. The non-participation of small enterprises may be due to the size of the tasks that are published, but it may also relate to procedural requirements, heavy-duty approval schemes and not least to a bureaucracy which may initially deter small enterprises. And with a public, state and local government market, maybe up to 400 billion. This year, the public sector is a large and significant customer. There are too many opportunities, not least for abuse, but there are also unique opportunities to help develop Norwegian business through the acquisition of our common funds. A more active enterprise policy than that, I can almost not imagine. Therefore, product development and innovation must be stimulated by their suppliers, by the public sector, but also by good competition – and as much as possible must be avoided. The requirements need to be developed in interaction with suppliers, who are also innovators. And if we have too rigid arrangements, we're not going to get this. In order to stimulate smaller enterprises to participate, I believe that consideration should be given to the possibility of sharing tasks much more, both in terms of product, volume and geographical terms. Small enterprises often also have a lower cost level, while in fact they may have high peak competence in special areas. It will also stimulate smaller enterprises to participate if procurement legislation is made as simple as possible. Now I understand that the Council of States refers to the EU, that the EU should be the complicating factor, and that it is now working on something there, but it is quite possible to make things easier – you should not sit and wait for the EU – as long as it is within the rules. In a division it will also be more transparent for the country as a customer, and it will be easier to change suppliers, as pointed out by the National Audit Office that you do not often enough because you continue immediately, and you will get a greater diversity of suppliers. I believe that in new technological areas, such as: in the field of energy, and also in the environment and climate, public responsibility for further development of competition and competitiveness in Norwegian business is high. Public procurement allows enterprises to be perfected against international markets, and it is clear that acceptance from domestic public procurement organisations will often be a very good reference when it comes to world affairs. Health, care and care are new areas where more and more actors define as interesting, and where the public also has a great share of responsibility for drawing with private suppliers and their ideas and solutions. There should be a high potential for innovation and supplier development, and not least the recent Interaction Reform will lead to a great need to look at old problems with new eyes to find the new solutions, for the benefit of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2278	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2297	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2306	CO2 cleaning in Mongstad has a long history, and you can actually drag it back to the Bondevik government, even though today's government likes to take all the credit. In 2004 the Bondevik government promoted St.meld. No 47, on the innovation business of environmentally friendly gas power technologies, etc. The Mongstad project, on the other hand, was born in 2006, as a necessary compromise in the government to realise the CHP plant and upgrade the refinery. The story has then been turbulent — ever-new delays, disagreements about information flows, which led to the 2010 mistrust proposal, and an ever-increasing cost growth. This makes that especially in the opposition we have very watchful eyes in this matter. Likewise today, we see a unanimous growth that wants the project to be realised and that supports the adjustments in the project around the test centre in Mongstad. There is evidence of a long-distance opposition, but there is also evidence of a position that has spoken well with the opposition in this case. For many, including those who are signed, the knit is stretched as far as it can go without rushing into patience in this matter. That being said, much indicates that the project is now on the track it should have been at an early stage. I hope we avoid relapses. The project has now been clearly divided into two clear parts. First, build the test centre – and give it time for testing. It gives the project a central role in the attempt to develop commercial clean-up technologies. This clarification is important, because in the big debate in May 2009, the signal from the government parties was that full scale investment decisions should be taken regardless of whether the test centre was finished. This line has the government decayed, and that's good. Next, a full-scale clean-up investment decision is to be made in Mongstad. The decision has been postponed until no later than 2016, as was the case in the Official Journal of Bergen, which in May 2009 predicted that the lunar landing would take place in 2018 or later, quite foresight. But already it looks like you were actually optimistic. With regard to the full-scale clean-up point on Monstad, it is likely that the layers in this setting also separate, where some parties still give the impression of wanting to invest in Mongstad almost costing what it costs, while among other things. The Progress Party and the Right review the resource usage here for alternative projects. The Committee believes that the course that has now been set contributes to making the Mongstad test centre more interesting for research environments and industrial actors. The Committee also stresses that the government has a responsibility to ensure a broad involvement in the research communities. The Committee is set up to meet the need to involve several technologies in the test centre. This is particularly important when the government doubts whether the amine technology is suitable for large-scale CO2 cleaning. We point out that, for example: Siemens is warning that they want to go into the test centre at Mongstad. We hope that the government will handle this in a good way. Gassnova is set to do a screening work for potential CO2 clean-up projects beyond Mongstad. I would like the Council of State to specify a little what he has thought about this. Is it a three-year investigation programme to go to a look at the test facility, or is it an ongoing work that opens the way for the decision to be taken before? Int. S. No 205 for 2006-2007, an overall Energy Committee stated that the government should ‘facilitate further CO2 management projects’. For some of us, it is close to pointing to both Hammerfest Energie and Sargas’ project at Melkøya and at Industrikraft Møre and Siemens’ project in Møre and Romsdal. An overall opposition will allow industrial actors outside Mongstad to implement projects with full-scale CO2 cleaning faster and to obtain the necessary clarifications on government frameworks. So it's not enough that Gassnova investigates it, even though it's a good step in the right direction. An overall committee stresses that health, environment and safety must be at the root of the Mongstad test centre, and we point in particular to the work that is now being done to identify the potential cancer hazard of the use of amines. I would like to remind you that the Committee also mentioned this in 2009. So this isn't a new theme, as you can get the impression through the media. Successful development of CO2 clean technologies depends on a significant reduction in CO2 capture costs and a good subsequent management of CO2. This is important to clarify if we're going to succeed, because it's just developing full-scale technology that gets so expensive that nobody wants it, hasn't given it the breakthrough you need. But the government has also understood that. The Committee pointed out in 2009 that efforts should be made to make CO2 a resource rather than waste. I hope that the government will continue the work to a greater extent than today, and that they will look more into the use of CO2 for oil well injection to increase the extraction there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2369	One of the greatest challenges facing the world is climate change. If we're going to reach the two degrees goal, we're going to need a big shift in the way we produce and use energy. Large point emissions account for a substantial part of the emissions of CO2 internationally. In Norway, the 10 maximum point emissions are 20 pst. of the total emission. The clean-up of CO2 emissions from point sources will play an important role in addressing climate challenges both in Norway and internationally. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, some time ago said that if we're going to achieve our climate goals, we need a technological revolution. We need new technologies for renewable energy production, we need good solutions for energy saving, and we need technologies that can capture and store CO2. I am pleased that Norway has taken a leading role internationally in the development of capture and storage technologies. Analyses of what the future energy system will look like show that capture and storage technologies are central to achieving our objectives. There is a large amount of coal-fired power plants in operation today, and new ones are being built. For this very reason, it is extremely important to develop technologies that can capture and store their emissions. The announcement of the full-scale capture and storage of CO2 shows that government parties have set an ambitious course to contribute to the development, testing and commercialisation of such a technology. I think it is very gratifying to see that there is also such broad consensus on the Stortinge on the perspectives that the message draws up. The capture and storage of CO2 on the scale we're talking about here is ambitious. It's necessary to achieve the climate goals, it's new work, and we have to go up the path ourselves. The test centre at Mongstad is being developed according to the plan. When it's done, it's going to be the first thing in its kind in the world, and there's no other test centers that test so many technologies and that can vary CO2 in the flue gases in the order of magnitude that you do at the test centre. I am very pleased that the government has stressed that the partners in the test centre are actors who all have an industrial need for the technology being tested. This gives the project an important anchoring. Through the CLIMIT research programme and the CCS research centre and several other activities, we contribute to the development, testing and commercialisation of CO2 capture and storage technologies. The full scale capture and storage of CO2 is the objective of this work. We have to facilitate the capture and storage of CO2 both in new power plants and in so-called hot power plants, as we do in Mongstad. The existing point emissions in the world, and in Norway, are formidable. The work on full-scale CO2 cleaning in Mongstad is very important. Early on it was chosen to use amine-based technology, because it was the technology that was perceived as clearly the most mature. Now that we have received the information we have about the potential health hazards of amine technology, I am very pleased that we are taking the time to clarify any health problems, and that a technology qualification cycle is now taking place in Mongstad with several technologies – before the investment decision is made. The new cycle in Mongstad means that it is used up to three years for technology qualification and then up to two years for design. This is a common industrial process for working with immature technology. However, I would like to stress that if the question of health risk is resolved before three years have elapsed, the question of technology choice will be re-examined immediately. In addition to the full-scale work in Mongstad, it is important that Gassnova has been commissioned to investigate any other full-scale CO2 management projects in Norway. Together with the efforts of CLIMIT and international efforts, the testing centre at Mongstad and full-scale activity at Mongstad, this provides a comprehensive and offensive policy for the development of this important technology, from idea to production. Finally, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, for good conversations and constructive work that have made us basically – I was saying – come together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2438	There is a broad consensus that Norway should contribute to the development of a cost-effective CO2 capture and storage technology. That's why Stortinget has accepted the exceedances at the technology center in Mongstad, and the total bill, which now seems to be 6.5 billion. kr. However, a high price requires good use. It must be an ambition that the technology centre can play a significant role in the development of different capture and storage technologies for CO2 for decades to come and that the utility value is not limited to testing and further developing the two technologies that are now using the technology centre’s facilities. It is therefore positive that several international companies have chosen to purchase on the ownership side of the technology centre. There is a need to ensure a broad involvement in the research environment in Norway and internationally, in order to develop a strong research and business cluster around the Mongstad environment. There is also a broad consensus in this room that good health, environmental and safety standards must underpin the capture of CO2. The ambition must be to solve the challenges of using amines in the purification process. The right has noticed that Aker Clean Carbon believes the challenges are affordable, but we also notice that Statoil is of a different opinion. Research on health hazards associated with the use of amines must be continued and intensified. It doesn't help much to solve a problem by creating a new one. In this context, it is interesting if either Italy and/or the United Kingdom choose to use amine technologies in order to take investment decisions on full scale sewage treatment plants in the third quarter of 2011. If the schedule is maintained, both of these plants will be in operation before the decision on full-scale sewage treatment plants is taken in Mongstad, a decision by the government is announced that it will come in 2016. The revised schedule at Mongstad is likely to provide a significant transfer of experience from the construction and operation of other retrofit facilities. The Government also warns that it will facilitate the assessment of several actors and technologies in full-scale CO2 management. We see that as a correct and clear line break from the government. However, it is even more important that the government opens up to demonstrate CO2 clean technologies elsewhere than in Mongstad, which it has so far argued strongly against. The Prime Minister, former Prime Minister Terje Riis-Johansen, the Minister for the Environment and other prominent government representatives have all excluded support for projects other than the full-scale cleaning of Mongstad. Maybe this reverse operation is based on a recognition that it wasn't Apollo 1 that landed on the moon, but Apollo 11, or that it could be popular on the moon if we were to wait until Mongstad light. Anyway, it's positive that the government has turned around. This means that it is already necessary to send signals to actors such as Industrikraft Møre that the government can be willing to provide support for cleaning costs in addition to the quota price if Industrikraft Møre realises a new gas power plant. A new gas power plant with day-to-day clean-up represents a technology other than retrofitting in Mongstad, but building the first full-scale capture plant for CO2 from a gas plant in the world is itself a significant technology development. Such a sewage treatment plant should be built in accordance with an open tendering procedure, whereby the liability and risk of taxpayers is clearly defined. Siemens has estimated the price of cleaning a new gas power plant for about 2 billion. kr – and then built with a clean-up technology that has none of the health challenges associated with amine technology. There are two-thirds of the amount that the government estimates that the pre-projecting of full-scale clean-up at Mongstad will represent, i.e. the costs incurred before the Stortinget has decided whether or not full-scale clean-up is to be built on Mongstad. The government estimates the cost of full-scale clean-up at Mongstad to between 20 and 25 billion. kr. It's a very high number. The price must be reduced if the technology is to be of interest to more than the world's richest country. And that must be the overall goal of the entire project. The price must be reduced if Stortinget is to be able to defend the project from a climate perspective. The alternate climate gain of 25 billion kr will be significant. The price must be reduced if the project is to motivate other countries to invest in CCS. It is worth noting that other countries budget far lower than the government of Mongstad. The UK Government estimates, for example: to clean up 2 million. tonnes of CO2 from the coal-fired plant Longannet will cost 9 billion. kr including transport and storage. Investment decisions are long to be made in Mongstad. In the meantime, the government should give priority to achieving the costs of full scale clean-up, solving and facilitating the transport and storage of CO2 from multiple point emissions and contributing to the realisation of a new gas power plant with day one clean-up at a suitable location in Norway. The ambition to clean Mongstad must be firm, but the price must be down. Hopefully, the answer will be in the technology center we're now using over 6 billion. kr on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2496	First of all, I would just like to point out that, as far as I know, this is the first debate the Committee has in the Chamber with a new Minister for Oil and Energy. It's another minister from Trendelag. It's not stupid in the energy field. So I want to say to the matter that there is little doubt that the path to a zero-emission society is difficult, challenging and expensive. But that's what we have to look for. While the objective of developing CO2 clean-up technologies is not the achievement and not the absolute start, it is to contribute to solutions to one of mankind’s most pressing crises. The fact that we're busy is about the role we can play on the technology development front, and to contribute to the involvement of CO2 cleaning solutions in large parts of the world – for that's what it has to be. In this room we have regular discussions about which scenarios to base for the future when it comes to energy production, and the more oily of us like to base the International Energy Agency’s business as usual scenarios, and use it as evidence that we can almost unlimitedly continue to use oil and gas at a high pace without consequences. I belong to those who look at such thinking with considerable scepticism. Nevertheless, there is little doubt that fossil energy consumption will continue for a long time, and therefore it is essential to have solutions in place that contribute to the clean-up of these CO2 emissions. One of our biggest contribution to this is the project at Mongstad, both the technology centre, where several technologies are to be tested and developed, and the full scale project, which will show that full scale cleaning of an already built point emission is possible and feasible. These are big and complicated projects. Often, the debate on these projects is reduced to domestic political games. I think that's a pity, but there's nothing new in this. Governments have previously fallen on CO2 cleaning. Then it's probably also entertaining to hit moon landing jokes. But delays and challenges we face on the road, I believe, on the contrary, is proof that what we work with is so important. No one's ever done this before. This is the new crime we're doing. We have to assume that it's hard, and we have to make sure that what we're doing is safe. It's even going to say that some of the delays and problems we're facing make the technology center play the role it's going to play, that we're going to have to clarify these things, that we're going to try them out. So I believe that the adjustments that the government has now announced in the project are very wise. We allow for the qualification of several capture technologies, and then we facilitate broader technology developments that may prove useful in several different situations. I think this project, among other things. taught us not to trust 100 pst. on the cost estimates of individual actors early in a process, so I'm probably not as good at the estimates that the representative of Astrup is aiming for, as he might be doing himself. In addition, I think there is no doubt that it is right to make sure of the health aspects of the project. The expert says that this is probably going perfectly well, but that one should nevertheless use the precautionary principle. I fully agree with that. If the amine technology, which is probably the most mature technology today, turns out to be safe from a health point of view, we'll be able to get faster progress in the project than what's drawn up. But even the most avid climate champions in SV are quite clear that one cannot take shortcuts when this technology is to be developed, because it has to be applicable. It should be attractive, that's the whole point. Thousands of emission points around the world have to be cleaned during my lifetime. It is difficult enough to achieve if not unnecessary uncertainty is to be attached to the projects. Then it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that the health issue of using amine technology is not a new issue. It has also been mentioned in the previous period, but it is equally very important to clarify it, and it is agreed by the entire Committee. It is very gratifying that the committee is as assembled as it is in this setting. I join in the praise of the President-in-Office. Hopefully that gives predictability for this project also politically, which has sometimes been missing, and I see that it's still a little bit to go. Still, not all opposition parties would undertake to clean Mongstad and other major issues if they were to take over the control of the country. But this is a good step on the way. I also note that the Committee is united in its desire to raise its eyes and look at the possibility of cleaning projects at other major points of discharge in Norway. I believe that this is a very good and constructive input to the government in its work on the climate communication, and it is well connected, I think, with the government's informed investigation of models for large CO2 clean-up projects in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2534	The centre party believes that capture and storage technologies are among the most important Norway’s contribution to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. CO2 management is one of many but important tools to reduce global CO2 emissions. Norway has made good use of petroleum resources. It also gives us a moral responsibility to help bring about the necessary technology to capture greenhouse gases. That's what we do in Mongstad. As others have said, this is new work. That's why we're doing it. Some people have to get in the way in order to develop fully necessary technologies to slow harmful temperature rises on the earth. The test centre at Mongstad is the first of its kind in the world. The necessary prosperity development outside the OECD countries will lead to a significant increase in global energy consumption, and fossil energy will be necessary in energy supply for decades to come. The International Energy Agency has identified the need for more than 3000 full-scale sewage treatment plants in 2050 if the two-degree target is to be met. The work we're doing at Mongstad is an important piece in this. The government has a comprehensive commitment to CO2 management in addition to renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement in industry and construction. We need to stand on several legs to achieve our own climate goals, while at the same time developing technologies that will have international significance. At the same time, it is important that we have the best possible overview of the other challenges that CO2 capture and storage can pose. Potential negative health and environmental impacts of emissions of amines are one of them, and we need enough knowledge to be safe. Health, the environment and safety must be at stake. The Central Party considers that the State must play an important role in the development of cleaning solutions, but that the industry itself must be responsible for cleaning as much as possible once it has been put into operation. We are therefore looking forward to Gassnova's monitoring of possible clean-up projects in addition to Mongstad, including both existing gas power plants and industrial emissions. Several CO2 management projects are important in order to develop and qualify the technologies needed. The message shows that the work on the projects at Mongstad is central to the government's energy and climate policy. It is a demanding and cost-intensive effort, but a commitment that can achieve great and important results, not only for the Norwegian climate challenges, but for the major global climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2562	I will begin by addressing first of all the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted in this matter. Then I will start my speech by quoting Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's New Year speech to the Norwegian people in 2007: ‘Norway assumes a pioneer role when we have decided that the gas power plant in Mongstad will have the greenhouse gas CO2 clean-up. We're going to make this possible. When President Kennedy told the Americans to land on the moon within 10 years, the Americans had not been out in space. They came to the moon within 10 years. They set goals. And they achieved the goals. Our vision is that within 7 years we will put in place the technology that makes it possible to clean greenhouse gas emissions. It will be an important breakthrough to bring down emissions in Norway, and when we succeed, I think the world will follow. This is a big project for the country. It's our moon landing." This was an unusually clear speech from a prime minister we know well. The message was delivered on 1 January 2007, but it might as well have been held on the first day of another month. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg set a goal, but he has moved his goal – not once, but twice. I think the government's bending on Mongstad will mark Stoltenberg's legacy. The government has changed its strategy and left the pioneer role. The strategy and focus of the Mongstad project is no longer the fastest possible realization of the capture and storage of CO2 but the cheapest possible. The original full-scale CO2 capture schedule for Mongstad was established when Statoil was granted a concession for the construction of the CHP plant in 2006. Full-scale cleaning would be in place by the end of 2014 and the investment decision would be taken in 2012. The time limits were set as conditions in the emissions permit granted by the Ministry of the Environment. As part of the government compromise, the emission permit for the Mongstad gas power plant was given directly by the Ministry of the Environment and not by the SFT, as usual practice is. It is a very detailed emission permit. This would be toasted behind the mirror if Statoil considered running from the agreement. It is therefore inconsequential to see that the same emissions permit is now being amended continuously by the Minister for the Environment of SV as Statoil asks for new releases. All time requirements of the emissions permit have now been removed. In its answer to the questions put by the undersigned, the Ministry of the Environment has transmitted the revised terms of the emissions permit from December 2010. The revised emissions permit replaced the original investment decision requirements by 2012 and the full scale clean-up by 2014 with the following wording: «Full scale CO2 management from the cogeneration unit shall be established as soon as possible within the framework of normal industrial practice» We have to say this is far from a moon landing – this is normal industrial practice. Therefore, today’s Christian People’s Party promotes proposals that the implementation agreement should be renegotiated with a new deadline for full scale clean-up to be in place and with an incentive structure that contributes to the implementation of the project at time and cost. The government raises health risks through the use of amine technologies when they now justify the need for further postponement of the project. The Christian People's Party shares the concern for potential cancer. We're not prepared to gamble with people's lives and health to realize the government's foremost achievement project. In fact, it was the Christian People's Party, with the representative Laila Davøy, who first raised this question in Stortinget on written questions in March 2009. She asked for a guarantee that the government would not go into a solution that would go at the expense of life and health to the inhabitants of North Hordland. The undersigned took the matter further in the inner. S. No 206 for 2008-2009. In fact, the government chose to continue running on the same track for two years after these concerns were raised. If the government had chosen to take these concerns seriously in 2009, and opened up to alternative technologies at that time, we would today have been two years longer in the loop. Now we're back to start again. The government announces five new years of technology qualification, and the leap we had in 2006 is now lost. The proposition also identifies a certain risk of further deferrals beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2599	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2602	A lot has already been said in this matter, so I take the floor just for a brief explanation of vote. I want to take the opportunity to commend the comments of the Christian People's Party in the vote. If the Left had sat in the committee, we would have agreed on this. We therefore vote in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party in the vote. In brief: The left is of course stuck on cleaning in Mongstad and Kårstø, and we are stuck on cleaning from day one on new plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2611	Report. Paragraph 9 provides a broad review of national and international CO2 management. The work at Mongstad is central to government policy and forms the main part of the communication. In Mongstad, we're doing a job that no one's ever done before. It requires that we do a proper basic work. The planning and preparation of large projects is demanding and changes will take place in the course of the project. The first step in Mongstad's work is the construction of the technology center. Planning and construction have already provided valuable knowledge. Testing starting next year will provide additional knowledge of CO2 capture. This will also include knowledge of amine emissions and potential health and environmental impacts. We believe and hope that there won't be negative health and environmental impacts of amine emissions to air, but we don't know. We're dependent on being safe about this. Research in recent years has acquired knowledge of the release and formation of amine products. Some of that knowledge is good news, but there is also a need for even more knowledge. We are therefore making a significant effort to ensure knowledge so that amine technology can be put into use within a safe environment and health. The full-scale plant in Mongstad is both a technological new crime and a gigantic industrial project. When we now open up to include more capture technologies than amines in the qualification process, we make adjustments to the project model at the same time. The qualification of capture technology shall take place prior to the design of the installation itself. It makes the project more robust. The technology qualification is estimated to last up to three years and the design phase to last around two years. This suggests that, with today’s information, we can provide an overall decision-making basis for the Stortinget by 2016. If a capture technology becomes sufficiently qualified in the past, this could contribute to faster progress. Efforts are being made to establish a solution for the transport and storage of CO2 to be in place at the start of the full-scale capture in Mongstad. Participation by industry is an ambition in this work. On 5 April, the State and Statoil signed the ‘Step 2 Development Agreement’. The agreement is a follow-up to the 2006 Implementation Agreement and regulates the rights and obligations of the State and Statoil in the planning phase for full scale CO2 management in Mongstad. The agreement describes the main features of the development and planning work that must be carried out in order to decide on the construction and operation of the fishing facility. The agreement is public and the main points of the agreement are referred to in the main notice. I would also like to explain the content of the agreement in the revised national budget. The second part of the Step 2 agreement, which shall regulate the development and operation phase, shall be concluded at a later stage. It is the joint objective of the parties that this agreement be concluded by the end of 2013. I also want to start a work that will look into the potential for CO2 management beyond the work done at Mongstad. The investigation will contribute to an up-to-date monitoring of the feasibility of full-scale CO2 management in addition to the project at Mongstad. My goal is that Gassnova should go into this work with an open mind and turn the stones that are necessary and useful. I believe it is natural that Gassnova has a dialogue with major industrial actors in this field in connection with the investigation. It is important to establish a good evaluation methodology and criteria for monitoring. Different geographical locations in Norway need to be assessed and compared methodologically. The OED is in the process of drawing up a mandate for this work. In this context, I have noted the Committee's comment on the possibilities for CO2 management in new gas power plants, existing gas power plants and industrial emissions. The Mongstad project is a political project. A few years ago, we thought it would be a good idea to set up a full-scale CO2 capture plant in Mongstad. It has proved to be both technically and economically demanding, but I am pleased that there is a full consensus on the Stortinget that the work done in Mongstad is important. The government is concerned that the capture and storage of CO2 will take place at the lowest possible cost, and I believe that a broader technology qualification cycle for Mongstad, along with the Gassnova investigation, will now facilitate the achievement of actors with the best and most cost-effective technology. Let me conclude by congratulating the Committee and the rapporteur on what I see as a coherent and good attitude. I think that's important, not least because it's part of giving the predictability that this type of project depends on having to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2675	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2678	Gassnova's investigation should look at alternative technologies, and that's good, it's a step in the right direction. But what the government has said is that this investigation should go parallel to the technology qualification in Mongstad, and it is estimated to last until 2014. We have sent written questions to try to clarify what this means, compared to other places in the world where you can do full-scale cleaning projects. But the answers have been very diffuse, and it bears witness that the government, when it answered, did not quite know what it wanted. I hope that the Council of State can now elaborate a little bit more: can we expect that, for example. Industrial Power More and Siemens, or Hammerfest Energy and Sargas, or other actors, come on the track and say that we are willing to build full-scale cleaning? 'No cure, no pay', i.e., if they succeed, it's a pleasure for everyone, if they get some kind of compensation, if they don't get it, it's at their own risk. Will this be open before 2014, or has the government tied up on all alternative projects until at least 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2685	To make it clear, we estimate that the technology qualification cycle will take three years. If it takes less time, it will be a pleasure for the project and will enable a faster realization. As I also said in my post, I believe it is natural – with the work Gassnova is now going to do – that you go wide, quality assurance of all interesting projects, all interesting technologies, and see what is possible. What remains, however, is that Mongstad should be implemented. Any other project will be added to the project at Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2692	Nevertheless, we understand that the Council of State is right that under no circumstances is it relevant for the government, for example. looking into the realisation of Industrial Power More and Siemens’ projects before 2014? The council itself, when he was a staging representative, stressed that gas power plants in central Norway are part of the solutions. Former Minister of Energy Odd Roger Enoksen had even gas power plants and cleaning as part of his solution to the power situation in Central Norway as early as 2006. And so here it's a clean-up technology, but there's a need to clarify how the state should contribute in relation to the extra costs that it entails. It is important for those actors who can actually contribute to strengthening CO2 clean-up in Norway that they know what they have to deal with. If the government believes that no project will be assessed until Gassnova has done its – and it will be in 2014 – then it is a good signal. It's a bad signal at my discretion, but it's still very clear what the government really means. Can the Council confirm whether I still have things right, or will he elaborate a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2702	I'm not sure if what I said was very unclear, but I'll take it one more time: what's solid is that we're now going into a period of up to three years where we're going to qualify different technologies. Some of that work is going to happen at Mongstad, at the test centre, and with the actors already known there. Then Gassnova is going to have a mandate where I say it's natural, and it's in line with a unanimous attitude from the committee, that one goes out wide to see which technologies exist in the market, whether they keep what they promise, and whether there are some of the technologies with which it's natural to go further. In that case, there will be something that the government will take up and report back to Stortinget in a matter of its own. What is established is that Mongstad is to be implemented and that any installations to be carried out beyond it are in addition to and not in place of Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2707	I understood to the council that any new projects had to be based on a technology that was first quality assured at Mongstad after three years. It is well in that way the hook on the door of a gas power plant with cleaning in Elneswagen, so it was in and separately elucidating, though not particularly encouraging. I share the ambition of the Council of State that we should clean Mongstad – full scale – but is there any limit to what full scale cleaning of Mongstad can cost before the Council of State puts the project on hold? And is the cost that the government estimates, 20-25 billion. kr, within or outside that limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2714	At first it would have been nice if the representative Astrup hadn't put words in my mouth, because I didn't mean to say what he said I had said. I believe that we are now going into a work where we are going to qualify a technology, and some of that work is going to happen in Mongstad. We know that there are other things happening elsewhere in the world. It would be very strange if we did not draw that knowledge into the further work and into the decision-making processes that are going to take place in Norway. As for what's the limit of the final cost: well, that limit is the size that's going to draw. The government has said that we will provide a decision-making basis for the Storting in 2016, as it looks today. Then it will be up to Stortinget to say whether you want to implement it or not. It's the Storting that's granting authority. Of course, our goal is clear, and that is to bring down the price. For this, it is necessary to be applicable not only in Norway but also in other parts of the world. Let me conclude by saying that, as the Committee now states, there is going to be a higher price of... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2721	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2724	Let me first complain to the Council of State if I have misunderstood him. He repeated the answer twice, and then I thought I had understood, but it was above this representative's ability to take over what the council said. I'm sorry. When it comes to the answer, I see that the Council of State – if he can confirm it – says yes to the possibility of cleaning up other gas plants in Norway before three years, and without the technology being quality-proof in Mongstad. In that case, it is positive. Let me also ask the Council one more time if it is such a cost of 25 billion. kr in the opinion of the Council of State is acceptable for the purification of Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2731	To take the first one: I hope we now agree on what I said and not. In fact, it is up to everyone to apply to build gas power plants in Norway. It's this government for as long as you clean from day one. What we have committed ourselves to being part of and funding, on the other hand, is the implementation of the testing centre and the qualification program at Mongstad. In addition to that, I have now announced that Gassnova will go into its further work on a broad mandate, a wide range of technologies, and that is knowledge that we all benefit from. In terms of my goals and the government's goals with Mongstad, it's implementing the project. It is the Stortinge that will take the big and final assessment on the basis of a decision-making basis that we do not yet have. My ambition is to bring down the price, and then we have to assess when we are there, what is proper or not. It may be a reasonable sum, if that means solving the global climate challenges. If you could solve Mongstad, it's at least the subject of more debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2738	All the representatives of the government parties have emphasized CCS in their speeches as an important tool in the world's dew in view of the climate. The Council of State said that cleaning is central to government policy, but the Council of State also said that what we're doing in Mongstad, nobody has done before us. No, no one has done this before us, and that's why it was a moon landing, but a moon landing is uncertain. Governments have now put technology solutions into place in line, but my question is whether the Council of State believes that we have cleared Mongstad by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2744	What we are now reporting is that we are going to provide a decision-making basis for the Stortinget in 2016. Then it has to be decided to be built, and then we have to implement a full scale project. But to put it completely in place: our clear ambition and our clear goal is that this facility should be built, that it should be built on Mongstad, and that it should be built as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2749	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2754	The full-scale CO2 management notification gives a good account of the status of CO2 management operations in Norway. The development of CO2 management technologies will be crucial if we are to be able at all to slow down the increasing emissions of greenhouse gases. It's a pleasure, I think, to record that the Progress Party is within the Committee's comments. In this way, the Progress Party also agrees that the increase in climate emissions is one of the most important challenges and threats facing the future, and that we need to do something about it. Norway is in charge of taking responsibility for developing important technologies for CO2 management, and I am proud of that. Well, that's the way technology doesn't evolve overnight. It shows us the experience of Mongstad. Although the process of technology development has not gone as painlessly as many had hoped, it is important to keep to our goal that full scale sewage treatment plants in Mongstad will provide unique experience in establishing CO2 capture at already existing gas power plants. The world needs this technology. I record that some people are planning to move the technology project from Mongstad to Industrikraft Møre's plans in Elnesvågen in Møre and Romsdal. I am to realize the gas power plant Elnesvågen, but I believe it must be done without completing the project at Mongstad. That's why I'm happy that the government is opening up to develop more technologies in the testing center at Mongstad. I think this will initiate broad cooperation with several actors, which in turn can help to speed up the implementation of several full-scale CO2 projects, including the industrial power plant Møre. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State said both in its article and in the line change. I am also pleased that the government and Stortinget have great ambitions to reduce CO2 emissions. This means that industry is developing technologies to reduce CO2 emissions. An example is the car industry, another example is the technology development at Hydro. Hydro works systematically to reduce emissions of dangerous substances to the environment and health into air and water, while being aware of their target energy efficiency. Now Hydro has an interesting project going on, where the goal is to capture all of the CO2 from the electrolysis process in the production of aluminium. Once this technology is in place, aluminium produced on pure hydropower will be carbon-neutral. That will be a great step forward. However, the development of new technologies would never have come if the authorities had not required the reduction and clean-up of environmentally and health-threatening emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2798	The government and Stoltenberg's lunar landing project, which was announced with fire and bram during the New Year's Eve in 2007, has met major challenges and appears more and more as impracticable both technically and economically. Some have even characterized it as a solid political belly puzzle. That the challenges would be large, one knew beforehand, but when the project is not feasible within the given framework, one should start looking for other options. When the SINTEF Group Director, Torstein Haarberg, in the Address Paper on 13 November 2010, says that the government should abandon the plans for a full-scale CO2 treatment plant in Mongstad and that the project can be made better and cheaper in Central Norway, a listener should listen to the Council. Haarberg knows the technology, as at SINTEF it is being researched on just the cleaning technology that is intended to be useful at the gas power plant in Mongstad. The head of SINTEF says that a scarcely one finds a more expensive place to build full-scale sewage treatment plants than exactly Mongstad. It must be allowed to question the wisdom of building the first full-scale capture plant for CO2 from gas power in a place where there are at the same time a number of factors that make it both technologically complex and very expensive. Let me stress that there is a cross-political consensus that the technology centre – TCN – which will be a very important and necessary contribution towards a technological solution will be realised. The representative Torve misunderstands when she thinks that moving the Mongstad project means that the technology center shouldn't be realized. But as things stand now, it would be most reasonable to move the lunar landing project to Elnesvågen in More and Romesdal. Industrikraft Møre is ready to build, and Siemens promises the cleaning technology in place under the terms of «no cure, no pay agreement». Last, but not least, the current is desperately needed in this range. A plant in Elnesvågen can be completed before one has taken the first spade roof in Mongstad, so now the government and the government should know its visit time and contribute to the construction of a gas power plant with full CO2 cleaning where possible and where the need is greatest. Today, I received an e-mail from eleven spokesmen at Nordmøre, asking for the Ironman project to be implemented. This will provide 120 jobs in Northern Ireland. They can probably look forward to this government's energy policy, even with a stream as a government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2818	A few weeks ago, I was together with three other storage representatives at the industrial plant at Mongstad. It is impressive to get there and see this diverse and high-tech industrial area, which every two days around the year beggars strongly for value creation and jobs both in Hordaland and in the country otherwise. The visit list also included Technology Centre Mongstad. Today we handle Report. Article 9 on full scale CO2 capture. But the cause also has a thorough mention of the technology center, and I want to benefit from just pointing to the amazing and innovative project that TCM is. I have often wondered about the criticism that has come against this project. I think this criticism has been completely unthinkable, and that he has often witnessed a lack of knowledge and, in some cases, cheap rhetoric. It has been manufactured as if gaining knowledge and trying out new technology, which we are now doing at Mongstad, is completely in vain and failed. There is no item to remove from the truth. That it's often the media that comes with this criticism is incomprehensible, at least to me. We build this centre because we want to lead the fight against climate change and the challenges associated with meeting the energy needs in the world. This is the foundation for the capture and storage of CO2. Through knowledge and experience gained from our own projects, we in Norway will be able to be a leading country in this context. TCM is the largest centre in the world for testing and improving CO2 capture technology. When we now use 5,200 million. kr – or if it should now become like the representative of Astrup previously indicated: 6 500 million. kr – for this project, yes, it must be the largest and most daring environmental technology effort in our part of the world. I am therefore pleased that, in its comments, the Committee underlines the central role played by TCM in developing commercial CO2 cleaning technology. The technology that is now being developed should be a key in the fight against CO2 emissions – not just in Norway, but worldwide. Let's all help them close up with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2842	Full-scale cleaning of the Mongstad thermal power plant is a boost for unparalleled industrial research in Norway. This is a project that I've been following very closely through the different phases and under different governments. When I was rapporteur in the host municipality, this was a large part of my working day. Progress towards solutions for technology development and security of existing industries was first achieved with Stoltenberg I. The Mongstad refinery has over time been Norway’s largest CO2 emission point. The refinery, before the thermal power plant was built, was partly based on technology developed in the early 1970s. A refinery uses a lot of energy in the production, a lot in the form of heat. Mongstad produced the heat in oil-fired boilers. Gas power plants producing electricity have a relatively cosy ‘waste product’, and it is heat – heat-smooth. In the conversion of Mongstad, the old oil-fired boilers were replaced by heat from the energy plant. The energy plant supplies energy to the refinery, both in the form of electricity and heat, and it supplies electricity to Do and into the local network. The energy plant is now in operation to deliver flue gas to the TCM. The flue gas may be of different quality, with high CO2 content and low CO2 content. It makes it very suitable for research. The project is carried out in what is described as a hot installation — it is in operation. This presents specific challenges that need to be addressed in the course of the process. In order to achieve the overall CO2 reduction targets globally, it is essential to find technologies that can be used in existing installations. The IEA estimates are in need of approx. 3000 full scale CO2 treatment plants by 2050. Many of these necessarily need to be built on existing coal and gas power plants. This is why solutions need to be developed that can easily be built into power plants in operation. The right-hand side now wants to consider moving the full-scale cleaning according to the no cure – no pay principle and the cheapest solution. They argue that it will be cheaper to do so in new installations. Yes, much as possible, but if we do, we lose important knowledge of how this can be solved for plants that are in operation, and it is those that need to be cleaned. The right-hand output of moving the full-scale project breaks down the competence environment that is now being built around the TCM, where research and industrial construction are not only organisational but actually physically co-located for once. Locally, I would like to point out that agreements on the use of CO2 for industrial development have already been drawn up, and that is to convert CO2 from waste and an industrial resource problem. If we move the full-scale clean-up, Norway will lose the positive ring-effects. There is therefore a full scale cleaning project to be carried out in Mongstad. That's when you spend the big money on the big challenges, where it's the most daunting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2883	I have to put the case rapporteur's hat away a little and be a pure opposition politician. I get a little provoked when the representative, Rommetveit, later on, like it's not knowledgeable to criticise this project. It's historyless to claim something like that, is my claim. I have been the case rapporteur all four times this case has been in Stortingen since 2007 until now. The government's sales brochure in this case has not corresponded to the product they have supplied. Then it's actually real and in place to give criticism. That doesn't mean that one is against the project, but one criticises the way the government has handled this. There are some of us who think it's legitimate to respond when the government says they're going to spend 6.5 billion. NOK on a project that they sold in at a price of 1.2 billion. kr. We're going to have to make room for 6.5 billion. kr is little money, but it's five times more expensive than one promised to start with. There are some of us who think it legitimate to respond when a project reaches a There's a significant difference, and I think it's legitimate to criticise it. That doesn't mean we're against the project. I did a good job of explaining that in the beginning. It is not new that this plant is a hot plant, i.e. an existing refinery. There is nothing new that there are health challenges. There is nothing new that it is a large-scale project that has never been done before. It was also very well known when the government boasted in 2007, that this should be in place in 2014. It's also part of the story that Rommetvei has to take with him. This case shows, among other things: e.g. SV's flight into politics. Where the representative Serigstad Valen now refers to the government's changes as wise, the representatives Sørensen and Thorkildsen were completely in Harnish when the Progress Party claimed that the same was sensible solutions in 2007 and 2009. Tove-Lise Torve talks about industrial power mortar having to be realized without ending the TCM. There's no one here that argues that we're just doing IKM and not the test center. Nor is it that if you actually say that Industrikraft Møre and Siemens can start building a full-scale sewage treatment plant in Møre and Romsdal in 2011, you will destroy an environment in Mongstad, which is not planned to be completed before 2016. It just means that you're accelerating a bet, making more people work with this nationally than you're doing now. I don't see it as negative. What I see as negative is that this government has such doubts about Mongstad that when there are other actors like Sargas, Siemens and others who say that we can take risks here, but we have to know that there is a carrot at the other end, the government still says no, this doesn't give you answers until 2014. That's what's worrying here. The government boasts so amazingly of what they're going to do, but when there are other and more practical solutions, it sits still and hides behind Gassnova. There is actually a blue government in 2013 that can get ahead of this, instead of sitting and waiting until 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2904	Let me first say to the representative Rommetvei that the price difference is due to VAT, so you can say that the money finds its way back to the state – parts of them at least. So to the representative Tove Linnea Brandvik and others who have also claimed that the right side wants to leave Mongstad, move the lunar landing project, and that it will break up the technology environment at the technology center in Mongstad. I believe that is based on a basic error conclusion. Point 1: Our ambition to clean Mongstad is firm, but it can't be at any cost. It is precisely here that the technology centre plays such a crucial role. That's exactly why we choose to spend 6.5 billion. kr and accepts the cost excesses, to which the representative of Solvik-Olsen referred, because we believe that that effort can help bring down the price of full-scale cleaning and thus make it realistic to clean Mongstad. It's not realistic to clean Mongstad for 25 billion. kr, full scale. That price must be lowered if the project is to be relevant to other cleaning projects in the rest of the world. To the fact that it would be more relevant to build retrofits versus to build new plants, I would say it is worth reminding that in China a coal-fired power plant is being built this week. That it would not be positive to install cleaning from day one in new plants and that Norway could be first in the world to build a full-scale sewage treatment plant on a gas power plant – it would be fantastic and a contribution to technology development without equal. It could be done before you stick the spade in the ground at a full-scale plant in Mongstad. It's also worth taking into account in that context. So the representative Serigstad Valen was worried that there would probably be cost overruns there too. Well, if a private operator wants to take that risk and say that fine taxpayers, the state, take 2 billion. kr of the bill, and if it is more expensive than that, the private commercial operator must take the downside itself. If someone is willing to take that risk, why should we stand in the way? Then we are back to the somewhat vague response of the Council of State, which was at least difficult for this representative to understand. Is it such that the State will help to cover cleaning costs in addition to the quota price for projects other than Mongstad, or is it not that the State will do so? This is a crucial question. In the future, it will be absolutely necessary to clean almost all point emissions in Norway. Will the State contribute to this as long as it is not commercially viable and the technology is not available, or will they not? We didn't get any better at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2917	I would like to apologise to the representative, Solvik-Olsen, if I have fired too much. I have followed a little more peripherally here debates on Mongstad before, and that would have been a slightly different atmosphere. My point here was, and I also said, that when there's so much money being invested in an environmental technology project, we all have to be there and help it out and do it well, just because it's spent so much money. I'm aware that 5.2 billion. kr is very much money, and 6.5 billion. kr is even more money. I can see that. What was, like, my main thing, was to praise the committee that they're gathering in the comments that TCM is very good. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2924	I would like to take this opportunity to give a little feedback to the representative of Astrup on what to do with developing prototypes. As far as we can see, everyone has confirmed that it is far more demanding to build this in a hot plant, i.e. in a plant that is in operation, and that is why it is important to be able to develop technology in the type of plant that is reasonable enough to enable it to be implemented on works around the world that are already in operation. In fact, I think that the representative Astrup is giving that reason very well himself. Today, a power plant is being built in China per day. If we're going to target the future solutions to get rid of this here, it's actually a big point to be able to clean them as well. I guess that's probably the technology that Norway needs first and foremost to make sure that we can solve. I very much appreciate that there is so much support for Mongstad. That's how I started with Mongstad as early as 2004–2005. This has not been a simple job in ensuring clean-up and safe technology development. So having a unanimous growth behind the project delights a gas-power fighter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2932	I will make another attempt to explain our position to the representative of Astrup, and I must regret at the same time that it is obviously unclear what was said. But what the Storting has commented on, and what the government has commented on, is the construction of the test center in Mongstad. It is now a run to work out a decision-making basis for a full-scale sewage treatment plant in Mongstad, and it is an ambition to build a full-scale sewage treatment plant in Mongstad. Then Gassnova will also have a mandate. I've today announced that we're going to look at the overall comments of the committee, which means that you're going to go out wide to see which technologies, in addition to those we're testing out and running forward in Mongstad, which it might be relevant to use. I have not mentioned actors by name, but it is clear, from my perspective, that Siemens is an interesting actor in this way. In addition to that, there are other interesting things happening around the world that I think it's interesting for Norway, for Gassnova, to keep an eye on, to take advantage of the knowledge accumulated on a global basis. What we have said, however, is that we have to pay to drive forward, and as the Storting has commented, and joined, is what is happening in Mongstad. So any project that comes in addition to Mongstad, we haven't said we're going to pay for it. In that case, it will require an allocation and a wish on the part of Stortinget. For this reason, it is worth noting that neither does the opposition make proposals in relation to this setting to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2939	Nikolai Astrup has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2942	It was enlightening to hear the Council of State. My original understanding of what the Council of State meant is clear, namely that the State will not contribute financially to the clean-up of any new gas power plant, will not contribute to financial support for clean-up beyond the Mongstad period. It's clarifying. But it is by no means ambitious on behalf of climate to go as narrowly as it is. If this is the case, as I almost hear the Council of State suggest, that it is only on a proposal from the Stortinget, it is possible to resolve it, because then we can make a proposal from the Stortinget that the State will contribute beyond the quota price to the purification of a new gas power plant in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2947	I have often expressed support and a positive attitude towards our new oil and energy minister. I hope that the Council of State holds the opinion that he had as a staging representative, namely that gas power plants are also good in Norway, because we are proud of our gas also in Norway. The reason why there is no opposition proposal to say yes to several gas power plants with treatment in addition to Mongstad and that the State should contribute is that it has already been promoted – that is the point here. Congratulations and good Christmas cards can be sent to Sargas and Siemens, and we do that all the time – or at least every Christmas. The point is, they have to get money for it to be interesting. Getting hierarop from the sideline helps very little when there is money that stops. When we do not make proposals, it is simply because we have already proposed them in this big year. And we can't promote the same proposal multiple times. When it has been downhearted, it has been downhearted. At least the councils have my full support that he can take his innermost dreams and try to realize them, because we know that it will be an important part of the solution in Middle Norway – at least when you read what Odd Roger Enoxen said in the Address Paper on 25 November 2006. He then said that renewable energy, line and energy saving are needed, but to solve the situation, one cannot avoid including a gas power plant with purification. The state was supposed to contribute financially to this, to get the power situation right. The Council of State has the full support of the opposition to extend this to Siemens before 2014. What worries me is that someone uses the Gassnova study, which is going to go in parallel with the technologist qualification. Maybe we'll get there already in 2012, if we're lucky, but the government itself says 2014. It means three lost years for actors who are ready to get started today. That's what's important. I don't see the point that Gassnova should check the quality of everyone else's investment wishes if they themselves are willing to take that risk. It is not that Gassnova necessarily sits with the final phase of which technologies can be realized and not. In fact, it is possible that those sitting in Sargas have done things that no one else has thought about and has invented the powder again, or that they in Siemens have done it. But it may also be that they have not done so. That's why we're saying "no cure, no pay," precisely because we're not going to gamble with taxpayers' money on crazy lots of projects. But if we can make a progress here that goes faster than what we've planned in Mongstad, we should be happy about it. That is why I refer to what the Committee said in 2006-2007 – then I think the Council of State put in the Committee: ‘The Committee asks the Government to facilitate the development of further CO2 management projects, where technology development, demonstration and qualification of Norwegian technology can start rapidly.’ Sargas is such an example. So we've been doing that for five years now. The government has all the powers of the opposition. I hope the Council of State also gets it from its own in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2970	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2986	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e2995	A stable and secure supply of power is crucial – both for households and for business. For the Workers' Party and the Government, security of supply is an important pillar of energy policy. Security of supply also comes up in one of the issues we will discuss later this evening, namely the Hardanger case. This winter we have, and still have, a difficult situation in the power market. We've had low filling levels in the water reservoirs and cold weather. The policies of the Workers' Party and the Government to improve the situation in the power market are three-fold: We have to produce more power. We need to upgrade the power grid and build new power lines. We must bet on energy savings. The government's investment in automatic meter reading is also a positive contribution. When it comes to producing more power in Norway, I would particularly like to draw up the agreement with Sweden on green certificates. Together, we're going to produce 26 TWh new renewable energy. This is a major contribution to the power situation, and it will benefit Norway. New production was authorised for 6 TWh per year from 2006 to 2009. It's twice as much as in the previous period. We have doubled the processing capacity of the NVE, and it will contribute to a shorter procedure in such cases. The NVE has also been told to give priority to areas with power deficits. Strengthening the power system is central to improving security of supply. I am therefore very pleased that the government has made a good decision to put in place such a strengthening. The power line from Sima to Samnanger in Hordaland we're going to discuss later today – so now I'm just going to say that that line will strengthen the power situation in the mountain area. The government's confirmation of the decision was very positive. Last week, the government took the first partial decision on the power line from Ørskog to Sogndal. This force line is very important to improve the power situation in Central Norway. For the Workers' Party and the Government, it is important that the line be put in place as soon as possible. The government has invested heavily in energy efficiency. Enova has supported projects both in households and in industry. From 2006 to 2011, it is set at over 8 billion. kr for a commitment to energy efficiency through Enova. From 2006 to 2009, Enova has supported projects that will save 8.3 TWh per year. This is an incredibly important contribution. The government has reduced a sample to look at the long-term development of energy policy in Norway. The Committee shall be composed of representatives of the relevant actors in the sector and shall look at the development of the energy sector by 2030 and 2050. Based on the sample report, the government comes up with a big deal about the theme. This gives us the opportunity to take the big debate on energy policy in this Chamber. We have put in place some important decisions for the development of the force situation. For the Workers' Party and the Government, the need for security of supply, good conditions both for households and not least for industry and the aim of a single power price in Norway is a guiding principle of energy policy. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3035	This debate is a classic, to the delight of new listeners. Unfortunately, one must say, for this is something that we should have better control of than what we have. The force situation has been strained. The winter prices on electricity will last the whole year, we could read in the paper today, and that is really the character book of a faulty energy policy for the last five and a half years. Last year, on March 3, 2010, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom said in Question Time: ‘So I believe that we politicians must take responsibility for development – whether we are in this government or in the previous one – and not owe it to a slightly diffuse market. This is a well-regulated system in which politicians sit and are responsible for the most.’ That is the basis for this debate. So this isn't just a market that's gone crazy on its own. This is not something that has happened suddenly; this is something that we politicians have had the chance to rule very, very much. That is why there is also a debate that needs to be taken into account in this Chamber, when we know that the power situation is still strained and we are moving towards winter prices all year round. Tor-Arne Stroem from the Workers' Party said that the solution here is more force, more encircle and more line. The same thing we could read when the representative, Borten Moe, said in the class struggle in August 2006 that the power situation was going to be a topic at the Center Party's group meeting, because now something had to happen. And it had to be built more power and more line and run more one-way. The solution here is not new, it's just that you've done it in an inadequate way. Then I am not saying that nothing has happened, but that has not happened enough in relation to the needs that we know is there. It actually shows how much money Enova has – so far pleasant for Enova – but that is really the price of bad conscience. Enova would not have had the sum of money to spend if we had got into the policy that everyone really wants initially, namely green certificates, from 2006. But I'm optimistic about a new state council. He has new opportunities. He can turn the stones into the ruins of the energy policy he has taken over – and there are many stones to turn around. He's letting go of the fight if there's going to be an energy message. The previous government council thought it was just paperwork and unnecessary bureaucracy, which he wrote in a chronicle that was published on the Central Party website on 31 August 2009. Now we know the government doesn't mean it anymore, and that's good. Then the government will boast that now the line Ørskog–Fardal will be in place, hopefully in 2015 – that's great. The sad thing is that when Statnett was in Ålesund in May 2006, they said that the line should be in place in 2011. Now we're in 2011, and now we're talking about 2015. There is once again a character of government policy: delay and delay. New power generation is important, renewable energy is important. I trust that the Council of State here will fight for a stronger commitment to hydropower than we have seen not only in terms of upgrading and expanding existing works, but also in terms of risking looking at new power plants and larger power plants. I hope the Council of State will do as he said in the Address Paper last autumn: delegate more of the concession authorities for small power plants to local authorities. And I hope that the Council of State, when green certificates are started, will ensure that we do not get a plug in the concession system that causes the hydropower to lie down, as the wind power passes through – or where, unfortunately, wind power can also remain lying. I hope the Council of State will do what they said in the Address Paper last autumn, namely to use the mobile gas power plants, if they can affect price. I fully accept that in some cases, when there are no bottleneck problems, they won't necessarily mean much for price, it can mean something for how we rationalize the water. But I hope you will at least follow up that when there are bottlenecks, the mobile gas power plants will be used more offensively than is the case today. Then I hope the Council of State makes sure that the government gets clarity about what they mean by the powerline policy. I think everyone agrees and can see that there has been too little investment in power lines in recent years, but it's a little bit because the NVE's income system actually rewards those who don't invest in power lines, but just maintains what's already there. Then it is actually a political responsibility and not the responsibility of the network companies. So I hope he agrees with the government on what you want with foreign tables. Are we going to be Europe's battery, or are we going to hold back? There are two different directions. In the case of AMS, i.e., two-way communication, it was also lifted up like a shell for a lot of things to happen. I don't think anyone in this room is opposed to two-way communication, but let's not exaggerate the effects. It is possible that it will take 20 years for us to get the investment back at all. Then there is not a measure that reduces electricity billing, but it is a measure that makes you more confident that you pay the right amount of electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3064	The last two winters we have experienced a much more difficult supply situation than normal. According to Statnet, low rainfall, problems with nuclear power plants in Sweden and high power consumption have been the main causes of strenuous power supply and high electricity prices. Much more than usual, we have experienced how vulnerable our water-based power supply is. As long as the hydropower is the dominant part of Norwegian power generation, we must accept that we will periodically experience great variations between the availability and consumption of power, as the Council of State correctly writes in its letter to the Committee. He is also quite right that it is decisive that we have a framework that enables us to deal with these types of short-term power situations without causing significant consequences for consumers of power. Right is therefore pleased that the government has finally decided to send an energy message to the Stortinget. The last was the then state council Einar Steensnæs that presented to the Stortinget, in December 2003. It's a long way from a scandal that it's taken so long. Statnet suggests that this winter’s magazine filling was even lower than it was in 2003, in addition to the fact that current consumption is now much higher. However, when the situation is no longer dramatic today, it comes about that we have a better relationship with the rest of the world and thus greater possibilities for importing power, as well as a gas power plant in Kårstø. Against that background, it is a great paradox that today we have an energy minister who will limit the development of the transfer capacity to the rest of Europe. The oil and energy minister will thus make us even more dependent on rain and wind here in the country. He also represents a party that, in its time, went out of government because of its resistance to the gas power plant at Kårstø. While the then State Council Steensnæs presented a big message on security of supply, today's oil and energy ministers have signalled a policy that will weaken our security of supply. The right is fundamentally inconsistent with the Minister of Oil and Energy on this issue. We think we need more, not fewer foreign lines. It will strengthen our security of supply, because then we can import power produced with other energy sources when it's dry and cold here in the country, and there's little water in the warehouse, as we've done the last two winters. It goes without saying that there are limits to how long we can take off the reserves in the reservoir. It is right that Norway has been engaged in the liberalisation of the power market that the energy laws brought with it. The fact that we have an open market in the Nordic region, as well as a power exchange with the rest of Europe, makes us less vulnerable, because we have access to a larger market and more differentiated production. At the same time, our power producers need a market to export to in periods of surplus power. The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party contains many good points to which the Right will join. The right agrees on the need to strengthen the domestic transmission link as well as to strengthen Nordic cooperation through the establishment of new transmission lines to the rest of the world. We are also some in the effort to produce new renewable energy in Norway through a green certificate. We are quite a few in that the authorities have to say yes to the construction of a new gas power plant in central Norway with CO2 handling, where the State covers the extra costs of capture of CO2 in addition to the quota price and takes responsibility for the transport and storage of CO2. The right also fully agrees that there is a need for significant efforts to improve energy efficiency, and that as soon as practicable, advanced measuring systems should be introduced by electricity customers. However, the right does not agree with all of the proposals. It shall apply, inter alia, to: to introduce a parallel to KILE costs if a power company is unable to deliver electricity. It will be a retreat when it comes to energy laws. It cannot simply transfer the principle of KILE costs from the network to power generation. Unlike power generation, which is part of a market with several competing operators, the network operators are in a monopolistic situation. It is therefore not right to compare production and network in this way, and in the view of the Right, it would be negative for the power customers. In order to prevent the emptying of the warehouse, with very high electricity prices as a consequence, the transfer link to the rest of the world should be strengthened so that more power can be imported when Norway is in a deficit situation and exported power in an excess situation. Power generation in Norway should also be strengthened, inter alia: by means of a green certificate and a shorter procedure for concession requests for power generation and transmission systems. This must also be facilitated in the new energy message promised once in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3109	Initially, I have to say that it is interesting to hear the Council of State being lectured on the security of supply and the power crisis by a representative who was far on the way to the Stortinget on his resistance to new transmission capacity to Central Norway. In addition, criticism of the Council of State is unfair, precisely because a number of things are being done under the Council of State to prevent future power crises in Norway. And then in this debate, as in many previous debates, I would point out that a kilowatt hour savings is always the best and cheapest kilowatt hour. Enova’s massive increase in resources has been made available under this government, and has been very important both for industry and for households. Over 8 B.C.E. kr has been granted in the last five years. It is not about ‘bad conscience’, as the representative Solvik-Olsen claims, but about a great commitment. The amazing projects we have, for example. has been obtained and implemented in cooperation with the industry, is about something quite different from the scope of the green certificates. There is also a lot about renewable energy. The processing time per case in the NVE has been reduced. In the period 2006 to 2009, authorisations were granted for almost twice as much new production as under the Bondevik II Government. In 2010, the NVE decided four times as many cases as in 2004 — much as a result of the policy of the red-green government. Enova has granted over 2 billion. kr for wind projects and over 200 mill. kr to projects for demonstration of new technologies. The Nea–Järpstream is in place, with the increases in capacity it provides. The government has announced a new energy message, and I notice that some in the opposition regret that a thorough professional work will be done in advance of the message. They say that -- I'm glad we're doing a thorough job to get us an overview of the country's energy situation in the coming decades, because it's a big and very important debate. A particularly pleasant measure, I believe, is the acceleration of automatic meter reading. In itself, this means more accurate reading of power consumption, but it does not at least give the possibility of the Progress Party not talking about, namely power management on a completely different level than today. It could contribute to reduced power peaks, lower consumption and lower electricity bills for people. I note that the Progress Party hassles with this instrument both in the hall and in its comments, and I recommend them a trip to Malvik, where the local e-works demonstrate a completely different potential in this technology than the Progress Party later to realize. In this technology, there is also room for – whether Stortinget should be so shown in the future to support SV’s wish to investigate it – a multi-price system on electricity. Then it's going to work. There is also reason to note the use of quotations by the opposition parties in the comments. Jens Stoltenberg is quoted from a newspaper clipping in 2002, where he says: ‘An oil and energy minister shall implement short-term and long-term measures if electricity prices make such jumps as we have seen over the past few weeks: [[...]] But that's exactly what this government is now facilitating and giving the opportunity to do. After all, the Minister of Oil and Energy has just outlined a number of short-term and long-term measures. Several of the suggestions put forward in this matter are things the government is already working well on. The Progress Party will decide – either the new and smart current meters seem to be a waste of money that only saves people what they claim is a fifty-lot a year, or they get support for exactly what Stoltenberg said in 2002 and what the government is now working on, in line with what the Prime Minister said at the time. The same can be said of the party of the proposers – either you take responsibility for the force situation when important balances are to be taken, or you do not. When the Christian People's Party ruled the Ministry of Oil and Energy, they threw Mid-Norway into a serious power crisis by going in for the construction of the Worm Lange, in spite of SV's and others' warnings about what this would do to the force situation in the region. Without this irresponsible decision, the situation in Central Norway could look quite different. It therefore bears the mark of indulgence when the Christian People's Party so strongly attacks the government in this matter, and they show that they have the grace of fear – the Christian People's Party's own role in the power crisis taken into account. But the gift of frenzy is certainly also a gift of mercy!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3131	The President has some doubts as to whether the ‘gift of grace’ is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3134	The government is very concerned with ensuring security of supply for electricity and preventing future power crises. We have a great deal of understanding of the challenge of high and unstable electricity prices for both business and households. We have just taken a number of measures to remedy the situation in both the short and long term and focus on the mountain area and central Norway, where the challenges are greatest. Efforts to ensure security of supply and to prevent future power crises need to be made from several angles. We need to produce more power, and housekeepers better with what we have. We need to ensure that the power comes out, and we need to be able to deal with short-term imbalances in the power system. The objectives of the centre party are sufficient power generation, security of supply and equal prices of power across the country. The centre party has worked hard to get through the agreement with Sweden on green certificates. It will lead to a strong recovery in the production of new renewable energy in both countries. The slumped water reservoirs regularly remind us of the need to produce more power, from both water, wind and bio. We have to use the force that we have, more rationally. Later today we will discuss how we can get the building mass to not only use less force, but in the long run also produce power itself. At the same time, there is much to be gained in improving the energy efficiency of the plant industry. We have also initiated measures that allow households to actively control their own power consumption, and thus have incentives for saving. Bets on AMS – automatic meter reading – which have been mentioned by several, are rolled as known only in Central Norway. The force must advance to the point where it is needed. That is why the Centre Party has stood by to realize the transfer link between Ørskog and Sogndal, and we are also impatient to have Sima – Samnanger completed. At the same time, we see that North Norway also needs better networks. Statnett is planning to invest 40 billion. kr in network expansion, and it's not that small. As we have stressed in previous debates on the matter, we will review the framework conditions for the decommissioning of the power stations. We want the government of the new agreement with Enova to consider changing the objective of also allowing for the strengthening of the supply balance in areas with a strenuous power situation. If the oil and gas industries are to expand production in deficit years, they shall contribute to the financing of development costs as well as more production into the system. The theme addressed by the proposers is large and complex and therefore requires a variety of measures. Work on strengthening the power supply results. The government has reached many important milestones in energy policy. No later than 4 April of this year, a partial decision was taken in the construction of the power line between Sogndal and Ørskog. At the same time, there is a reduced range of energy to look at the long-term development of power and energy. The report of the committee will be important in the further work on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3151	In the last two winters, Norway has experienced a very difficult power situation with high electricity prices that varies according to where it lives. The population in Central Norway has experienced price peaks of DKK 12–14 per kilowatt hour of electricity at some times per day. The electricity bill for the last part of 2010 was the highest. Many power customers got twice the electricity bill at the same time last year. According to the last NVE report, the magazine filling in Norwegian water storage plants was at the end of week 13 18 p.p. That's 21.4 pst. Under normal, and 4 pst. below the lowest level ever previously measured. The government has set a new record. Increases in rainfall and snow smelting have slightly improved prospects, but Norway is still dependent on high imports of electricity, and we are very vulnerable to errors. The risk of streamration is not deflated. The last time Norway experienced a similar force situation was in the winter of 2002–03. At the time it was Einar Steensnees from the Christian People's Party who was Minister of Oil and Energy. He had to endure nostalgic criticism in Stortinget and in the media too high power prices. The state councils endured harsh criticism. The current Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg told Dagbladet on 16 December 2002: ‘I am shocked that Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs has shifted responsibility for the high electricity prices [[...]] SV and the Central Party put forward proposals in Stortinget in the winter to introduce requirements for the filling of warehouses in the hydroelectric power plants, thus preventing energy companies from selling electricity out of the country. Kristin Halvorsen said to NTB that ‘what is happening now is that the coldest right-wing policy is going right into the living rooms of people’. I find that creativity and the light solutions, I want to add, disappeared as dew for the sun – and well it is – at the moment the red-green went into the government offices. Where oil and energy ministers Einar Steensnæs replied with an energy message with concrete proposals for action the same year that the power crisis took place, today's government has blackened to change government councils. The Council of State Einar Steensnæs replied by facilitating green certificates, which were to be in place by 2006. Yes, we know the story – maybe 2012. State Council Steensnæs replied with the planning of new power lines for Bergen and Middle Norway. We know the answer – maybe 2012–2013. State Council Einar Steensnæs replied with two-way communication – yes, we know the answer once in a few years. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway now needs a binding plan to ensure security of supply for electricity and to prevent future power crises. We also need to review the Energy Act with a view to ensuring social control of the power market and to clarify political responsibility for security of supply. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should have overall responsibility for security of supply. An action plan for increased security of supply should focus on increased power generation, new power lines, stronger energy efficiency improvement – especially in the construction sector. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to put in place more transfer lines abroad to ensure both the import of electricity when we need it, and at the same time secure provision for surplus power when it rains a lot in the old country. The Christian People's Party also calls for the construction of a new gas power plant in central Norway, provided that the requirements for cleaning from day one are met, and that the State takes the bill for the sewage treatment plant. But this was clarified in the previous debate. Furthermore, I refer to the draft representative and also mention our proposal which has been promoted in the vote. Then to the representative Serigstad Valen who thinks I have a gift of mercy. Yeah, maybe I have some gifts. I don't know, but at least I know that the Christian People's Party has a gift in relation to the power of action, both when we sit in government and when we sit in opposition. It's the Christian People's Party calling to see now in today's government. We made proposals in 2002 and 2003, which are the same proposals that I expect the next speaker to repeat in his speech, because nothing has happened after five and a half years of majority rule. Nothing has happened in the time we have left behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3180	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3183	Like Solvik-Olsen, it strikes me that I've been on this before. It also struck me that we are discussing the snow that fell last year, both literally and metaphysically. But I look forward to an important debate on an important issue with Stortinget. The security of supply for electricity is about our basic ability to cover the consumption of electricity over time, i.e. evolution of production, consumption and transmission capacity. For the Norwegian hydropower system, this means that we need a power supply that is robust enough to withstand the wide variations we experience in weather conditions from year to year, in this case several years in a row. At the same time, security of supply depends on the organisation of power supplies in a way that enables us to deal with precipitation failures when such situations occur. In order to ensure a lasting security of supply of power at national and regional level, we need a long-term commitment to both: network development new power generation energy efficiency improvement Today, we see that several regions face challenges with sufficient production and transmission capacity. Network development has a crucial role to play in linking consumption and production across parts of the country. Here I would like to stress the importance of implementing the planned powerlines for the mountain area, central Norway and northern Norway, as well as some transfer capacity to the rest of the world. Sima-Samnanger shall enhance security of supply towards the Bergens region and facilitate the development of renewable energy in the region. The state network resumed construction work this month with a view to completing the link by the end of 2012. The government intervened in November 2010 in order to reach decisions on parts of the power line between Ørskog and Sogndal. This is necessary to maintain progress in the power line, while meeting local needs for further investigations and applications for alternative solutions. We have now taken a first part decision in the case, and we propose that a decision be taken for the rest of the power line during the year. The process thus allows for the completion of the power drive by the end of 2015. This also makes it possible to realise the potential for increased power generation in the range of 4 to 5 TWh. I also believe that network development in North Norway is necessary to improve security of supply in that part of the country, and to ensure supply for planned new power consumption from, among others. the petroleum industry. The removal of bottlenecks in the south-west network from Finnmark will also facilitate the increased exploitation of a large wind power potential in this region. Statnett has applied for a new 420 kV from Ofoten to Balsfjord and a new 420 kV from Balsfjord to Hammerfest. Hydropower has many advantages, but a challenge is that production varies considerably over seasons and years. This means that in periods we will have a profit on power, and in other periods we will have a deficit. In order to compensate for these variations, relations with the rest of the world are important. The countries around us have a broader and different composition of power generation than Norway has. Through the international connections, we can pull alternates and help each other when needed. No one disagrees. We've had long traditions for that. But this is a question where I want to warn against a black and white approximation, where you are either too everything or against everything, and make this question too simple a question. There are important balances that need to be made, and the Stortinget will have a rich opportunity to discuss and debate this later. The development of new power generation provides the basis for security of supply in the years to come. Norway and Sweden shall develop new renewable energy from 2012 until 2020 through joint electricity certificates 26.4 TWh. This represents 13 pst. of current total renewable production in the two countries. There is a formidable commitment to renewable power generation – a change of pace – we are now witnessing. In addition, we are in discussions with the European Commission on what objectives we should pursue in the wake of the renewable directive. We share the EU's ambitions for renewable energy, and we are committed to increasing our renewable share beyond the level in 2005. Much has also been done in the field of energy efficiency. Enova has expanded its framework considerably, and results are always delivered. I will end by saying that the government has announced that we are going to present a big message about energy policy. We're also going to want to discuss web policy with Stortinget. In this context, a wide range of complex energy sets are now being reduced to look at the long-term development of power and energy towards 2030 and 2050. This will be an important contribution, but I also want to say that we know many of the variables, and that we therefore deliver policies on all the important challenges on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3222	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3225	There has been a great deal of concern that the Minister said that cables to abroad should be cut in order to secure Norway's low and equal price of electricity. We know that there are major plans for the development of renewable energy in Norway. We know that there is a great potential for small power and other power generation, and we've seen in the last two years that we're very dependent on having imports from abroad to meet domestic needs. So my question to the Council of State is: is the Council willing to both gamble with our security of supply and not to exploit the potential for power generation by cutting cables abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3232	As a state councillor, I've never said that we should cut the cables to the rest of the world. I would assume that the representative refers to an opinion that was in the paper in 2006 – which is thus five years back in time – and to the extent that I as the Council of State have to say that I disagree with myself as a big-time representative, it had to be on that very point. Having said that, I also think that we should all be open and honest that this is not least a matter of dosage. It's not uninteresting whether we have ten connections with the rest of the world, or whether we have 100 connections with the rest of the world. It's also a question of which infrastructure we're willing to build at the back of these foreign connections, and what purpose are we going to serve? But just let me establish categorically: security of supply is something this government is never going to gamble with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3237	So if I understand correctly, it's not about a black and white approximation in terms of cables to the rest of the world, but it's a sensible approach to both what kind of power generation you have and what security of supply you want to achieve. And then I'm very happy about it, because it's been the Achilles heel in the rose that I've given to the Council of States before, but then we can sign it out and bet that he'd rather follow up the other offensive things he's said. However, I should have heard the visions of the Council of State regarding being Europe's battery – it was a key issue both for former Minister of Energy Åslaug Haga and for former Minister of Energy Terje Riis-Johansen. It was actually promoted as one of the most important things they would work for. The more we provide energy to the rest of the world than we do to our own needs. It will mean a robbery on its own hydropower for which our hydropower system today is not built. What visions and thoughts do you have in relation to Europe's battery?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3244	Let me start by saying that there is a very important problem that the representative Solvik-Olsen is travelling, and that it might be a little unappreciative to try to answer it adequately within 1 minute in a row change. But my starting point when we go into those debates – and I would also like to say that these are things that we are given the opportunity to discuss widely in the Stortinget – it is that there are Norwegian reasons that need to be taken care of, there is our need for security of supply, there is our need to have good access to power for consumers and industry, and it is to ensure power producers stable and good framework conditions that ensure the necessary investment, and then our regulatory capacity offers some exciting opportunities for countries in Europe that have completely different challenges. But we have to know what we're doing and go step by step.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3249	I assume that the Council of State believes that he and the government have the overall responsibility in terms of access to energy, including security of supply. The Council of State said in its intervention that the government is delivering policies in all the important areas. The government knows the variables. NVE says that in week 13, we had 21.4 pst. during normal filling of the warehouse. My question, then, is: What new action does the Council of State have as the responsible State Council for security of supply in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3258	We know the variables, that's absolutely correct, but not all of the variables we're controlling. And the amount of rainfall in those parts of the country where we have magazine and power production is one of the variables that we're not able to control. It would have been tempting to have that control, but for the time being no one has made constructive proposals on how to achieve it. So our answer to it is of course to make the Norwegian power supply system less dependent on variations in rainfall, although I think in a system like ours, we have to accept that power generation varies between wet and dry years. By and large, our hydropower system is a great joy and a great strength for Norwegian society. And then it's about the things I talked about: increasing transmission capacity, increasing production and increasing focus on how we manage those resources and use the current we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3263	Governments addressed this with variations in rainfall as a challenge. I fully agree with that. So the government itself has previously chosen to have mobile gas power plants as an important part of its preparedness. I disagree with the government in the order, that one rather should shut down industry than start up the mobile gas power plants. But can I nevertheless hope that the Council of State will stand by the prime minister of Borten Moe from last autumn, that the mobile gas power plants will be more offensive than they are today if they can help to influence the electricity prices in a region? I respect and accept that the Council of State would rather not use them if one sees that the bottleneck problem is not present, and thus does not significantly affect prices. But in some cases it can happen. It is not necessarily the case that there is a risk of going into black today that is underlying, but the desire to rationalize water and not least the desire to save electricity customers in a region at very high electricity prices as a result of a faulty energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3268	First, I must correct Mr Solvik-Olsen's last representative. It is not as a consequence of a faulty energy policy that we now have a low level of filling in our warehouses. It's because of the combination of low rainfall and very much cold, and therefore a little too high consumption. Then I expect that Solvik-Olsen does not have as the starting point for this debate that it is an end in itself to turn on the mobile gas power plants. You could say what you want, but they pollute something more than usual and have low efficiency. So there's something that we have to try to avoid. It is wrong that we are shutting down the industry. We use the option to buy energy options. In situations where the option is rationalization, i.e. forced shutdown, the rules are such today that we have the opportunity to run this reserve capacity. I hope we don't have to do that, that we get a supply system that's robust enough to prevent such situations from happening. However, should we get there, we will of course always discuss the merit of starting up, but the policy is therefore firm, not change... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3277	I have two questions for the Council of State. Governments have stated that he wants equal price of electricity across the country. Does he think it would weaken or strengthen security of supply? That was question 1. The EU also has a strong influence on Norwegian energy policy, and Norway’s self-imposed exclusion from the main political community in our part of the world does not, unfortunately, give us the same influence over the policies that the EU is formulating. But yet, question No. 2 to the Council of State: When can the Storting expect a clarification of what obligations are contained in the renewable directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3286	All of them first for this equal price. I think it's an unnatural starting point not to have as our goal that we should have equal price and equal security of supply in this country. If the Right believes that this is wrong, I look forward to presenting the reason why you want different prices, where you want people to pay more, and why you think it's right. I believe that Norway is a nation where we should strive to have a well-functioning electricity market. The rest of the centre party introduced this electricity market. As regards the clarification of the renewable directive, it is our objective that it should be clear so that it can be synchronised with the introduction of the green certificates, i.e. all necessary decisions are taken, ratified and in order until 1 January 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3294	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3299	The representative proposal we are discussing today is an important and timely theme that the government has for too long ignored. We see the result in record low water storage and record high power prices, despite too high import volumes from our neighbouring countries. When the Council of State says that empty magazines are not a misguided policy, it is completely wrong, because the low and empty magazines are an example of a lack of self-production within borders, especially in central Norway. The fact that until recently the government found that it was not appropriate to send an energy message to the Stortinget shows the government's lack of framework conditions for business and its consequences. The work on this message should have come much earlier, so that the necessary measures could be put in place to address the power crisis this government has created. Then it doesn't think representatives from SV will find our critical posts so-called surmaga and laugh. It says more about SV's ability and willingness to go in and take care of the industrial workplaces that we have, which we just have to note that they have been a little busy, despite the fact that, for example, we have the purest aluminium produced in the world based on hydropower. Kristin Halvorsen stated the following to NTB on 4 January 2003, which was also addressed by the representative Heimdal: ‘Now we have to really go through the Energy Act, because what is happening now is that the coldest right-wing policy is going right into the living rooms of people.’ Never have the challenges been bigger, after SV has been in government for almost six years. So where are the SV's solutions for this now? Workplaces are lost and the number of poor is record high. The relative price is considerably higher now than when the Halvorsen indignantly struck at verbally. Therefore, it is immeasurably important that the government address the fundamental challenges in the power market, namely lack of new production, lack of transmission lines and increasing energy consumption. Norway now needs a mandatory plan to ensure security of supply for electricity and to prevent future power crises. Several winter seasons with a strenuous power situation and high power prices require political action. First of all, more power generation needs to be developed, new powerlines that take off flaps in the power system, and stronger efforts to improve energy efficiency, especially in the construction sector. State and state are the biggest builders, so it's maybe about starting in its own backyard. So the representative Serigstad Valen has great potential. The question is whether they will only be effective. When some point to the so-called intelligent current meters being an important contribution to reducing energy challenges, it is true with certain modifications. They will help to reduce power peaks, but not total consumption if they function according to their intentions – and it is an intention – but there are several of the energy companies that have expressed scepticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3315	I will first give the representative Hemdal exactly – the Christian People's Party has shown its power of action, and they demonstrated it to the full when they drove through the Worm Lange in spite of strong warnings. This is not just a theoretical issue. The Christian People's Party's decision has had quite concrete consequences for my part of the country. Former oil and energy minister Steensnæs has taken self-criticism on this, so I think it is strange that the representative Hämdal cannot do the same. Then the Council of State is absolutely right in saying this is the debate on the snow that fell last year. But when the proposal we are actually discussing today, the comments on the Christian People's Party and the speeches so clearly bear the impression that this is actually a project to re-establish Steensnæs' legacy as Minister for Oil and Energy, it becomes a little relevant last year's snow, especially when, first of all, the proposers do not seem to be interested in recognising that many of the proposals are part of the government's policy already, secondly, that the government implements good energy saving and renewable policies at a much higher pace than the Steensnæs ever succeeded, and thirdly that the government has warned a new energy message and new discussions on network policy. To the representative Grimstad's polemics on industry and SV, it is probably only to replicate that the overall deregulation policy of the Progress Party will probably not be a gift package for Norwegian jobs. With regard to the results of the large fluctuations in the electricity price, the red-green government has made a significant improvement in housing support over the months the electricity prices are high – a measure that works much more effectively than the Progress Party's proposals on charging charges, which the party itself knows will not work, but which makes much better use of populist newspapers. Then the discussion of automatic meter reading continues, and I notice that the Progress Party at all does not have the faith in this tool. They say this will not reduce the consumption at all. Firstly, automatic meter reading opens up to a system where spot prices can be paid and where reductions in power peaks will have a real effect on consumers’ bills. Secondly, I notice that the representative Grimstad is of the opinion that if consumers have a screen in the kitchen where there is how much power you use at any time, it will not affect the power consumption of the customer. In that case, it is the opposite human vision of the Progress Party usually foreshadows, where man is only a rational, economic actor who is primarily concerned with maximizing his own economic gain in everyday life. Instead, the Progress Party has put itself on a line where the state is going to take care of everything, and I think that is really pleasing, but I wonder if the Progress Party is still its liberalist policy of faith. I hope I am right that the Progress Party has completed the journey from once so irresponsible, extreme right-wing party on the economic axis, to a party that acknowledges that there is a need for public governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3326	It is entertaining to listen to the representative Serigstad Valen, but it will be a parody of accountability when you look at the content. The progress party has not argued against two-way communication, or the AMS. Anyone who has read the story before becoming a representative will see that the Progress Party was in line with all the other parties and expressed itself positively to two-way communication. It should notice Serigstad Valen. What's the argument for the Progress Party, on the other hand, is that when the government tries to make this one of the big measures to lower people's electricity bill, it turns out that it probably isn't. That's something you have to take over. So if you're going to play on the power pricing here, as Serigstad Valen says, there are clear calculations that show that the price variations in Norway are so small that you'd like to save a 50-note a year. Investing NOK 2000 to save NOK 50 per year is not necessarily a good investment. With regard to the Malvik Everk pilot project of 41 users, it is worth noting that the savings were not on the electricity price but on the network rental. Then it's a little bit more about which web policy the power company has been leading, not that a saves a lot of electricity. We should also remember, given some of the previous speeches here, that when you boast of Enova, who has got a lot of money, you should remember that it wasn't part of the plan of the government of the Soria Moria I statement. That was a consequence of it cluttering it with green certificates, and then this became a subsidiary approach because it did not get to the policy that everyone wanted. It is also worth noting that all the parties on the Storting have supported the allocation that has been to Enova, so it is not the government that has done this despite the opposition, but in cooperation with the opposition. I also think the government could notice that – at least those from the government parties who are taking part in this debate. I simply did not understand what the representative Serigstad Valen spoke about when he spoke about the deregulation policy of the Progress Party. There must be a designed situation. But when he boasts that SV was the party that fought for housing support, I would like to stress that SV – 25 November 2010 – therefore voted against using housing support as an instrument, when the state budget was adopted. It was the opposition that the government thought should use that tool if the power prices were high. However, in the 2011 state budget, the government said that the electricity price should be the same this year as last year, and thus it can be assumed that the government did not believe that housing support was necessary. Then the government has turned around because it has seen that the policy it has pursued has not resulted in a stable electricity price, but rather a higher electricity price. That's actually what you have to measure up to here. The representative Serigstad Valen and others can boast as much as they want of everything they think the government does, but what we see now is that we get winter prices on electricity in the summer. This indicates that the government has not done what it should have done. It has not been done as the opposition has for six years proposed that it should have done, and that is actually the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3337	I understand that the Christian People's Party with this proposal meets a sore toe with the representative Serigstad Valen, since he needs to fire a force-salve after force-salve. The Christian People's Party is a powerful force for action. So it was the Christian People's Party under the Bondevik government that established Enova. It was the Christian People's Party in government that initiated green certificates in 2002–2003. It was the Christian People's Party, with the Right and Left in the 2007 climate agreement, that pushed former State Council Åslaug Haga to enter into negotiations on green certificates. It was the Christian People's Party in government that set wind energy targets – 3 TWh. We were almost 50 pst. on our way out of government premises in 2005. The government's SV has scolded this target. Yes, when we believe that politics is being eroded, the Christian People's Party is also a powerful force for action. We then chose to leave the government to stand up for our policy. We did so in 2001, unlike SV, which broke its promise to the voters to clean all gas plants from day one, when they entered into the agreement between the State and Statoil in 2006. They broke the same agreement in 2009 and they do so in the room today with regard to the change in the emissions permit, which now states that 2014 is passé, and normal industrial practices are being applied. After all, one has to ask when «normal industrial practices» have saved the climate: are not politicians who have had a vision, who have helped to save the climate – and then have industry become involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3346	I have a few brief comments to make to Mr Solvik-Olsen. It is primarily linked to the AMS, to which the Progress Party is supposed to be positive, but in which I feel that the potential is being underestimated. It's a good thing you have the truth witnesses on it. I believe that the potential for AMS is much greater and goes much further than the Solvik-Olsen here refers to – that is, 50 kroner a year. First of all, it really matters to people themselves. It is not a requirement, but an opportunity to gain control of its own power bill and its own power consumption in a completely different way from today. I think that's fundamentally positive. It will give incentives to think about. Perhaps even more important are the consequences of network rental. If you get a well-functioning AMS system, both in business and in private households, you will achieve two effects. First, you make better use of existing infrastructure. This reduces the need for new investment, which, of course, saves the cost to society, and therefore to consumers. In addition, you want to have the effect that if you reduce the top load, you also reduce the power loss in the network, which again will give exactly the same effect. The fact is that I believe that the AMS simply has a potential beyond that the Progress Party expressed from this pulpit. I think that this could be – not the whole answer, but – a very important piece of the total cake in terms of how to meet these challenges in the future. In the case of housing support, I should be very careful to say that the government is delivering the goods here. Decisions were taken in the Stortinge in winter. I was the case rapporteur for that matter. People got this money when the electricity bill came, and I want to say it's interesting that the opposition before Christmas was aware that both weather and traffic conditions were going to become such that there was a need for this housing support. But when we found out the fact, we delivered it when the need was there. So at least we can agree that that's good, that's our job, and in this case the job is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3355	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3358	In the case of housing aid: yes, the opposition actually had an analysis, because we looked at the level of filling already last autumn that it was bad. In fact, the last energy minister, Terje Riis-Johansen, said already a year ago that this winter would be worse than last winter, so the government itself had needed an analysis a year earlier about how this would be. Nevertheless, they did not follow up on being led were with housing support. But the fact that the government turned around and came after, was very good. They're supposed to be proud of that. In the case of AMS, that a watt meter will make people conscious, is very good. I support that, and I think there are also others who will save some money. But I don't want to gamble like the government that the effect should be as big as they think. Many other measures are much more important. And pretending that AMS is the big thing here, I just don't believe in – unless the government's policy is that there should be bigger fluctuations in price night and day than it is today. But I actually thought that the government had added that there should be a more even price, both between parts of the country and in the daytime. Then it would actually be less to save than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3365	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3382	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3391	The proposal we are discussing has many good intentions that a joint committee is behind. Everyone agrees in the setting on the targets outlined, but only the opposition parties support the adoption by the Stortinget. The government parties are careful with comments. I believe the experience of the opposition suggests that decisions are better than beautiful words. But the goal of reducing energy use in barley, and of having a thoughtful use of energy, is something we share. It is both environmentally friendly and sensible resource use and good for consumers’ wallets — provided that no action is required where one penny is spent to save 10 cents. Costs and objectives must be coherent. It is important when assessing the use of Enova. The Committee emphasises the need for diversity and flexibility in the solutions promoted. The solutions will have to vary according to the function and location of the building. Small apartments in Oslo will need solutions other than old wooden houses in Gudbrandsdalen or in Finnmark. Then we have to open up to look at different technologies, different instruments, and not be stifled by individual technologies, as we have seen in the past. Highly heat-needed construction must be treated differently from low heat-needed construction. Different solutions will have to be used in different places, simply because you have little heat needs, you will not be able to defend a large expansion of waterborne heat, for example. in a building like that. The Committee believes that a clear distinction should be made between energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion. It's an important signal. The Committee also stresses the need to be able to look at energy needs in a wider context, such as: to look at cooling requirements versus heat requirements in different buildings nearby. In Rogaland, where I come from, there is an industrial area in Kviamarka, where dairy activities and others are just able to make optimal use of each other's heating and cooling needs. In Lørenskog, Selvaagbygg wants to take the initiative to carry out a major development project as a model project for an overall environmental effort. The plan is for Lørenskog environmental city to comprise 1,200 dwellings, 40000 m2 of commercial land, school and railway station. The municipal sub-plan was adopted in the autumn of 2010, and the solution is to establish integrated energy and environmental systems, so that energy is not wasted but can be reused. The problem is that the use of tools in Enova is not geared towards such a large and comprehensive project. That's why I hope the Council of State will take it from this debate the next time he talks to Enova: to be able to look at not just one building, but to look at larger projects where more buildings can be connected. Of course, Enova should not go in and take responsibility, but Enova must be able to be open when different players who have found each other come together to Enova. The Committee expresses a very positive view of Enova’s project, called the building of the future. The opposition emphasises that one here has to embrace both large and small players, and not just let the very big players get through the loop at Enova. I hope the Council of State also listens to it, even though it's not a majority who say it. The Committee welcomes the public drive for good demonstration buildings for both sensible and energy-efficient technologies, which can then be demonstrated. The Committee also meets the NVE’s evaluation of the Energy Labelling Scheme for Construction and wishes to see an assessment of a separate energy label for plus houses. The Committee would like to make greater provision for housing to become a power supply. We in the Progress Party get calls from people who want to build such houses, but experience that the processes of getting it done are so extensive that as a single household they do not succeed in that process. The position and opposition are saying differently in the setting, but the essence of everyone is that we want this to be simpler, and I hope that the Council of State will take an initiative in that. Then, from my own heart, I would just like to point out this with energy saving, that Enova has a lot of instruments. However, in terms of energy saving in individual households, the use of the instrument is relatively narrow. After-insulation and replacement of windows are e.g. not taken care of. Cheaper measures that several households could afford are also excluded, for example: air-to-air heat pumps and wood stoves. If the goal is to get a volume, this means that one also has to use to a greater extent than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3417	I refer to the full presentation of the Committee's position by the case-speaker. The proposers focus on an important area in my view. We should get more energy-efficient buildings and energy-producing buildings, so-called plus houses. Therefore, we need framework conditions, support schemes and other instruments that stimulate such development. This is what the case-speaker said, broad political agreement on. It is a political intention to reduce the use of energy in buildings. Our tool to get this done is Enova. It is most relevant to ask whether Enova’s actions and support mechanisms are optimal to achieve desired development. As has been done in a letter from the Council of State to the Committee, Enova’s main objective is to promote an environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and production. Enova is subject to target and result management and must adhere to the current agreement with the State. In particular, Enova shall contribute to an increase in renewable heat and energy production and energy saving corresponding to a minimum of 18 TWh per year before the end of 2011. Of course, it is important that the state assess whether we will achieve what we want with Enova when the agreement is renewed from next year. The same applies in the annual allocation notes. I have to admit that I have experienced Enova's rejection of a single project in such a way that it has been incomprehensible to me – that when Enova, by referring to its regulations, could not contribute funds to the energy lab in the further eighth school, a project that would promote both competence, understanding and attitudes in terms of how construction could be energy-efficientised. However, I believe that Mr Enova is already in much the same position when it comes to the proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative. Since 2001, Enova has spent about 1.4 billion dollars. kr for energy efficiency improvement in barley, resulting in expected energy output of about 2,7 TWh. One of the measures here is investment aid for low energy buildings and passive houses. This applies to all building categories — including one-dwelling. However, we are only in the start-up phase of low-energy and passive houses. This is where you want and should increase your activity when you have more experience and knowledge with these types of houses. Anyone who wants to build so-called plus houses can also receive support through the passive and low-energy building programme. Support for individual elements is also provided to help make it a so-called plus house. A plus house can deliver power to the grid for periods, and it is then important to have a most unbureaucratic regime for that to happen. As stated in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, the NVE has already granted derogations from the requirement of a transposition concession, and there are also other ways of simplifying procedures in relation to ordinary producers. The proposers also ask that the government urgently make sure that at least one state building project becomes a plus building. I notice that several state-owned companies are now placing great emphasis on energy efficiency improvement in conversion and are leading energy efficiency into their construction. An energy labeling system has also been introduced. If it is optimal, it will be assessed when the scheme has worked for a year. The working party agrees with the proposers that we should have an offensive tool to stimulate energy efficiency in construction, even when it concerns the production of energy in so-called plus houses. I believe that the government is doing a good job, and I therefore take up the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3448	The representative of Torstein Rudihagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3451	Norway is today the only country in Europe with no clear energy efficiency improvement targets. There is considerable political focus on energy production, but too little on energy consumption. The proposers have very good proposals for how to do something about energy consumption in new buildings and how to help promote new technologies that will stimulate the construction of both energy-efficient and energy-producing buildings. However, as important as investing in energy-producing buildings, energy efficiency measures are to be introduced into existing building masses. In 2009, Sintef Construction Research estimated that the energy saving potential in the construction sector alone amounted to 12 TWh in the period 2010-2020. It corresponds to the energy consumption of 600 000 dwellings. The Arnstad Committee, which presented its report last summer, has estimated an energy saving potential similar to that of SINTEF. In other words, there is a lot of energy to get from saving energy – and the cheapest and most environmentally friendly energy is as well-known as not being used. Although most energy efficiency measures are self-financing over time, there are very many measures that are still not triggered. The initial investment represents a threshold that many do not have the opportunity to cross. It is therefore necessary to facilitate energy efficiency improvement through public instruments such as: tax incentives for energy saving measures in own household, rights-based direct support in relation to the Oslo model, or white certificates. So far, the government has not decided for any of these measures. That's not good enough. No one can do anything, but everyone can do something. The state should have good assumptions for doing very much. Unfortunately, the experience with the new government quarter, R6, shows that it is a long way from being a model for energy savings. State buildings planned the quarter of a mediocre energy label and left to individuals like Storbrand and Bellona to be ambitious. Right-wing support to the wholehearted proposers in their demand that the State itself take responsibility for promoting and implementing new technologies related to energy efficiency improvement and energy-producing construction. This is not a demanding requirement when proposers ask that at least one State building project should be a plus house. It should therefore be possible to comply, and it is therefore all the more striking that the parties of government do not join the majority of the Committee. Using Enova as an instrument to promote demonstration projects for plus houses of all sizes is also a good idea and an interesting way to redefine Enova's role in the wake of the green certificates we have to hope that the government will introduce from New Year. The ability to sell electricity online will also provide a stronger incentive for the establishment of plus houses, and the Right supports the proposal for faster and simpler processing. Governments have not paid particular attention to energy efficiency improvement and energy-producing construction so far – but it is difficult to criticize him for not being appointed before. Let us therefore hope that he will pay attention to this area in the coming time, and that he will follow up both the Arnstad Committee's reports and the good proposals made by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3472	I've said it earlier today and in other debates, and I'd like to say it again: the saved kilowatt hour is the deciduous best kilowatt hour. Construction accounts for a large share of world energy consumption and hence greenhouse gas emissions. That is why, as explained in the previous debate, the government has strengthened the effort to save energy in large quantities. High-ranking projects have been implemented and record-breaking appropriations have been made. Enova has its own schemes for projects involving passive houses and low-energy buildings. They also contributed to the work of a separate standard for passive houses. This is pretty new water for everyone, and so it's really not so bad to dry 4 pst. of the total aid granted by Enova goes to the passive house project. Some will actually claim that there is quite a lot. This applies to both new construction and rehabilitation, and it is good. So you can take this step further. The possibilities are difficult. We can only imagine the security and the positive environmental effects that it could have if a significant proportion of our building mass were plus houses. There's another piece, maybe first of all because we still don't have the full competence at the plus house and the passive house. But it will come. Therefore, you can also apply to Enova for support for testing technologies that make passive houses plus houses. Not many people do this at all, but they exist, and they deserve honor. It also acknowledges Enova, and so they have announced the project’s future construction, with a view to providing a better offer to these pioneers. I think that is absolutely necessary, and that is an attitude that should definitely be rewarded. Then it has limited effect for the owner of the building if you can't deliver your surplus power anywhere. Therefore, exemption from the concession requirements is required for the supply of electricity to the network. And that's given. But here too, the potential will be significantly enhanced if automatic meter reading, which we have discussed much earlier today, is a standard in most buildings. I actually think that's a very central assumption. A little-known fact is that everyone today can require two-way communication, require automatic meter reading, if they contact their network company. And then we should think even further. Some members of the committee got a glimpse of one of the possibilities of the future when we visited Mitsubishi in Nagoya, Japan last year. When the electric car fraction represents a significant mass in the car park, you will be able to use the cars as a regulation when they are standing. It will once again provide even better resource use, economics and environmental impact, if they work in combination with plus houses. It might sound like science fiction, but I don't think it's very far ahead of time. I have great faith in the possibilities of plus houses, and believe such houses could be an important feature of the Norwegian building mass in the future. Then was the case rapporteur on Enova's instruments in terms of housing. I agree with the representative of Solvik-Olsen that we need a debate on the use of energy for private homes in the time to come. It is therefore also gratifying that in a previous case, particularly last autumn, a unanimous committee decided that it is natural to explore both technology-developing and technology-neutral energy saving schemes in the coming period. There the representative Solvik-Olsen is fully aware that I share his great commitment to so-called white certificates. That's something I enjoy working on, which can also be relevant to plus houses. There is another way to reward such activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3493	The centre party will lead Norway from the fossil to the renewable energy community. That's why we have to better housekeepers with the energy we use, and we have to produce more renewable energy. That is why we also support the intention of today's draft representative. Norway has a high untapped potential for both the production of new renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement, including for households. The energy used by households shall have a minimum negative impact, both on the climate and in the form of local pollution, such as particulate matter. More energy-efficient construction is a key objective of the Climate Action. At the same time, it is important to look at costs and objectives in the context of the solutions chosen and to take into account what is most functional for individual constructions. Last year, the low-energy programme confirmed that energy use in buildings can be halved by 2040. The municipal minister has this as an ambition, and progress is already faster than assumed for just a few years. Today, the Norwegian building mass uses a total of 80 TWh energy. To halve this figure, measures must be taken in all types of buildings, both new and old residential buildings and industrial buildings. The committee proposed that all new buildings from 2015 should be passive houses. The EU's recently updated building directive requires new construction from 2020 onwards to be a so-called zero-energy building, in other words, built with particularly low energy needs, which also produces energy itself. Passive house is a step on the road. Active house is next. Correctly, the CO2 emissions from the Norwegian building mass do not exceed 3 pst. of the total emissions, against approx. 35 pst. in Europe. This is because we're essentially using current based on hydropower. But if we release electricity from buildings, this could replace the use of other pollutants. As the proposers are aware, there are many possible ways to speed up the construction of energy-producing buildings. Both instrumentation, procedural efficiency and energy labels are important tools. In addition, the State must set a good example. That's why the government has already done a lot of work to support development. There is already room in Enova for support for passive houses and individual components that can help lift the passive houses to become a plus house. At the same time, we see that the market is currently small. The NVE has granted exemptions from trading concession requirements for consumer customers, which will deliver electricity on the network in profit periods. When we learn more about how the Plus Houses Code works, we will consider further regulatory simplifications. The centre party is impatient in getting valuable power released from the building stock and instead using it to replace fossil energy in, for example, the transport sector and industry. The automatic meter reading system, which was much discussed in the previous case, could also make an important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3519	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a very thorough presentation. I would then like to thank representatives from the People's Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, who are promoting the proposals from the Left in the position here today. I notice that the government parties support the intention of the proposals, and that is unfortunately as far as they can go. I hope the new Council of State can give some positive signals here today. As we have written in the draft representative, buildings stand for about 40 pst. energy consumption in the world and large cuts in energy consumption in buildings will have a major positive impact on the environment. Energy-efficient houses have long been focussed on in Europe. In recent years, the interest in houses that generate more energy than the consumers, plus houses, has blossomed. Such houses are built, among others. in Germany and Austria. The EU Parliament has proposed that all new buildings from 2019 should produce more energy than the consumers, as was also the case with the representative Olsen. Norway is among the countries where energy consumption in buildings is highest. As seen, Norway is also one of the countries most benefiting from energy efficiency measures in the construction sector. A prerequisite for Norwegian plus houses is that the building body is as energy efficient as possible. With good insulation, high density and intelligent ventilation solutions, it is possible to reduce heating requirements to a minimum. In addition, heat recovery solutions for ventilation air and gray water, creative solutions to optimise daylight use and use of only very energy efficient electrical appliances will mean that the building only needs to generate a very limited amount of energy. We in the Left will point out that with a combination of very energy efficient constructions, solar collectors and heat pumps for heating, as well as small wind turbines and solar panels for electricity generation, it will be fully possible to build plus houses in most places along the coast, up to a good distance into North Norway. Also in the interior there will be places that are well suited for plus houses, but here it will call winter could be a challenge. Far north of the country, the low number of sun hours also poses a major challenge. Enova, the government body that provides financial support for energy efficiency improvement and renewable energy production, currently has support systems for the construction of energy-efficient buildings, but they do not support private households. In order to motivate the construction of more energy-efficient houses in all construction categories, this scheme should apply to all types of buildings, just as there are renewable heating support schemes for all the different building categories. Finally, it is fully possible to build a plus house in Norway. At the same time, there are a number of energy efficiency and energy production solutions that can be implemented in the existing building stock and that should be used in new buildings also in places where conditions are not conducive to the construction of plus houses. Given the long life span of buildings, the existing building stock will be with us far into the future. It is then important to implement measures to ensure that energy use in these buildings is as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3538	Let me start by saying that everyone shares the intention of the proposal that is being promoted here, that we should use energy as efficiently as possible, and that to the extent that we can reduce consumption, and perhaps even produce energy, that makes sense. So it's also that things happen continuously. For example, only the last 15–20 years have the technical regulation requirements have been substantially tightened, not least with a view to reducing energy consumption in Norwegian households. I would like to remind you that the government has recently gone rounds, and it has made stricter demands. The government is also partly in the storm, given that some people believe that these requirements are too strict, there are too many costs associated with them, and it imposes too much on the competence of those to build these houses. I'm not saying that's the same thing as not continuing this way, but I think it's part of the story to present it. The government has a broad commitment to energy conversion. Energy conversion contributes to a more diversified energy supply, reduced dependence on hydropower and improved security of supply. It includes both measures to limit energy use and to reduce the use of electricity and oil for heating. The energy conversion takes into account important climate and environmental considerations. The energy conversion is targeted at known energy solutions that are not yet competitive in the market and at new environmentally friendly energy solutions that can have a promising market potential in the long term. Achieving sustainable market changes is an ambition, where environmentally friendly solutions become competitive. Enova is responsible for a number of programmes, including: to increase energy efficiency in industry and in construction, to increase the share of renewable heat based on water-borne solutions and to demonstrate new energy technologies. The proposers indicate that buildings stand for about 40 p.m. of the world's energy consumption, and that large cuts in energy use in buildings will have a positive impact on the environment. Furthermore, they indicate that the interest in houses that generate more energy than the consumers, so-called plus houses, has blossomed. I agree that measures are important to reduce the use of energy in buildings. Enova has a broad focus on the construction sector, a commitment that has produced results. The proposers indicate that a condition in Norwegian plus houses is that the building body is as energy efficient as possible. By means of good insulation, high density and intelligent ventilation solutions, they believe that it is possible to reduce the heating requirement to a minimum. I can show that it's just this Enova is working to achieve. One of the main elements of Enova’s construction programme is its own offer of investment aid to investors wishing to build low-energy buildings and passive houses. This part of the programme is targeted at all building categories, including single dwellings, and includes both new buildings and extensive rehabilitation projects. Enova has also established an advisory team and a support scheme for the investigation and design of passive houses. This investment yields limited energy results per krona, but is part of the long-term effort to make energy-efficient construction the preferred solution in the market. The proposers ask the government to ensure that Enova supports the development of demonstration projects for plus-houses of all sizes, and to ensure that support for energy-efficient buildings also includes private households. I can show that actors with ambitions to build plus houses can now receive support to build a building body corresponding to the passive house standard through the passive house and low-energy building programme offer. However, the plus-house market is significantly shorter than the passive house market, and Enova states that they have so far received only a few individual requests on the possibilities for support for plus-house projects. I would like to remind you that the management of Enova follows the principles of target and result management. A clear division of responsibilities and roles between the ministry of contracting entity and Enova as contracting entity has been established. The objectives of the activity are defined by the purpose of the Energy Fund, as well as the main objectives and performance targets set by agreement between the Ministry and Enova. It provides for the most cost-effective management of the funds of the Energy Fund in line with the Storting decision and the conditions for the establishment of the Enova and the Energy Fund. It is therefore Enova’s task to design programmes and programme criteria that are always best suited to markets, within the framework set out in the agreement. Furthermore, the proposers ask the government to simplify and speed up the procedure for energy installations connected to buildings supplying electricity to the network by allowing cases to be dealt with locally by the NVE, as is currently done with the smallest small power plants. I can show that positive customers who supply electricity to the grid for individual hours are already exempt from the sales concession requirement. The NVE has granted a general exemption to enable a consumer who has a profit in individual hours to deliver it into the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3574	Let me first clarify with regard to the statements made by the Council of State that criticism of the measures being taken on the energy side is not due to strict requirements for energy efficiency improvement, but to strict energy conversion requirements, i.e. away from using electricity. There are many who find unreasonable, because we have to use very expensive solutions to meet the energy needs that a cheaper and better could cover by using electricity. So in relation to Enova's tool use: I put up in my post a request from a lot of users to be able to get support for technologies that Enova does not support today, for example. air-to-air heat pump, wood stoves, after-insulation and window switching. Will the Council of State take the initiative to enable Enova to assess such measures more closely, so that more households with less good economies than they have who can drill for geothermal heating can also contribute to the energy savings that I believe the Council of State and everyone in this House wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3581	First of all, when it came to the criticism I referred to, it was not said that it came from the Progress Party and the Solvik-Olsen. I'm just referring to a general debate in society where many teams problem the increasingly stringent demands made by the government on energy efficiency in the house, and consequently also the demands made on the competence and implementation of those to build them, and that many question the cost. And then I made it clear that it's not the same thing that we're not going to do it, but it's obviously a debate. So it's that granting State aid itself is not an objective; it's an instrument to achieve the objectives you want. In the case of wood stoves, my analysis is that it is a well-functioning market. Then there is no point to go in and give state aid there. Enova has a task of introducing new technologies and making it part of a well-functioning market. Otherwise, we should have a measure of the most cost-effective use of the tax credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3588	Then we have to agree on what Enova is going to do. Should Enova try to achieve maximum energy savings? Or is Enova going to try to create new markets that don't exist today, by subsidising technologies that the market itself has not seen need, as the Council of State suggests here? What we're going to remember is that in the case of pellet stoves, even after many years of aid for pellet stoves, one has not made that market work. In the case of drilling for geothermal heat, it is very positive. But I have e.g. I got the cost of my house, which is NOK 300000. I can't afford that, but an air-to-air heat pump could be interesting. It could be interesting for a lot of people, and you could trigger a lot of these projects in Norway, I think, with a relatively small amount of support, just because of people's psychology, that getting that little contribution makes you do it, while you're not doing it today. If it is that the government wants to stimulate as much energy as possible, it should be technology neutral. If, on the other hand, the government wants to stimulate new technologies, one should not talk about this being about saving as much energy as possible. Then one just has to say that one wants more competitors into the market. It's an honest point of view, but it's two different purposes one then uses Enova for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3597	I'm a little uncertain about where Solvik-Olsen is going, simply because he's trying to balance savings and efficiency on the one hand and new markets and new technology on the other hand to a contradiction where you have to choose, and say either–or. I don't agree, Enova is going to do both. They will essentially ensure that we get as much back on our tax credits as possible, and then they will help to develop new markets and put new technologies into place. Both air-to-air heat pumps, to which the representative referred, and wood stoves are well-functioning markets, and they are traded for large amounts and in large numbers each year. That's something that most people obviously – and fortunately – can afford, and that makes sense. Should we really destroy those markets, we should now say that we are considering introducing a support scheme for this. It would probably be the most effective stopper because someone had come to buy a heat pump tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3602	It is gratifying that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that energy efficiency improvement is important. The question is, of course, how to trigger the potential that exists. Reference is made, inter alia, to: SINTEF Construction research, which believes that the equivalent energy consumption of 600 000 households can be saved within 10 years if good and adequate tools are available. So the question to the Council of State is, does the Council of State think that the instruments are good enough today? If the answer is no, what means does he think is the most topical to put in place to trigger this potential? Will the Council of State, and in what way, follow the recommendations of the Arnstad Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3607	To the question of whether we should trigger the potential: yes, I believe that we need to be offensive in that way, that we are developing new technologies, getting down on the entry price, in the long term making it possible to apply solutions that are perhaps a little ahead of us today, also for ordinary consumers. But I also think it's important to be aware that it might take some time. Is our tool good enough? On a general basis, I think I will answer so that we always have to be open to discuss our tool in line with the "time and hope", to quote the mountain law. It has to be so that we constantly adjust it to map and terrain, and make sure that there are optimized relationships to the goals we want to achieve. Now we're going into a process with Enova to write a new letter of assignment and a new letter of intent, and then this is the kind of debate and the kind of recording that will of course be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3614	In the extension of the previous question: To extract the energy potential in Norwegian construction, we depend on the state to assume a greater responsibility and go into concrete measures, as we see it. An example of this is that the State can grant exemptions to municipalities from the Law on Planning and Building, so that municipalities can impose stricter requirements on developers and projects and new buildings than is currently in the technical standard. Is the Council of State open to such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3619	I am always open to good suggestions, but I am asking for understanding that I am not willing to sign out support for this proposal over the table. It's going to be a video game that I'll consider interesting, and that I'm going to take with me in the future. The representative tend to point to something that I think might be as effective as grants whose goal is energy efficiency improvement and lower energy use, and that's the role that the state has as regulatory authority, where demands are made and rules are laid down. This government has done so, for example: through new technical regulations. I have also explained earlier in this debate the balances that I think it is important to bring them into such a picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3626	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3631	As a member of the Municipal and Management Committee, I am in a committee that focuses on energy efficiency in buildings. The Government and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs are now working on a major communication on building policy, where energy efficiency is one of four priority areas. Energy efficiency improvement in buildings has been highlighted as one of the main climate measures. 80 TWh is used in the building mass and until 2020 the savings potential is calculated for 10 to 12 TWh. In my article I want to focus on the low-energy programme, which will also affect whether we will build more plus houses in Norway. There is a cooperation between the construction industry and several state agencies. The participants are the Land Association of Construction, the Architectural Companies, the House Bank, Enova, the NVE, the State Building and the State Building Institute. The programme works with energy efficiency improvement in construction and building competence enhancement in the construction industry in the field. It's out in the community a growing commitment and a lot of attention around energy efficiency improvement due to high power prices. In 2009, the construction industry traded for 105 billion dollars. kr for new builds and 86 brd. kr for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the building stock. By focusing on skills enhancement in the construction industry, large investments can be targeted at including energy and environmental measures and thus lay the basis for offensive and good regulation. In the climate agreement, it says: ‘Parties agree that the experience of passive houses should be followed up and that the introduction of requirements for passive houses for all new buildings should be considered by 2020.’;» So far it's built approx. 21,000 passive houses in Europe, most in Germany and Austria. We already have a lot of knowledge about passive houses and energy rehabilitation. The challenge is that this should become the standard throughout the construction industry, where knowledge is not general and lack of knowledge can become the main barrier to implementing such a standard. Today, there are an estimated 250,000 jobs in the construction industry, and many of these jobs in small craft companies. In order to ensure that energy efficiency measures are designed and implemented correctly, it is essential that safe and robust technical solutions are developed. Our efforts in this field need to be reflected in an increased focus on instructions, tools and other developments in knowledge and evidence as energy requirements in the construction industry increase. This will lead to more plus houses that give us energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3650	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3666	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3675	I have been delighted to be the spokesperson for this matter, and I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive interaction and for its good progress. There have been several issues in Stortinget in recent years about power crisis and security of supply. Strengthening the power supply to the Bergens region has also been the theme of the past. This case from the Progress Party, where they are asking for the voltage upgrade and increased power generation to be set up against new power lines, was raised before the final position was taken for Sima – Samnanger by the government on 1 March 2011. Then things were finally decided, and it was decided that a new power line would be built in the air voltage. Although the case of Sima to Samnanger is formally settled, this case is an important principle both in the case of the concession management procedure and in the case of an independent assessment of the basis of the concession application. In a letter to the Ministry, the Committee has called for several reports and documents on the supply situation in the Bergens region, including: Troll Power's work for Statoil. Unfortunately, more reports and attachments are missing in what came from the ministry. The majority of the Committee suggests that the matter be put to the minutes, while the minority will reject the proposal. We are behind us for several years with strong and intense debate on power lines. In Hardanger, there has been strong opposition to the plans to build a new 420 kW power line between Sima and Samnanger from the start of the plans in 2005, and it peaked when the concession was rejected on 2 July 2010. Sima – Samnanger is unique in many ways. All municipalities in the region were opposed to air voltage. The same was true of Hordaland and the political parties in the state. The main argument for the construction of the line has been the security of supply situation in the Bergens region. The fact that the case has been so remarkable is also evident in an analysis of the formal concession process and the media coverage associated with the construction of the power line between Sima and Samnanger that SINTEF has created, which is called Case Hardanger and is dated 1 April 2011. The purpose of the report is to contribute to the further development of robust procedures relating to the management of network development projects by the authorities and may be necessary. Right-wing agrees with the proposers that upgrading existing powerline networks is the most realistic option for the planned line between Sima and Samnanger, and that this option should therefore be further developed from an independent professional environment much earlier. This option should have been assessed against the air voltage in Hardanger before a final decision. In these assessments, the disadvantages also had to be in the form of e.g.: reduced mountain security during the upgrading period and the need to realise the potential for renewable energy production in Hardanger was included. It is worth noting that Statnett wrote in the report ‘Sima – Samnanger, updated system calculations December 2007’ that it ‘will not be socially profitable to invest in a new 420 kV line Sima – Entrepreneurs already in 2010’. Statnet also points out in the report that a postponement of the power line by 2015 would give ‘a better decision-making basis, primarily related to future consumption developments in the area’. This view also shares several hearing aids, which have concluded that one should await a more comprehensive review of the supply situation in the Bergens region before taking a final position on the construction of an air line between Sima and Samnanger. It is also demonstrated that local power generation and/or energy use reduction both for normal consumption and for the oil industry could change the situation. Many would argue that the 420 kV line between Sima and Samnanger has been characterized by the cohesive root of the department and the government's side, and that the final phase in this matter has been a game for the gallery. It is worth noting that Selection 3 indicates that the security of supply in the BKK area would probably be satisfactory for the next decade even though Sima–Summanger was not in place until 2012 under the command of the Modalen–Mongstad–Kollsnes in place before 2016 and the Energy Plant Mongstad is in full operation from 2015. There is considerable evidence that the main challenges of security of supply for the Bergens region and the BKK area are related to the modalle and Kollsnes line, and that these challenges need to be addressed independently of the construction of Sima-Samninger. This in itself would be good enough reason to take the time to wait for a full distribution of the supply situation in the Bergens region before taking a final position on the construction of a new line between Sima and Samnanger through unspoiled Hardanger nature. I recommend the setting from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3719	We have taken important steps towards a safer energy supply in the mountainous region. Secure and stable supply of power is important for both housing and business. The mountain area is growing, and that growth must be facilitated by the large community. I am pleased that the government has taken a right and important decision to secure the power supply in this region, and that the government has now taken the first interim decision on the power line from Ørskog to Sogndal. This line will also improve the situation in Middle Norway. To meet the challenges facing us in the power sector in Norway, it requires more production of cleanpower, better and strongerline networks and commitment to an increase in measures both in industry and not least in households. The government has doubled its efforts within all three of these areas. The proposers wanted the upgrading of existing line networks to be set up against new connections in the context of the Sima-Samnanger discussion. The government has maintained its proposal on the air voltage between Sima and Samnanger. During the NVE concessional treatment, the voltage upgrade was considered an alternative. The NVE concluded that such a solution would not be sufficient to ensure security of supply. In the Ministry’s decision on the appeal in a letter dated 2 July 2010, the stress upgrade was reviewed as one of several alternative means of transmission from Sima to Samnanger. The Ministry concluded there that it was not an appropriate alternative to upgrade existing lines until a third transmission line entered that area to secure supply during the installation period. There are currently very limited opportunities to link new production to the network in the BKK area. In the NVE, notifications and applications for small power plants with a total production of around 115 GWh are pending until new transmission capacity is established. Statnett has further assessed that the Sima-Samnanger line can enable the creation of 1 TWh renewable energy production. In the event of a voltage upgrade, plans for new production must be put on ice for 15 years. I think it is a little strange that the Progress Party here is in favour of a proposal that would postpone investment in new power generation by 15 years, but they do. In the sample reports we could read that if we didn't build a new line into the mountain area, we had to establish the mountain area as our own price range at times much higher price than the rest of the country. It's not a solution that neither I nor the government are interested in. For the Workers' Party and the Government, it has been important in this matter to ensure a good and stable power supply in the mountain area, that we do not have to have large differences in price between the parts of Norway and that more power is produced in the mountainous region. We're sure of that with the solution we have now chosen. The Sima-Samnanger power line is the option that can contribute most rapidly to the creation of new power generation in the region, thus contributing to local economic development, value creation and not least housing. I then take up the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3742	The representative of Tor-Arne Stroem has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3745	This is an important matter purely concrete, but also in principle. In this hall, we have tried several times from the opposition to get the government to promote a matter of powerline policy in order to discuss the principles. These included: a theme when we discussed the expansion of the oil field. This was to be electrified from Mongstad. Then one was supposed to take power from the Bergens region, without one thought it was a bigger problem, and electrify the Norwegian base. Then the opposition wanted us to have a fundamental debate on this. What should be the basis for the energy policy? The government's policy and the government's solution would lead to many new powerlines. Then we should have clarified the principles before we knew where the line was going, so that not everyone was in favour of the powerlines until they realized that they were going through their own backyard. I think it's easier to take the principle debate before someone knows who's being hit, because then you can rise a little above it. The government wouldn't. It wasn't necessary, the government said. Now we get a powerline debate like this in retrospect. But the damage has unfortunately already happened in Hardanger. Then I register that the government boasts that they come with this message. But those who know the story know that the government hasn't exactly been a driver of it – they know about it. So I also noticed that the representative, Stroem, said that if the government doesn't get its way, it will take 15 years to find alternatives. It says a little about how close the Norwegian energy policy is – 15 years to find an alternative to the power line through Hardanger. This is about will, and it is not least about bad and inability. I do not understand that the government itself will admit how slowly they work when they say that an alternative will take 15 years to get in place. But it doesn't explain a government that can't really discuss other alternatives. So when one of the samples says that there is an option with a voltage upgrade that is perhaps more socio-economically profitable than what the government has chosen, the government rejects that this might be possible because, first of all, one has to put in place the powerlines between Mongstad and Kolsnes in five years. They consider that unrealistic. Yes, I can understand that when I see how slow a worker is. Ørskog-Fardal was supposed to be in place in 2011, said Statnett in 2006, and now we get an investment decision only in 2011, a welcome investment decision, but nevertheless five years late. The government parties say that it will be impossible to get the gas power plant at Mongstad in full operation by 2015, a gas power plant that is obviously finished. So it's completely constructed. But Power and Co. So don't think it's possible to start both turbines in five years. Once again, it says a little bit about the government's ability to find good solutions. I think the Progress Party had made it. The government says they can't do it. That's their challenge. This issue of security of supply for Bergen is important. The progress party took it up when we dealt with the Gjøa project in 2007. No one should come here and tell them that the Progress Party is not concerned about it. What we've discussed here is the only solution to this, to take power from Sima's hydropower plant, which already exists, and drag it through Hardanger. Or could there be solutions where you build new production elsewhere and pull it up from the south? It's possible. But I noticed immediately that the samples had submitted their report on 1 February, in a debate at Tabloid against then Minister of Energy Terje Riis-Johansen, that the beginning of discussing new power generation in this context was totally out of date. One was supposed to pick up the power from Sima and thus the sauna. Then this is the only solution you can evaluate. That's how I understand that one falls on that one falls on it. But it's not because there's no real alternative, but there's no alternative that this government can live with politically. The same is true when you read Bergen’s Official Journal of February 6. In other words, only five days after the selection reports were submitted, the political adviser in the Ministry of Oil and Energy said that there are only three alternatives in this case. It is either to build air voltage in Hardanger, sea cable in Hardanger or nothing. Already five days after the submission of their reports, the samples had rejected all other options. It says a little bit about the process that we were all happy about was really started, well, all but the then energy minister Terje Riis-Johansen, wasn't real, because the government didn't intend to assess other options. When you are left with whether to build air voltage through Hardanger or sea cable through Hardanger, the government has made the right choice. Of the two choices, that's right. But that doesn't mean that's the best option. We'll never have the best option figured out, because the government has restricted what they could live with. Statnet loyally follows up when they evaluate alternatives, and then it becomes what it becomes. I'm disappointed. But of what are the real options for the government, one has the right choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3764	The process of building high-spent masters in Hardanger has provided very important lessons that many in political Norway should note. At regular intervals in Norway, as in other countries, local involvement is underestimated and not taken sufficiently seriously. The conflicts related to the Sima–Samnanger power line trajectory identified some obvious weaknesses in the planning and implementation of such projects in Norway. The Government has therefore notified changes to the concession processes aimed at allowing concession applicants to carry out an external quality assurance of the project. It should really say itself, it's despite all the major highways of the current we're talking about here, which represent significant natural interventions, and which in most cases arouse a great local commitment. But it hasn't been like that, and it's very gratifying that the government has notified these changes. It is entirely in line with SV’s wish for processes related to the construction of high-spent lines that provide better anchoring early in the processes locally. The investigations, which were carried out last autumn and in winter, also showed some interesting findings. They showed, not least, that independent third party assessments bring new knowledge and provide the basis for more nuanced assessments in these debates. There is a broad consensus that the supply situation in Bergen is unacceptable and needs to be improved. But the investigations showed that there has not been a basis for the crisis awareness presented last year, where it was said that sea cable would be a poor solution for security of supply, and that sea cable made the connection of new small power difficult. It was important to point out for SV's part. The fact that a sea cable represents a significant additional cost and involves its own intervention is, of course, no doubt. The government chose to make a priority and went for the air voltage option, which I think is a pity. There is no doubt that the security of supply of the mountain area now becomes significantly safer, but I think all the conflict that has arisen as a result of this case could have been avoided with better anchoring in the concession processes. Those parts of the Progress Party's proposal that are not polemics, and that is a significant part of the document that is polemics, I have the basic sense of it. SV has had close contact with, among others: The action Preserve Hardanger!, and one of the options we've discussed a lot, is the possibilities for voltage upgrade of existing networks. With a more forward-looking network policy in Norway at a much earlier time – and I would like to remind you here that investments in the network fell to a low level after the Energy Act was adopted early in the 1990s, and reached the zero point at the turn of the millennium – this matter might have been avoided. However, this proposal should not be accepted. There is little economy, little social economy and poor environmental policies to make a region almost permanently dependent on, for example: a reserve gas power plant, and there is reason to recall that the government is working hard to lift Mid-Norway out of a situation where the reserve gas power plants are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3775	In the first three months of 2010, according to Statnett, the mountain area experienced more than 1,300 hours when a fault would darken more than 40 pst. by the city. If something had happened in these hours, the consequences for consumers would be huge, immediate and unacceptable. The supply situation of the mountainous region needs to be improved, both in view of current uncertainties and in view of the future growth of the region. As it is now, the mains power supply does not meet the maximum demand for power. On cold days more electricity is used in the area than it is produced. If more than today's main lines towards the area are used, they can be transported alone and there are errors on one of the two main lines currently in existence, consumers need to be disconnected in order to avoid congestion and even more extensive and long-term power cuts. This must be avoided. The infrastructure must ensure sufficient electricity for all when the consumption is at its highest. Better line capacity must therefore be set as soon as possible. We cannot accept the danger that Bergen will go in black. We must contribute to the creation of new power generation in the area. As a result, we also contribute to local economic development. A number of applications for small power plants, with a total potential of around 115 GWh, are now dusting down pending new transmission capacity. Statnet’s calculations show that it will take ten to twelve years before the upgrade has been completed. This assumes that the new power supply is in place first. If this is not the case, it will take even longer since the works can only be carried out in low load periods. If you build in parallel instead, this will create new natural interventions and thus new conflicts. The centre party believes that it will take an unacceptable long time before this option can be implemented. Furthermore, we believe that it is partly based on unrealistic assumptions. Therefore, the Central Party believes that the power line between Sima and Samnanger must be built. This is the solution that will contribute most rapidly to the realisation of new power generation. It is a step on the way to the goal of a smoother price of electricity, a secure power supply and opportunities for economic growth and increased well-being for most people. That's good central party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3790	Let me first say that it is an important question that is addressed to debate in the Stortinget today. What has been and is most important for the government is to ensure a safe and secure power supply in all parts of the country. That means we have to build more networks, cf. the debates we have had earlier this evening, where I have seen a broad majority at least agree with the idea and the importance of the development of the network. So I think that the representative Serigstad Valen is right when he says that there are many people who have learned a lot about this matter. It is one of the first major line developments that has taken place in Norway for a very long time. My hope and ambition are, of course, that future projects will be able to be implemented with a much lower level of conflict than what has been achieved here. Having said that, I believe that the line we are now building must be one of Norway's best-earned lines – not to say the world. All possible variables and combinations of variables have been taken into account for very thorough assessments. So to the content of the proposal. So here you set the voltage upgrade to the government's point of view of building a new line. Voltage upgrade as an alternative to new transmission was considered during NVE concession treatment. The NVE concluded that, in the interests of security of supply, it would be difficult to take the pipelines for a longer period of time to convert them to 420 kV. During the appeal proceedings, the Ministry of Statenet requested additional information on the voltage upgrade. Based on Statnett’s feedback and notes prepared by the Norwegian Tourist Association, the Ministry re-evaluated the stress upgrade in the review process, after obtaining the NVE’s comments on all material received on this issue. I refer to the department's decision on the complaint in a letter dated 2 July 2010, where the voltage upgrade was reviewed as one of several alternative options for the transfer line from Sima to Samnanger. The Ministry concluded there that it was not an appropriate alternative to upgrade existing lines until a third transmission line entered the area to secure the supply during the installation period. Voltage upgrade is also described by the samples commissioned to assess the sea cable option for Sima-Samninger. A voltage upgrade will extend over 10 to 12 years. However, this assumes that a new power supply is in place first. Without a new power supply, the upgrade will take additional time because the works can only be carried out for short low load periods. New generation of power to the extent and availability required to carry out a voltage upgrade will, in reality, have to be a gas power plant. A gas power plant will not be able to produce during the maximum profit periods, as a result of export restrictions from the region already in force during periods of high tenacity. There are currently very limited opportunities to link new production to the network in the BKK area. In the NVE, notifications and applications for small power plants with a total production of around 115 GWh are pending until new transmission capacity is established. Statnett has further assessed that the Sima-Samnanger line can enable the creation of 1 TWh renewable energy production. In the event of a voltage upgrade, plans for new production must be put on ice until it is completed. The Sima-Samnanger power line is the option which can contribute as quickly as possible to the creation of new power generation in the region, thus contributing to local economic development and value creation. I am of the opinion that there is a basis for saying that it is not a valid option to upgrade existing wires until there is a third transmission line into the area. A new transmission line from Sima to Samnanger was therefore considered necessary in the Ministry’s letter of 1 March. Consequently, the concession decision of 2 July 2010 is final.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3820	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3823	It's good to right that the council thinks there are many people who have learned a lot in this process, and there's a positive invitation to improvement. During the work of the Committee, a letter was sent to the Ministry for several reports on the supply situation in the Bergens region. The Troll Power report submitted to the Committee refers to a 2007 report. Troll Power has done more work, and it is interesting to see what assessments have been made back in 2007. Will the State Council ensure that the Committee receives the documents requested by the Committee, including the Troll Power to Statoil report from 2007, with the necessary annexes and any other relevant documents?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3833	My remark that there are many people who have learned a lot is a positive invitation that goes both ways. There are several, I think, who need to learn a lot, as a result of this case. Of course, as regards the need for information which the Committee considers to be necessary, the Ministry shall provide the information requested by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3840	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3845	When I arrived at Stortinget in 2005, the People's reaction to power lines in Hardanger was among the first to make contact with me, and there have been many meetings and many rounds before we stand here today. A large local commitment and a national commitment led the government to decide that we should have an additional study on sea cable in the autumn of 2010. I believe that the security of supply in the BKK area is not good enough today, and that measures need to be taken to ensure that security meets the standards required for the rest of Norway and Europe. Following the submission of its reports by the four government-appointed expert committees on 1 February, we have gained new and improved knowledge in order to conclude on the choice of measures to achieve adequate security of supply in the mountainous region. Samples indicate that current security of supply does not meet the requirement to maintain supply even if a line falls out. The samples say that it is technically possible to choose a sea cable, but that it will be significantly more expensive and time consuming to put in place than air voltage. The government fell on, as we know, to build a new power line in the air between Sima and Samnanger. Lack of networking limits economic growth and job creation. The Council of State stated that it had to be developed in the future, which has been neglected for several years. I believe that we cannot allow the BKK area to become a separate price range, which can lead to that in cold winter days we can experience 40–50 pst. increased electricity price in relation to the current situation and at times a significantly higher price than the rest of the country. In addition to the fact that this uncertainty will create restrictions on economic growth and new jobs, a separate price range will also threaten existing industrial workplaces in the mountainous region – an industry that is already struggling with high electricity prices and the effects of the financial crisis. I would also like to highlight the need for a reliable power supply for a high-growth region. We cannot live with the fact that today's situation poses a risk of decoupling and high prices for mountainers and other hordes. I am pleased that the government has concluded, so the work started to ensure safer energy supply and a more even price of electricity. In the wake of the case, the government will look at the process of concession and construction of power lines in order to get a better anchoring locally. It is good, although it does not help those in Hardanger and others who are disappointed that the sea cable option was not chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3868	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3514]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3881	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3889	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Mr Right, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Group 2 by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4 and 5, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 6-8, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 is included in the position on pages 29 and 30, while the proposals No. 6-8 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a flexible parental leave until the age of 12 years’. The voting boards showed that 98 votes were cast against and 0 votes in favour of the Left's proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.13.03]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3921	No one voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3924	I've tried to give up my voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3929	Then we start the watering plant again, so that we get it right in the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3941	There is a vote on proposal No. Seven from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the social rights of self-employed people in order to facilitate the creation of a job for more women by themselves and others.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3958	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of social entrepreneurship by facilitating greater adaptation of government purchasing systems to small actors and by providing them with real opportunities to compete in providing quality and contributing to innovation to public welfare.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3975	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a system which gives all parents the right to parental leave.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the ceiling on pay compensation at maternity leave for equal distribution of parental leave.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e3997	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to file a case for the Storting to set up a pool of skills to raise the salary of the public sector training groups.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4014	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to implement measures to ensure a pay gap for the women’s dominated low-wage professions in the public sector and, as a result, to ensure that municipalities are financially compensated for such a wage increase.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4029	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of the parental leave scheme in order to simplify the current system and to make it more flexible in order to equalise mother and father.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4056	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4132	In the course of the debate, Mr Dahl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By the end of 2011, the government is asking the Grand Duchy to bring an action against the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for a breach of statutory rights.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4191	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A sample is set up to revise the Constitution to establish the constitutional situation of the day, to include fundamental human rights and to renew and make available the language in a way that improves the legal certainty of citizens. The Presidency shall be empowered to lay down detailed terms of reference for the panel, appoint the Chairperson and other members and to provide remuneration for them. The committee itself adopts the secretarial assistance and engages in the expertise it deems necessary.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4241	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward, no. 1 and 2, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to renegotiate the 2006 implementation agreement with a new deadline for full scale clean-up and with an incentive structure that contributes to the timely and cost implementation of the project.’ [[Cooperation on CO2 management in Mongstad]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a renegotiated implementation agreement requires the emissions from the Mongstad refinery to be cleaned.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4287	During the debate Line Henriette Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit an obligatory plan during 2011 to ensure security of supply of electricity and to prevent future power crises.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4315	During the debate, Mr Rudihagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:82 S [[2010-2011]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4362	During the debate, Mr Ström put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:98 S [[2010-2011]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the committee's position. The left has notified that they are supporting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-12.ana.ud2204e4395	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
