ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e24	From the meeting alternate representative of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Jacob Nødseth, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Friday 9 December, under the authority of the representative Bjørn Lødemel, for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Monica Finden, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. Monica Finden is present and will take the seat. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the debate on case No. 1 is divided into two sections to deal first with the budgetary chapters of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration and the Ministry of the Church, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and then with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children, Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Inclusion. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e57	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the two debates be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes each, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. The President will state that the speaking time of the Councils of State will be taken by the speaking time of the Workers' Party. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to four lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In the absence of the chairman of the Committee for the cause of disease, the list of languages will normally be distributed according to the size of the lots. Thus, the first speaker is Mr Ingalill Olsen, and then the representative Mr Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e72	The crisis in Europe is very serious and can affect Norway. Sound economic governance is essential for securing Norwegian businesses and people's jobs. It is also important for Norwegian municipalities. In 2012, the state transfers 285 billion. SEK in the free income of municipalities divided by 138 billion. kr in the form of a framework grant and SEK 147 billion. as tax revenue. The level of municipal tax revenue is closely linked to our success in keeping people in work. Another example is that if the level of interest rates in Norway increases by 1 pst, Norwegian municipalities will receive a expenditure increase of about 1 %. 1 billion. kr. Norway cannot afford to experiment in turbulent times like this. We need safe economic governance. One billion is a lot of money. To illustrate how much money there is, for example, we can operate 1,100 new nursing homes or operate 6,400 kindergartens for that sum. These are examples of the importance of keeping the economy in order. Since 2005, we have had a real growth in total revenues of 49 billion. kr, which is an average annual real growth of 2,7 pst. More money is allocated to municipalities in 2012 than in 2011, despite a sobering arrangement. Many countries in Europe must now cut public funds. Looking at our neighbouring country, the recently resigned government in Denmark proposed in 2010 a long-term savings plan that provided an unchanged level of municipal expenditure from 2010 to 2014. Many municipalities are striving to balance their budgets for 2012. I understand that, but it is up to the government to manage public funds so that it does not affect the Norwegian economy. This means that the municipal sector also notices this. The sector has large sums available, but also large and comprehensive tasks. The municipal sector translates policy decisions into services and concrete policies. When we look at the employment figures for the sector, we see where the money has gone. They have gone to new posts: 46 000 new annual works from 2005 to 2010. 19 100 of these annual works have been established in care – 2 700 of them from 2009 to 2010. There's a lot of numbers, and there's a lot of numbers, but we can simplify it down to the fact that there are 25 people employed every day from 2005 to today. Of the 25 posts created each day, only one has gone to administration. It has been claimed that administrative expenditure is growing in municipalities. That's not right. On the contrary, the proportion of central government in the municipal sector in 2010 was the lowest in 10 years. We are committed to ensuring that the municipal sector operates well and efficiently, so that its citizens get the best possible and best possible welfare services for the money. This takes municipalities and counties in the greatest seriousness. The municipalities do a good job, they do an important job and they deserve full recognition for it. Right-wing people have referred to public employees as ‘faceless bureaucrats’. I don't see it as a honorary word. Every municipality must be administered. If not, they will not be able to perform their tasks. Some people have to send an invoice for municipal fees, tell them that your son has been given a place in the nursery and write minutes from municipal government decisions. In addition, each municipality must have an appropriate procedure, and it actually requires case handlers. This means that administration is necessary in order for a municipality or county to be able to fulfil its obligations under laws, regulations and administrative provisions. We need to continue a refurbishment and streamlining work in the public sector. The Government aims to renew, strengthen and improve the public sector. The aim is better service to citizens, possible rationalisation and an improved level of service. The population has, through the 2010 large population survey, clearly expressed their satisfaction with the services of Norwegian municipalities. The survey is the largest national survey of satisfaction with public services ever conducted. It shall be repeated every two years and provide the government with a sound factual basis for renewing public services and for strengthening the welfare society. It's about two things. It is about the willingness to give priority, and it is about the fact that in some areas the public sector needs to address the tasks differently – for example through technological solutions. Renewal work is good and you have to keep doing that. If you want to succeed, you need security at work. What they do not need is uncertainty as to whether the workplace should be exposed to competition, or a risk of poorer pay and working conditions. The working party believes that safe people create more. Business, for its part, is served by good public welfare services. And it does not weaken competitiveness, rather on the contrary. Businesses benefit from a well-trained workforce and high levels of professional participation. The welfare state and sound state governance also act as a buffer in bad times, which also benefits business. Municipalities have increased their number of employees, as shown earlier. In addition, they have upgraded their buildings. KS reports that it was invested for nearly 10 billion. kr at primary school in 2010 and it amounted to more than 20 pst. of the total investment framework of municipalities for the previous year. We are aware that the debt burden is high in many municipalities. This is an expression that many municipalities have built up kindergartens, schools and nursing homes at a high rate in recent years. We closely follow the economic situation of the municipalities, but it is also important to remember that each municipality is responsible for its own economy, including its own debt and other liabilities. At the same time, we see that the number of ROBEK municipalities, municipalities that don't manage their own debt, is at a low level. In 2004, after the right had been in government for three years, the number of ROBEK municipalities was 118. There was an increase of 61 from 2001. Since 2007, we have been located between 40 and 50 ROBEK municipalities. It is the lowest level since the ROBEK register was established in 2001. Today there is 51, and the increase is not dramatic, even though the municipalities have had a historically high level of activity. Where do the lines of the opposition's proposals and the government's proposals go? There is no consensus on the management of economic policy on the civil side. It is essential for Norwegian jobs, for the value creation and for the well-being that can be offered in Norwegian municipalities, that the management of the municipal sector is safe and predictable. A bourgeois government will also create considerable uncertainty as to whether municipal income is prioritised as today, or whether it becomes tax cut as under the previous bourgeois government. In addition, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether citizens will ensure a fair distribution between municipalities and equivalent welfare services in Norwegian municipalities. I believe Norwegian municipalities are well served by the adoption today of the draft budget of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e103	I don't think the representative of Ingelill Olsen needs to worry that that setting is not accepted here today – but if it's good for Norwegian municipalities, it's quite different. Now the Labour Party boasts that it has never been transferred as much money to Norwegian municipalities as it is today and next year. This is true, but at the same time, things are becoming more expensive, there are more inhabitants in Norway, we have an ageing population, and the municipalities are also being imposed more demands from both the government and the magnificence. KS has estimated that next year there will be 800 million missing. kr only to maintain the service provision of the day. If we assume that that's right, what about my representative, Ingarill Olsen, that Norwegian municipalities are going to go down next year, compared to what they're offering today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e112	There is no doubt that this year's arrangement is tighter than before, it has been reported by the government. It has a connection with the international situation in which Norwegian municipalities are also affected. We are aware, as I said in my post, that many municipalities are striving to get into port. But at the same time, we're going to go along, and we're going to think that the setup is going to be good, and we're going to be able to cover the problems. But that also means that the municipality needs to be carefully prioritised, as the municipality has known. I myself have been the rapporteur under a civil government and have had many more difficult prioritisation tasks than the municipalities do today, but – as I said – the international situation also puts us on a test, but not as the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e117	In five out of seven red-green management years, the growth in free income of municipalities has been significantly lower than in 2004 and 2005, i.e. during the famous starvation of Norwegian municipalities for which Erna Solberg stood and which the red-greens like to highlight. Then it was higher growth than it has been in five out of seven red-green management years. It was an exception in 2006, when the new government joined and was going to fulfill all the promises. But after that, growth has fallen sharply, and debt has doubled – today, Norwegian municipalities have doubled their debt ratio since 2005 and are now indebted to over 40 billion. kr. Ingulill Olsen was concerned that an increase in the interest rate of 1 pst. That means 1 billion. kr more in liabilities of municipalities. Is Ingarill Olsen comfortable with the fact that Norwegian municipalities have loans to over pipe, and that the risk of large payment difficulties can increase with an interest rate increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e124	As I said to the previous replicant, I was delighted to be rapporteur also under the previous government. At least my municipality was in the situation that we had to cancel a very large number of employees at the time of the government change in 2005. We were rescued by the gong, because in 2005 extra funds were spent. So if we see the period from 2005 to now, it's been higher growth -- on average 2.7 pst. Obviously, it varies between years, but with the growth we have seen in the municipalities, it is quite clear that there has been much more funding. The indebtedness rate is also an expression for that. There has been a lot of activity in the municipalities, but at the same time it is the municipality's own responsibility not to borrow more than they can answer for. But I worry about the interest rate level, and so does the government. That's why it's now the tight structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e129	I think, to the extent that it is good that Mr Olsen is clear that this is a tighter budget, because it is quite clear, and that the international crisis is making it necessary for us to serve out the money in a careful and wise way. In one area, however, the Christian People's Party is questioning the red-green budget, and that is what has to do with the House Bank's framework and the ability to be an actor in terms of, among other things. social housing, to be done. This year, they've put in a loan framework of 15 billion. kr. They did that last year, but they quickly got on the track and increased the frames to 20 billion. kr, as we in the Christian People's Party had proposed in our alternative budget, and as we have also proposed this year. When Ingelill Olsen tells you to keep up with what's going on, is there any chance that you're actually going to do the same thing next year that you did last year, that you're going to increase the frames, so there's not going to be a break in social housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e136	Social housing is a very important measure to combat housing unemployment and to help those who are disadvantaged enter the housing market and also to help eradicate the poverty line and help people with housing. It's an important area. We have reported that we need to follow along in several areas because these are uncertain times in the world. The government of Stoltenberg has previously shown, in the previous financial crisis, that they are able to reverse and take action when necessary. Such an uncertain international situation will have to be followed from day to day, and I feel absolutely convinced that the government will come back if you see that it is necessary to fill up somewhere in order for us to achieve our goal. Because it is important to maintain well-being and improve the situation, even if there are difficult times in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e141	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e145	The Norwegian state is an extremely rich state. We have more than 3,000 billion. kr on the book in the oil fund, and if we had shared it with all the inhabitants of Norway – from the youngest to the oldest – it would be about. 650 000 kroner per capita. The government budget for next year is budgeted with a surplus of 345.7 billion. kr. That means that we have a surplus of approximately. 1 billion. DKK per day, or $40 million. kr per hour. That means that over the 10 minutes I have speaking time, 7 million will be transferred. kr to the oil fund. In many ways, we can say that Norway has won Lotto. We've discovered huge wealth that our ancestors were not in the vicinity of dreaming that we should find. This means that Norway has completely different possibilities and a completely different starting point than almost all other countries in the world. When we have so much money, and when we have won Lotto in many ways, we have to ask the question, have we solved all the problems in Norway? Did we get rid of all the cows? And around the municipalities, we can ask the populace: Is everything all right in the municipalities? Does all citizens get the services they require? And: does there have money, so that a good thing is to provide the services that the inhabitants have the right to do? Then you get a no back. Local spokesmen, councillors and local politicians struggle to meet ends. It is clear that the demands of the inhabitants will be no less when they see how rich the state is, and when they see how the oil fund grows. Despite the fact that the investments have not been as good, so much money is spent on the oil fund that it has always grown slowly, but surely. KS warns and says this state budget is missing 800 million. NOK to maintain the service provision of the day. The provision of services to citizens in the municipality of Norway today lacks 800 million. kr in order to be able to continue until next year. It's pretty bad, and now, fortunately, the Labour Party admits that the budget is tighter than it has been before – it's less money, and the municipalities have to reduce the provision of services to the inhabitants. But I have to say that I didn't hear any red-green politicians running around in the election campaign talking about the reduction of the service supply. On the contrary, the impression was that the services offered to the inhabitants of Kommune-Noreg were to be strengthened and not built up over the years to come. But the Progress Party takes note that the municipalities are getting too little money. That's why we have a plus 3 billion. kr to care for the elderly, to the ground school, to municipal child protection, municipal dormant care and psychiatry, including 250 million. kr to an increase in the apprentice incentive. And then we have a plus 4 billion. DKK in interest-free loans to municipalities and also 800 million. kr to resource-requiring services in addition to the proposed government lot. This means that we can lower the point of impact and also increase the degree of compensation to 85 pst. Of course, there is a proposal that is already downgraded and further downgraded. We just have to take note of that. In any case, it is not just money that is needed to get rid of the cows in Kommune-Noreg. We also have to get a system change. We need to get to a system where customers -- the users -- become an income for those who provide these services, and not a cost, as it is today. This means that we have to implement the market mechanisms. The market has made us queue no other places in society. If you buy a car, you buy a washing machine, you get it by day. It's the market that regulates it. There are no politicians going in and saying how many washing machines to sell, and how many cars to be offered in the market. This is the market that regulates itself, and it works. Now we had enough queues to buy cars in the post-war period, too, when the politicians regulated this, but when one left this to the market, it got solved. The Soviet Union went away from the plan economy. This is because the market economy works well and the plan economy works badly. We have an example in Norway today that recipients of resource-requiring services have to move half the country around to get the services they think they have a right to. There was a report a while ago on TV2 about a family who had moved from Alta to Vågsøy because there were bad services in Alta, in the municipality of Vågsøy there were good services. So they had to move half the country around to get the services they needed and needed. The paradox in this is that it is the municipality that provides poor services – which means that the inhabitants move out of the municipality – that receives a financial gain, whereas it is the municipality that provides good services, which means that residents move in to the municipality to accept these services, which loses economically. So it's quite the opposite of how it's otherwise in society -- that those who provide good services get a profit and a income from it, and those who provide bad services go out of business after a while. That's why our proposal, which we have all the time, is that we need to have a state-run, need-driven, price-driven financing of basic welfare services in the municipalities. Only then can we get rid of the cows. Then municipalities can budget with it and know how much they have to go with when it comes to providing resource-requiring services such as health care facilities, care for the elderly, etc. Then you get this funded by the state, just like you get funded if you get unemployed or sick or get an old age pension. In addition, it is important that a bureaucratise and simplify, and that one also gives municipalities greater autonomy. That is why we have proposed that we phase out the county office in four years. They shall be replaced by a national administrative court. We also want to phase out the municipalities over four years, with a division of tasks to both the state and the municipality, mainly to the municipality. It'll also be a simplification. This must be followed up by greater autonomy for municipalities, especially in the area of coastal zones. Because today, a lot of resources are being lost, there is a conflict between them, for example. municipalities and counties, when the county comes to object to elected decisions in the municipalities when building in the so-called coastal zone. So here's a win-win situation. The municipalities are given greater autonomy, a simpler rule, so that they can control their construction – control the municipalities – and save money, both in the municipalities and by laying down the county office and county municipality. This means that one has more resources left to provide services to its inhabitants. So you get more services for each of the heads that the municipalities have at their disposal. In addition, it is important to facilitate a larger and more robust municipality. Today, the point is that municipalities have no incentive to merge. That's why we think that we need to phase out the small-scale community initiative, and we need to fully compensate in the form of a one-time payment for the present value of other income reductions that one gets by merging, such as. base attack. As a result, no one loses their way together. In that case, I will only resubmit the proposals in the setting that the Progress Party is behind, either alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e177	The representative Gjermund Hagesetter then brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e182	After this article I have up to several questions. I think I have to clear up a couple of obvious misunderstandings first. When the representative Hagesetter says that a sober budget means that municipalities need to reduce, there is a completely different perception. It gives the municipalities the opportunity to continue a high level of activity. So that doesn't mean that the municipalities have to cut. Then the representative repeats the misunderstanding that the nation's wealth is primarily linked to its financial assets. The national budget shows that most of our wealth is in the value of future income. However, my question to the representative needs to be: when he talks about introducing state-run, demand-driven, single-cost financing, while at the same time talking about the need for less bureaucracy and less state-driven over-management, I cannot help but understand that a state legislation that red tapes the efforts of municipalities in important welfare areas will lead to more bureaucracy and less space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e191	This is no longer going to be bureaucracy; this is going to be less bureaucracy. So when someone has to have a service in the municipalities and you have to document if someone has a service requirement, and what kind of service it is, you have to go through a process to figure it out. Of course, the same process has to go through now, even though it is the state that is funding this. Local authorities must be responsible for this, regardless of whether the municipalities provide the services or whether there is someone who chooses to go to private to perform these services. But the bill is to be sent to the state, just as if you become unemployed and get unemployment benefit from the state, and if you get sick and after a while get sick money from the state, the pension, etc. This is an automatic system in which there will be less bureaucracy and no more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e196	The progress party is talking on the one hand with concern about municipal maritime governance, and now we heard in the article here today that they are concerned that some people find that it is better to live in another municipality, that they simply move on to get a better life somewhere else. But my question is that the Progress Party will complete the funding model for the municipalities and have the government take over school, the elderly, health and care. What, then, is left for the local politicians? We know of such state acquisitions from other areas, and the question is: Does the Progress Party believe that health businesses are a good example of follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e203	This is not a talk of health professionals. We could go into a long discussion about health services and what works there and not, but there is simply too much framework funding and too little effort-driven funding that is one of the problems, and that makes it queue. In the case of municipalities, municipalities are still responsible for the basic welfare services, but the funding is to come from the country. When you have documented a need for a service, this should trigger central funding. When it comes to resource-requiring services, there is a partial funding from central government and a number of other things. This is nothing new. In the past, child care funding was also provided in this way, where government funding was provided in relation to the number of children’s homes. This is a very good system, which I hope we will have introduced after the 2013 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e210	The Progress Party wants to remove the small municipal subsidy in order to force the municipalities to merge. I am by no means opposed to voluntary community reunification. This can in many cases make sense. I am surprised, however, that only the central party rapporteurs find that it makes sense to merge municipalities, and that there are no progress party rapporteurs who have found it out, but now leave it alone. The reason that small municipalities are more expensive to operate is not that there is a low population, but that there are large geographical distances. It won't be cheaper to run home health care in two small municipalities if they join one municipality. Services will be equally expensive to operate. If we assume that we have a common goal that we're all going to have equivalent services here in the country, how are the smallest municipalities, for example. Utsira, if they join another small municipality, could deliver equivalent services to their inhabitants within a much worse community framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e217	We have said that in order to advance the merger process, we will go in order to phase out the small municipality over a period of time, for example. 10 years. It's going to be pretty tough, and then one also knows what developments are going to be, and what the economy will look like in ten years' time. This will, of course, cause some small municipalities to have problems in being independent. Of course, the Utsira, with 214 inhabitants, will have problems if they lose their small community budget at the top of 4 million. kr. In a merger, of course, those who live in the Utsira should have just as good services, but they don't have to sit out there with their own spokesmen, their own vice-presidents, their own chairmanship, their own control selection, their own councillor and a complete administration and offer all services. It would be better to do it in a merged municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e222	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e225	Of course, the right proposals and opinions in the framework areas currently under consideration, in short, the sectors of the State budget which the Municipal Committee has as its work area, are consistent with the Alternative State Budget of Right and general alternative political and economic thinking. What is different from the red-green government, and which is a red thread in the Right option, is that we see something stronger and emphasize something stronger that the Norwegian welfare depends on us being able to invest more in knowledge and competitiveness, while the left-hand budgetary policy is often more effort-oriented, without being so careful about what the money is doing. Then you get a sense that the money is created in what they're granted. Right-wing alternative thinking is that we have respect for the fact that there are some people who have financed all the public activity, and that we therefore owe the taxpayers that the public funds are alternatively used more favourably when they are to be used in public, and that they are otherwise being returned to businesses and to the household. We want to bet on the municipalities as one of the building blocks of democracy, and we want to make the municipalities as robust as possible. We want there to be a real basis for local democracy. And once again, what's behind it all is that we realize that welfare is not just a question of distribution, but that it's simply a matter of value creation. The government claims that the strong policy of redistribution is important in order to get as many municipalities as possible. So it's a goal in itself that the results on a municipal basis are going to be as similar as possible. Then you can ask, since we've had municipal elections this fall, why do we at all care about arranging municipal elections? We record that the Workers' Party has a centralist thinking and tradition, and has less confidence in a lower level of government. They would like to override local self-government through sectoral policies, allow it to play freely and uncoordinated and with a recapitulation of ideal standards, which do not fit many places locally. For the right, it is important to stress that we have confidence that the priorities needed locally are best known. Therefore, municipalities should also have more power and greater power over their own incomes. With today's arrangement from the government, they get significantly less. We also want a policy to enable municipalities to focus on core tasks, including good alternative solutions, such as: transparency in cooperation with private and voluntary organisations is encouraged and not penalised. Increased municipal autonomy may give rise to disparities between municipalities. But these are positive and dynamic inequalities if such inequalities reflect different policy priorities based on different local circumstances. Today we have that diversity primarily because there are biases and randomities in the income system for municipalities. Our scheme is that we want to create more, not more taxes. In the face of tougher competition, the government has given Norwegian companies a heavy burden with peculiar taxes and taxes. Both municipalities, enterprises and employees must retain a greater share of the values created by them, thus contributing to new investments and new growth later on. We have seen that the Right proposes to increase the minimum deduction for employees, to reduce the peculiar wealth tax that affects Norwegian businesses and jobs, and to allow municipalities to retain a greater share of corporate tax in their own municipality, instead of with today's system, where everything goes to the state and then is reclassified according to political criteria. We believe it is important that municipalities also receive a reward to facilitate a business-friendly and business-friendly climate. Otherwise, we have recorded that it is again a budget orientation and very few instruments aimed at modernising the public sector. Despite the fact that the government has ruled the country during a historic process with almost unlimited access to financial resources, there is little priority to enable Norway to better meet the future. We will once again underline the offer of local policy to get a popularly elected body to also help to give priority — one of the most difficult politicians is to prioritise — and local politicians with real powers will help the central decision-making level to take good priority decisions at local level. We see that many municipalities are too small, making them minimum municipalities and very dependent on the exact transfers they receive. The smaller the municipalities, the more dependent they are on earmarked grants. We then want to use positive tools to make the municipalities realize that they have the advantage of merging, and that in this way we get less used for administration, build up greater competences and more comprehensive professional environments that can provide a better offer to the population. The government is proposing a growth in the free income of the municipal sector of 3.75 billion. kr in 2012. This is a real growth of 1.3 pst. And KS estimates that this is about 800 million. kr less than what a mere continuation of today's service offer will require, if account is taken of demography and increased pension costs in the local government sector. And I refer to the line we had before this post, which just illustrates this paradox that we have an automatic increase in expenditure, which means that we still have to increase real transfers to the local government sector, without being sure that it leads to better provision for the population, which is, after all, for which we have to. Then I'll draw attention to two aspects. One is the forthcoming cooperation reform, which is properly followed up with a total of 740 million proposals. kr and a transfer of 5,6 billion. kr from the health enterprises of the municipalities’ framework grants. The reform includes, inter alia: that the municipalities will assume responsibility for so-called pre-treated patients from the first day, with a daily rate of NOK 4000, and at a time when it is not known whether the municipalities have been able to build up alternative treatment and rehabilitation services. It is a reform introduced under a very strong time pressure, and without certainty that the municipalities will come out of it satisfactorily. The right-hand option is to gradually build up the offer in the municipalities through free and earmarked funds and not to penalise municipalities with such fees if they use hospitals. We want to avoid the municipalities being pressured into making an irresponsible offer, and it's not just the concern of the municipalities that makes us stress this, it's actually the concern of the patients. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that, during the Committee's examination of the budget, there was information in the press about the introduction of enhanced capital requirements, i.e. the winding-up of the start-up loan scheme. Thus, the house bank has been a useful tool for supplementing the ordinary credit market by making available loans that would not otherwise come from the private banking sector. We have shown that we predominantly have good experience with start-up loans, which are disseminated through the municipalities. In practice, a not insignificant part is refinanced, where households are at risk of being forced to leave their apartments. As a rule, municipalities have good governance with such refinancing. It's very little default. 27 municipalities that have responded to a survey say that this reinforced self-financing requirement will in practice be the same as winding up the scheme. We have emphasised very strongly in a note that we see that the Financial Supervisory Authority is instructed by the government not to have soundness rules that in this case throw the child out with the bath water, or hit the legs under a social housing scheme. I would also like to refer to the vote, where the Right's proposals are described in more detail, and I would like to make an explicit mention of these proposals from this House.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e257	The representative Michael Tetzschner has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e263	The world around us is marked by great economic uncertainty, and it is more important than ever to keep order in the economy. State over-consumption has serious consequences for the economy and people's jobs. This government conducts a responsible economic policy and has shown that it can run through challenging economic times. Can the Right guarantee that in the event of a possible bourgeois government, the Progress Party will not have an impact on its economic policy, which I believe is also considered irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e268	It is interesting to have questions about such a central theme in a case that concerns the local economy! I fully agree that it is not appropriate to derogate from the rule of action. We have, after all, a national assembly with a majority of parties on guard against the rule of action, so the political weight will mean that the rule of action will not be touched, unless a majority in the Grand Duchy so wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e275	On the right, the company tax will return to the municipalities to motivate the municipalities for active economic development. It is tempting for those municipalities who believe that this means that they are getting new money. But they do not, because the municipality today receives the income from the corporation tax, but distributed in the framework grant. So this would well be a proposal that leads primarily to skeptical distribution, and not least quite random over the years. The corporate tax goes where the head office of the company is located, and it is not necessarily where the business is and the value creation takes place. Is this a way to make sure that the municipality of Tetzschner, Oslo, where it is the most head office, gets more money, at the expense of municipalities in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e280	First of all, there are two issues involved. One is whether the value creation is actually done in the municipality and it is reasonable to tax in that municipality and that the head office may be somewhere else. For administrative reasons, it is natural to collect where the company is registered. So one has to remember that this only applies to some larger companies. The usual Business Norway consists of small businesses with less than 15 employees, and then it will be very little relevant with head office problems. So it's a very marginal problem issue that the replicator points to. The second is the redistribution. Yes, we have other elements in the income system for the municipalities that are set to smooth out biases that you don't want, i.e. the discretionary means. So there's another problem that you can solve through the discretionary means.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e287	Right is a party that often talks about development and innovation, about entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship, and that's good if it doesn't just get talked about. But the reality is that the nutritious party is right-cutting 1,500 million. kr in regional development and innovation. This government has been the most nutritious government in many decades. 250,000 new jobs have been created since 2005, two out of three of them in the private sector. We also have the lowest unemployment rate across Europe. How to cut development funds of 1,500 miles. could provide regional development and innovation and create entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e292	The replicator suggests that growth and well-being and private enterprises grow through regional grants. We others believe that the reason we have wealth in society is that we have good products that people are willing to buy. Therefore, our alternative approach is lower taxes on businesses, making it easier to produce goods at competitive prices, higher turnover, higher profits and, in fact, at the other end, higher tax revenues. So we have another system. The red-greens believe that jobs are created by decision. They only do that in one sector, and it is if you put on red tape or other jobs that depend on the profits of others, namely taxpayers and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e297	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e300	It is particularly important to debate the Norwegian state budget this year. While we are discussing whether an increase in municipal income of a few billion is sufficient, the rest of Europe is making significant cuts in important welfare services. While we disagree on how health services are to be financed between the state and the municipality, the rest of Europe is cutting off the health service. While we're not sure if the municipalities have enough people to give the people the care they're entitled to, unemployment in the rest of Europe is at a record level, especially among the young. Our favourable economic situation is also about luck and oil revenue. But I would also like to stress that we have conducted an economic policy that enables us, as one of the very few countries in our continent, to carry out a budgetary procedure without having to do deep cuts in schools, hospitals and transportation. There's reason to be proud of that. It's not getting out of hand; it's because there's a responsible economic policy. There is something that representatives of the Progress Party should note. Crisis times are not the time for economic experiments. 2012 will not be a year of celebration with regard to the municipal budgets. It is a tight and responsible budget, which does not provide much room for action. We are limited by both a tax levy and for the sake of an export industry which means that we cannot have an excessive budget. However, the municipalities have to cover increased costs as a result of the increase in the number of citizens who cost the municipalities money, namely the oldest and the youngest. And it's spent on increasing pension costs, but not much more. Since 2005, the red-green government has increased the income of municipalities by 49 billion. kr, half of which has been free income. It has allowed municipalities to increase the number of people working in schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly. Under Bondevik II, 8,600 more employees were employed in the municipalities. In the time of the red-green government there have been 46 000. There are 25 new employees every day – 24 of them in welfare production, only one in administration. One of the main challenges facing Norwegian society in the years to come is the increasing number of older people. A worthy care for the elderly in the future will require a lot of Norwegian municipalities, especially in relocation areas. This will put pressure on the service offer in all municipalities. An important response to this is the cooperation reform. With increased responsibility for the provision of services to the population, municipalities will be able to see the whole of the health service. At least as important is the fact that the municipalities that are good at preventing health problems are also able to take part in the benefits of prevention. In the long term, we believe that this will lead to a much greater focus on prevention. It'll be an advantage for everyone, not least the individual, who gets better health. Next year, the first steps of the Cooperation Reform will be put into practice. There will probably be many entry problems associated with this, and this is probably the grip of next year's budget that will have the greatest consequences in the future. 5.6 B.C.E. kr is transferred to the municipalities. At the same time, I would like to point out the comments of the Red-Green parties that the government must follow closely the implementation and funding of the Cooperation Reform and come back to the Storting if necessary. It's in the municipalities the welfare is produced. There is an almost unlimited need to strengthen efforts in municipalities. I think we should have great ambitions. It is those who believe that we have now reached the borders of the welfare state or the welfare municipality. I strongly disagree with that. Growth in social productivity will continue to provide room for growth in public welfare as well. Our space for action lies in a redistribution from growth in the private sector to common welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e322	The representative talks about the importance of prevention in municipalities and that it is the municipalities that provide welfare services. I fully agree with that. We have recently seen in the media some examples that child protection has some challenges, and child protection is, of course, the responsibility of municipalities. Some suggest that the only thing needed in child protection is more money and higher skills. Does the representative see it as the only way to solve the problems of child protection, or could it be possible for a person to have to undergo a major restructuring of Norwegian child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e329	I think child protection needs more money. I do not think the answer is an increased transfer of the responsibility that is currently in the municipalities, to the state. But I see that we have a competence problem in smaller municipalities, which the municipalities must be able to solve in cooperation between municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e335	SV has arranged and has got the entire red-green government to change the cash support and remove it for 2-year-olds, which means that the pressure on kindergartens and the need for kindergartens will increase from the autumn of 2012. The government's budget has allocated funds to 1,100 children's playgrounds, but the need will lie somewhere between 5000 and 10000. Then my question to SV: Does SV accept that it now becomes kindergarten cows, or will they point to the municipality and say that this is the municipality's responsibility? It will be in the case of municipal politicians who become the lifting breakers, because they do not have enough money to build the kindergartens for which there will be a need.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e342	SV does not accept that there will now be new kindergarten cows. I believe that it is also stated in the comments from the red-green parties that if the amount set up in the budget for the construction of kindergartens as a result of the change in cash support is not enough, the government has to follow up and make more money – at least SV believes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e347	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e350	The municipalities have the overall responsibility for the provision of well-being in our country, and I am deeply pleased that in a relatively sober budget we continue to prioritise growth in the municipal sector. It's going to add up to a real growth of 5 billion. NOK, which corresponds to 1.4 pst. Of the total growth, 3.75 million. kr as free resources. The growth of free resources facilitates a continuing high level of activity in the municipal sector and enables municipalities to expand a service provision in line with population development. Compared to other European countries, it is an incredibly positive municipal budget. We don't have to go beyond Denmark to find examples of the opposite. It is proposed to freeze the municipal budgets from 2010 to 2014. The situation in e.g. We all know about Spain and Greece. The main thing about the centre party is geographical and social cohesion, and we have to create to be able to share. Therefore, we will give priority to a social model that provides a good basis for creating values, a model of good welfare arrangements and equivalent services wherever in the country you want to live. We will give priority to that over tax havens. The combination model with low taxes and high welfare levels has been tested over time in, for example: Greece, and everyone knows how it went. Such a model would work equally poorly in Norway. In January 2012, the phase-in of the Cooperation Reform begins. 5.6 B.C.E. kr has been transferred from health enterprises to municipalities in the 2012 budget. The interaction reform will bring citizens closer to the services and is the largest relocation of skills jobs that has ever taken place. The reform is absolutely necessary to meet population developments. We will have an increasing share of older people and thus an increased need for care services. The interaction reform shifts focus from repair to prevention and will enable municipalities to solve an increasingly large part of the health and care sector. Earmarked grants for day care services to demente will be an important prevention factor. I have noticed that there is some uncertainty around the country about how this will work, and I have a great understanding of that. It is therefore important to clarify that the municipalities that are not able to take all these tasks now have the opportunity to purchase services from health enterprises during a transitional period. As municipalities are able to take on more and more tasks, more resources will also be released for preventive health work. The start-up phase of a new reform is constantly linked to uncertainty, so the majority of the Committee therefore asks the government to: ‘following the implementation and funding of the interaction reform closely and return to the Storting as necessary’. Regional development funds shall contribute to the achievement of national and county municipal regional development objectives. The county has a specific responsibility as a regional development operator. The county has local knowledge and the ability to coordinate. SIVA is increased by 5.9 million. kr. This will double its scope from 2010 to 2012. The centre party believes it is a good start for further investment in this important work. The government is proposing 20 million. SEK for a new grant for increased housing provision in municipalities with small housing markets and lack of housing. For those of us who come from small districts, it is a well-known problem that housing stops because the resale value of new dwellings is below the construction costs. I hope this pilot scheme with grants for housing in the districts will be successful and that the scheme can be strengthened in the years to come. In a country where the butter crisis has the front page of the country's newspapers day after day, we are incredibly privileged. The butter crisis is the one that worries us, not the heavy cuts in welfare systems. On the contrary, we have received 25 new jobs each day in the municipal sector in recent years, 24 of them in the provision of services. We have had 250,000 new jobs since 2005, and two thirds of them have been in the private sector. We are committed to a continued real growth in the municipal sector, and it will provide more hands in the provision of services, better service to citizens and still good services to an increasing population.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e382	Municipalities are now struggling with their budgets for 2012. Individual municipalities that do not want to impose an additional tax on their inhabitants and therefore have not introduced a property tax will be punished. Does the Central Party think it's okay for district municipalities to put out alleys and cut in the old age care because they haven't introduced property taxes, and so do discretion funds go wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e387	I'm glad I get that question. I myself have been in a municipality where we have tried to avoid property taxes, but we have introduced it, and the property tax provides opportunities for better services. I don't feel like the schools need to be laid down because one doesn't introduce property taxes. Often it is that one has not disposed of his means reasonably in advance. The property tax also provides funds from the tenants. Many small municipalities complain that they have a lot of spending on leisure homes. One way to compensate for this is, for example: to introduce taxes on property. Now, of course, I wish we didn't have that treasure. Most taxes are unpopular, especially taxes imposed by municipalities, but I believe it is an important contribution that they also exploit their potential on that income side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e396	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e399	For the Christian People's Party, the principle of subsidiarity is a guiding principle, and we assume that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. Of course, it assumes that the distribution of power and funding are such that both municipalities and county councils have the means to carry out their tasks. The municipality is an important provider of welfare services, perhaps the most important one. This requires both predictable and good municipal economy, and there must be consistency between the local authority's tasks and the municipality's finances. This means that state reforms and impositions must be followed up with sufficient free means. It hasn't happened. As a result, there has been a large gap between the population's expectations for welfare goods and the economic power of the municipality. This fact is probably also one of the reasons why the working party rapporteur in Sande gave the committee a very important reminder when we were on committee tour there: don't go out and promise things that we can't hold. In other words, don't make us breakers. It was a very good advice this rapporteur gave to the committee. The Christian People's Party has received many feedback on a tight community economy. Local politicians must cut the operating budgets for both school and health, including care for the elderly and the supply of dementia and your relatives. It's sad when we see that the municipalities have to cut in as important welfare areas as this. The guarantee of dignity, or the provision of a worthy care for the elderly, is an excellent checklist of how care should be taken. It can be used by both employees, relatives and politicians to get a quick overview of how it really is. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health said in the election campaign that if there was a breach of the regulations, you could complain – and thank you for that! There have been reports that relatives have become more aware that they can and should complain when they experience a lack of care, while many employees are positive to get help to focus on what they themselves consider to be professionally irresponsible. Politicians should also use the guarantee of dignity as a checklist for the performance of a worthy care for the elderly. But how can politicians do the right priorities if the truth of the professional judgements in relation to soundness and legal and regulatory requirements is to be squandered in order to fit into a too tight economic community framework? The Christian People's Party will refer to its alternative state budget, where we, among other things, has proposed 750 million. In order to increase free income, municipalities can increase the quality of care for the elderly, inter alia. in the case of more than one home and hospital staff. We also have several other increases in items, such as: is allocated to incentives, to the establishment of day-to-day activities for home-dwelling units. We have also increased efforts in the development of nursing homes and nursing homes, because we see that it is important that we are on the track and enable municipalities to invest in this area, so that the guarantee of dignity actually becomes more than words, that it is also about something concrete. Furthermore, I would like to point out a matter that has been very common. This applies to user-controlled personal assistance. The government has refused very much to legislate for this right. The Christian People's Party is increasing the budget by 150 million. NOK to get this in place. At the risk of my being accused of being a little light on the wire, I would nevertheless praise the government for increasing the allocation of child protection. I really appreciate that. We know that there is a great need for more money and more competent labour force in child protection. However, the efforts of the government are not big enough. The 50 million. kr that the government is investing in increased funds will help something on the way, but it is not far enough to achieve the goal set by the Christian People's Party, namely to achieve full child protection by 2017. It's a crossroads of thought that today we can give every child a nursery place, but we can't afford to give every child a safe and healthy home. There we need more effort to be able to assist in such an important area. Finally, I address the suggestions in the setting that the Christian People's Party has alone or stands with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e425	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e431	The political divides in Norway are considered relatively small, and they go across blocks. Government options already speculate after the choice. The Labour Party is busy developing the County Municipality as an important regional actor. On the other hand, the Progress Party and the Right will bring down the County Municipality. How does the Christian People's Party view this? Is the party best placed to work with the Labour Party's position in relation to the county municipality, or is it good to cooperate with the Progress Party and the Right in the development of the county municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e438	I'm glad of that question. The Christian People's Party is not in line with the Right Party and the Advance Party in the matter of bringing down the County. We see the county municipality as an important actor, and it is not the Christian People's Party's policy to put it down. We've been very clear on that before. Nevertheless, I would be allowed to say – when the Labour Party representative challenges me on this – that we very much agreed with the regional reform that we were going through for some years ago. That regional reform was probably not what the Christian People's Party had thought. There was virtually nothing of it, except that the county council was responsible for very many extra worn highways. It was the regional reform. It wasn't much talk, but the three-level model that we have today is also the Christian People's Party's future policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e443	When the Right talks about giving the private sector bigger playrooms before e.g. care services, we feel that they are busy with market opportunities, market sector and profit. As I see it, the Christian People's Party is occupied by eight voluntary organizations, i.e. professional actors, but with ideal owners – what the Labour Party believes is an important difference in mentality. The question is: Does the Christian People's Party mean that they are close to the Right Party or the Labour Party in the view of the use of private solutions in the public sector, and how will the Christian People's Party address this question by any Progress Party-Right-Centre-government in Norwegian politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e450	It's quite right that the representative points out that the Christian People's Party has been very concerned with the non-profit sector, even when you get into what's relevant to the care sector. If we're closer to the Workers' Party? Over the last few years, we have seen that the tendering regime for which the Workers' Party is responsible has actually caused the non-profit sector to be squandered. A policy has been pursued that is completely across what the Christian People's Party stands for and wants. Therefore, I think it is a little strange that a representative from the Workers' Party asks this question and later as if he is very concerned about the non-profit sector, for practical policy shows that the Workers' Party is against the opposite. We're looking at how the non-profit sector has been squandered for many, many years. But it is right that the representative points out – we are more concerned with the non-profit sector, and we have shown that on many occasions in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e457	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e460	The left is not represented in the Municipal Committee during this period. However, I would like to take this opportunity to add some general comments to the vote of the municipal committee on next year's government budget, among other things. in the light of the priorities of the Left in its own alternative state budget. On a general level, I will start by giving the government right on one point, the municipal budgets have increased in recent years. In fact, there has been quite a growth in some fields – it will probably also underline the Minister for Local Affairs when she is going to make her contribution, as she always does when it comes to municipal economics. It is not so strange that there has been a growth, all the time when the state budget has grown considerably in recent years. But the big problem is that it's all, mostly, i.e. virtually everything is linked to tied tasks and tied funds. The other opposition lots are affected by this in several notes in the adjustment. The problem is that most of this, from the local authorities' point of view, is tied up in wage and price increases and increased pension costs. On behalf of the Left, I would like to warn against an ongoing legislative process of tasks within the area of responsibility of the municipality. Although apparently good intentions can be given to legislating a specific measure, the sum of everything that is legislating may lead to a significant narrowing of the administrative area. Here in Oslo we had in some urban areas very good work training measures until Nav was established. Then the city was required to take its own measures to purchase government services. This is an unfortunate development for local democracy, and it is unfortunate when it comes to the ability of the municipality to find specific solutions for the benefit of its citizens. The major challenge in the municipal sector in the time to come is to renew the welfare state. We do that best by delegating power downwards, from state to municipality, but also by building up more competences in municipalities. If we're going to be able to do just that, there's a need for larger and more robust municipalities. These include: that very many of the services that citizens need are increasingly guided by skills. In the municipalities in the future, it becomes more important with more wise heads, not just more hands. We simply need a certain size of the unit that is going to offer the good solutions to its citizens. If a secure future is to be well-being, one will not avoid talking about municipal structure. It may not be a popular message for the Center Party to hear, but it doesn't make it any less important for that reason. One of the important areas in this setting is regional development. In this connection, I would like to remind you that SIVA has established 50 incubator environments all over the country. Ownership of these is shared between SIVA, private business, municipalities, county municipalities, universities and colleges. The key to success is that the environments can use each other's strengths. Each year, 150 new entrepreneurs are helped to grow and develop. Since the start-up of the incubator programme in 2000, more than 1 000 enterprises have been given this opportunity. Incubation produces results in the form of solid jobs and increased value creation, which we need more. At the same time, several evaluations of the Incubator Facility show that the innovation environment is too poorly funded. By increasing investment in incubation, we can develop 300 to 400 new businesses per year, instead of around 150, as today. This will also produce results in the form of returns and increased tax revenue. Since 2004, each krone used via SIVA has generated values equal to 16,5 kroner. It's a good economy. In the alternative government budget of the Left, we are therefore proposing to double SIVA’s programme funding with an increased budget of 55.5 million. NOK 150 million and an increase in equity. kr. An important area in the setting is privacy. Strong privacy is essential both for individual freedom and for democracy. Freedom requires that every human being be protected against improper registration, monitoring and interference in private life. Privacy is today either under a strong pressure or on the waving front in many areas. The left considers that there is a need to strengthen the institutions that protect the privacy of Norwegian society and, in our alternative state budget, have increased the funding of the Swedish Data Protection Authority by 5 million. kr, including 3 mill. kr for operation of the service deletemeg.no. Moreover, several of the main actions of the Left in our alternative state budget are within the area of action of the municipalities, even though it does not coincide with the framework areas of the Municipal Committee. With regard to our commitment to school, health, transport and child protection, to mention something, I would refer to the financial situation and to the debates of the respective professional committees. Finally, I would like to know that the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, 2, 5, 20, 22 and 23 during voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e490	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e493	On the Left Party's websites, there are quite strong words about the municipal budget. But if I have understood the representative Elvesuen correctly, the Left does not propose to increase the framework for the municipalities, only to redeploy within the narrow frameworks of which a broad majority agrees, among other things. by amending the rules on corporation tax. This means, in reality, that the Left takes away from tax-deprived municipalities and gives them to taxpayers. Is that correctly understood? Or will the Left, like the Advance Party, add money that we don't have?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e498	There are no increased appropriations for municipalities, except for those within the other areas. Among other things, we have a commitment to increased social assistance rates, we are committed to strengthening school health services. There are several items in our alternative budget that will also intervene in the economy of the municipalities. That's right. Otherwise there's a change, too, so that corporate tax can come back to the municipalities. It is also part of our alternative proposal. It is about the distribution between municipalities and not the size as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e507	The Elvesu talked about municipal structure. In my opinion, there are two reasons why you can look at municipal mergers. One is, as some argue, that larger units are economically profitable, i.e. efficiency argumentation. I don't have much faith in that. The other is, as someone points out, the spread of inter-municipal cooperation, which is difficult to rule politically, and which weakens local democracy. There might be some kind of argument that I understand more. What kind of argument will Elvesuen focus on? This also applies to who is to be determined and to who is to decide municipal mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e512	Better health services, better child protection and better schooling are the aim of larger units, in order to get larger professional environments and better qualified staff. We believe that this will not be sufficiently achieved through inter-municipal cooperation. You also need larger units. It is quite right that there are major – what we should say – democratic problems with only inter-municipal cooperation by not getting the same anchor in the larger elected bodies of each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e520	It was the representative of Elvestuen's response to my first line that made me draw again. I just want to clear up a misunderstanding. It is not the case that corporate tax does not return to the municipalities. It comes back to the municipalities, but it returns to the municipalities with the same key as the other funds the municipalities receive. So the question is, is it that the left only redistributes within the existing framework, or will you join in and add on? Let me also ask another question to the representative in the same round: Need for changes in the municipal structure, yes, well, but how will the Left proceed to get to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e527	The change in corporate tax means a redistribution. Just by going directly, the municipalities that are good at stimulating business life in their own municipality will get more than they would otherwise have. It's part of that redistribution. In terms of municipal structure, the first government should at least do it already now that it can pay to look at aggregation, instead of making it economically more difficult for the municipalities, as it is now. Otherwise, it is clear that this must be a longer process in which the municipalities themselves must be given a great responsibility for how to solve a merger in their areas. You have to bring them with you in such a process. What is the responsibility of the Storting is to set a goal, and then, of course, you have to adopt what will eventually be the result. But this has to be built up from below, you have to involve, and it should be a good process that leads to a result, not a mere redraw of the Norwegian map from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e534	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e537	These are troubled times. Many European countries are struggling with unemployment, budget cuts and low growth. In Norway, we have to be told that these problems can have an impact on competitive industries and communities. We see it all around us. The municipal sector is sensitive to interest rate increases and financial turmoil. It directly interferes with the freedom of action of the municipalities, which in turn could happen to the inhabitants. In such a situation, it is entirely decisive to be financially responsible. It also spells out the municipal structure of the 2012 draft budget. However, let me underline that the scheme facilitates good municipal services in 2012. Even in times of uncertainty with a tight budget, the government prioritises welfare in the municipalities, as we have done since 2005. The bet has seen traces. Municipalities provide more and better welfare services. There have been 46 000 new annual works in the sector, 25 new each day. Of these, 24 went to services, just one to administration. There are over 50,000 children in kindergarten, 29 new children each day. More children than before receive the help of child protection. There have been 19 100 more annual contracts in the care sector. The 2010 survey shows that a majority of those who receive public services are satisfied with the services. We find the most satisfied in municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants. I am also pleased that the red-green government has systematically prioritised both big cities, small towns and medium-sized cities. This hall is also well aware of the investment at the Husbanken, start-up loans and housing support and area investment where living conditions are difficult. New next year is the introduction of measures to increase the supply of housing in municipalities with small and uncertain housing markets and lack of housing. What concerns the construction of buildings in the press area is important to remember that high costs, among other things. are related to the market and parts of the tax system – we subsidise the housing market by between 52 and 53 billion. kr over tax havens. It's not high construction costs just as a result of public regulations, because price developments in housing have been far, far higher than price developments in construction costs. What are the underlying priorities? Yes, a desire to ensure that we have safe and good communities that are equipped for the future, that can evolve for and together with the inhabitants, that can still be with and ensure the well-being and value-creation of our entire country. We have the very best starting point for doing this, even in difficult times. Daily I see Norwegian communities, with their municipalities, voluntary organisations and local entrepreneurs mobilizing for development, innovation and good living conditions. There may be measures to reduce sick leave and increase skills among staff in the Songdalen municipality of West Agder. It may be the communities that will boost housing and local attractiveness by focusing on culturally-based urban and economic development, integration and projects to provide housing and new jobs, or it may be all the municipalities that are working to facilitate the Cooperation Reform, a national public health reform that is just starting out of municipal innovation and cooperation in local medical centres, cooperation between municipalities, between road-led district municipalities. I have respect for the fact that the other party has different solutions and different uses of money than we do in the budget. But I find it difficult to imagine an approach to the areas covered by the budget setting, which is not based on this: that a viable nation must depend on viable local communities, on municipalities with an equivalent service provision. This means that community communities should be proud and self-confident; they should be treated with respect for the big society and the state. They must have armsstrokes to take care of their own inhabitants, whether it's a small municipality, a medium-sized town or a city in a big city. Let me remind you that when we have this year indicated that it is 50 years since the District Development Fund was established, it has been primarily a mark of a successful bet on Norway as a whole. For this reason, it is in favour of the right to demonstrate its unwillingness to invest in regional development and industrial development throughout the country. The district Development Fund has been established and proven to be viable — today the heir is Innovation Norway. We might want to get the best out of the people who live in this country, and the resources we've got from nature, when we bet that the government does. Now it's up to us to manage the values well in the future. This can be achieved by ensuring regional balance and community involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e570	The Minister of Local Affairs is talking about the importance of providing equivalent services throughout the country. Then I have the proposal, which the Ministry of Local Affairs can start working on, and that is to introduce government funding. There will then be no difference between a cage in a rich or poor municipality, if the state takes on the funding of basic welfare services in the municipalities. Listening to the Minister of Local Affairs gives the impression that being a local politician and being added to the municipalities in many ways is a dance of roses. There's no way how great it is. But when you talk to local politicians, there's another picture you get. KS calculates that to maintain your current service supply, KS is missing an 800 million. kr in the State budget as debt for 2012. Then the question is: does the Norwegian municipality minister ever think that Norwegian municipalities should go down, if KS's figures are correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e577	It's a little bit difficult to take the Advance Party seriously. The progress party will support Right. They also want a lot more money in it -- it doesn't want the Right. Right will reintroduce the corporate tax, which for a progressive party municipality like Vardø will mean that a loser is quite formidable. One will take away the regional supplement. In Vardø it will mean a loser of 25.6 million. kr. The cooperation that one sees now, and as one clearly sees it can be an alternative to the next choice, will be a disaster for Kommune-Noreg. It will mean, yes, a growth in tax-intensive municipalities like Oslo, Stavanger, Sola, Bærum, but it will be disastrous for an equivalent service provision in the municipalities that will lose out on a single price – because there is less to distribute the fixed, basic costs on – and lose out on the deletion of all regional policy supplements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e582	Catastrophe notices are serious, and especially when it comes from a government council, so it would be interesting to get a deepening of it. But I want to address another disaster, namely the government's total paralysis of action in relation to the relationship between the state and the municipality. That's where the state council announced last year that Oslo was to be taken. Then it was redefined as the Oslo elite, and then it became the real state, which she herself represents, which was to be taken, in the sense that the municipalities would have greater autonomy. A big message was notified. It was to come – she said on the municipal days – after 22 May, i.e. before the holiday. Then it was said here in Stortinget that it would come before the elections. Okay, we had July 22nd, but now the council says Navarsete in Municipal Report that the message is suspended indefinitely because of internal disagreement in the government. Isn't the Central Party coming forward with its desire for more municipal autonomy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e587	We now have a historically low ear mark on the municipal frame covers. There is an image of the Center Party's desire to give municipalities greater autonomy. It has not always been such that the municipalities can dispose of almost all of the framework according to which the individual municipality finds it desirable. When the representative also wants an in-depth investigation of the disaster alert, he will have it. If the Right's proposal had been agreed in Stortinget, 40 out of 30 would be 30 billion. I have been redeployed for the benefit of 55 largely tax-advanced municipalities. 376 municipalities would lose, that would increase inequality, and it would give the municipalities very different powers to provide municipal services. 64 pst. The country’s inhabitants wanted a poorer offer. Many of the Right Spokespersons are to be commended for not agreeing with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e594	Starting loans are a central instrument designed to help disadvantaged people enter the housing market. So now the Financial Supervisory Authority has considered increasing equity, i.e. the requirement for 15 pst. in the case of the purchase of owner-occupied dwellings, also for starting loans. High housing prices, especially in press areas, make it very difficult to enter the housing market, both for young people and for people with a challenging economy. The start-up loan scheme has been the only option for many people to enter the housing market. Does the Council agree that the proposed amendment would destroy this scheme? And does the Council share the view of the Christian People's Party that start-up loans must be exempted from increased equity requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e603	As stated in the letter from the Ministry of Finance to the Financial Supervisory Authority, start-up loans will also have the same potential in the future to make a particularly important contribution to getting both young people and disadvantaged people into the housing market. I am pleased that both the Municipal Committee and the Financial Committee have clarified that this is the case. The signals are passed on, and they are also the basis for what is to be done in the future. Fortunately, this signal from Stortinget is taken seriously. I am very pleased, as Minister of Municipal Affairs, that we have vigilance committees that come with us and that indicate that such an important scheme as start-up loans does not have to be weakened in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e611	Governments are concerned with local self-government – we are also in the Left – and are also concerned that any municipal mergers must take place on the basis of voluntary action between municipalities. Then my question is, in order for this to be a real volunteer, shouldn't it also be a financial incentive for the municipalities? It should at least not be negative to merge, but to maintain the same economy with a merger that is done by being several smaller municipalities. Does the Council of State agree that there should at least not be negative incentives in the case of community mergers where this occurs by voluntary means?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e618	This government has made it easier to merge, first because we are actively helping to get good processes where one wants to merge. We cover 100 pst. the costs of processes prior to merging. We have extended the divisional style, which gives you a decent economy. It's important for a longer period after one has joined up. If the left was really concerned that the municipalities should have a good financial standing, they would not have suggested reintroducing the corporation tax. It's a system that 383 municipalities will lose weight on. Only 47 municipalities, such as Oslo, Stavanger and Sola – tax-paying municipalities – will win. All vocabularies from the Left will lose on such a system, which is also uninvitable, because it follows the business cycle and does not allow the municipalities to have a decent economy in time. So both the Right and the Left's alternative budget proposals on corporate tax are part of giving municipalities a biased distribution and a less conservative economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e627	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e630	On 1 January 2012, the Cooperation Reform will be launched. The reform shall focus on health promotion and prevention, on rehabilitation and rehabilitation, on user involvement, on agreed treatment processes and binding cooperation agreements between municipalities and hospitals. The reform is based on a central and strengthened role for municipalities in the overall health and care service, including: to ensure better services to the population where they live and to increase the emphasis on prevention efforts. The reform takes the view that the expected growth in the needs of the population for health and care services needs to be found as far as possible in municipalities. It involves the gradual phasing-in of new tasks so that the municipalities are given sufficient time to prepare the necessary changes. New legislation for municipalities and county municipalities will be implemented from 2012. In addition, economic instruments shall be put in place to make cooperation profitable for municipalities and health establishments. This concerns the introduction of municipal co-financing and payment obligations for outsourced patients and the obligation for municipalities to establish daily services for immediate assistance from 2016. Following this in 2012, it is proposed to transfer about 5.6 billion. kr from regional health enterprises to local government framework grants in the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and approximately 130 million. to establish a new grant to the municipalities in the Ministry of Health and Welfare budget for the preparation of daily services for immediate assistance. I guess that's going to be 5.7 billion. kr. And then there's about 750 million. D on the budget of the Ministry of Health and Health for various measures. No municipality can be expected to be ready to implement all aspects of the Interaction Reform from 1 January. It's never been the intention either. In a sector that is so complex, with so many tasks and employees, and how wrong literally can be a matter of life or death, one step must be taken at a time. In the autumn, the framework has been put in place through laws and regulations, and today the financial framework is being put in place. In 2012, the operationalisation of the reform will start, but will not be completed. There will be challenges and weaknesses when we gain experience with the reform. In this context, I would like to refer to the Committee's comment in the Municipal Proposition for 2012 on the need to follow-up of the Interaction Reform so that unintended effects can be quickly adjusted. I am pleased that the government, as the Council of State of Navarsete also underlined in its previous statement, has followed up the signals of the Storting, and has announced a follow-up evaluation to assess the impact of the legal, economic, organisational and professional instruments, among others. in order to provide a knowledge base on possible in-flight instrument use adjustments during the planning period. The achievement of the necessary changes must not be hindered by the achievement of the objectives of the important welfare reform of the Cooperation Reform. Municipal Report announced yesterday that 180 municipalities have received a larger invoice from the Health Directorate than the increase in the framework transfer of the State budget should be expected. It is an invoice based on the consumption of hospital services in municipalities in the first and second districts of 2011, and it is a different basis from that available for the state budget, which has been based on the actual consumption in municipalities for 2010. Therefore, there is also a difference – a difference – between the municipality that has been granted and the invoice from the Directorate of Health that requires them to pay. However, it does not change the fact that municipalities are required to pay for their actual consumption of hospital services in 2012. In its letter to the municipalities, and on its websites, the Health Directorate has announced that adjustments to the amount of the account could occur after the first and second tertiary, if there is a discrepancy between the invoiced amount and the actual consumption available in the municipalities. This is going to be like the current bill: we're going to pay for the expected consumption based on historical data. So we know that the world can change. We put in place efficiency measures – on electricity billing, it is called an increment measure. In the context of the Interaction Reform, action is concerned with better health, more prevention for citizens. Then the hope is, and the goal, that the bill should be lower than it was expected to be. I would nevertheless stress that the government must follow this situation closely. There will be signals about municipalities facing challenges related to the balancing of their budgets — as a result of the Interaction Reform. But there are also signals from municipalities that have liquidity challenges. These minor practical problems must not be hindered by the success of the Interaction Reform. This reform is too important for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e656	In the media, we now see that municipalities are putting forward major cuts in their budgets for 2012, and local politicians in the whole country must cut in health care, schoolwork and other welfare services. The red-greens have created high expectations about a lot of resources for the local government at each option, funds that are not seen again in this budget proposal from the red-green government. Red-Green politicians, in this room and in the government building, say that they have allowed a lot of government funds to the municipalities. What they don't say is the increase in tasks that municipalities have been given, and the increase in costs that have been in the form of increased bureaucracy at the same time. Thus, KS's calculations show that the municipalities, with the government's draft budget, will lack 800 million. kr in 2012 to keep up with today’s service level. I would like the Minister of State, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister to come to terms with their budgets for 2012. From my county – and what I have registered on committee trips in other counties – I see that many hands disappear out of the care sector in connection with municipalities sewing their budgets. Many municipalities simply have to cut service levels for the care sector and, unfortunately, there must be fewer hands in this sector in these municipalities. In the first period of the red-green government, there were no limits to how many red-green politicians used the Stortinget to tell the number of hands to come in the health and care sector. Later, it is more careful to track from the same politicians. My claim is that when the municipalities have now sewn together their budgets, the number of warm hands in the care sector is greatly reduced. A study The Municipal Report has been conducted in Kommune-Noreg, showing that half of the municipalities this year are expected to have a worse net operating surplus than budgeted. Two out of three budget cracks, and it is especially before care and child protection that municipalities are unable to keep the budget, according to the report from the Municipal Report. In almost six out of ten municipalities, the economy is worse now than a year ago, this report shows Minister of State Liv Signe Navarsete has said, after this report has been presented, that she thinks speaking is alarming, and that is also, in my view, a very good reason to mean. I remember that as a support party to the Bondevik II government, we were able to increase the rights of the municipalities. We demanded that the follow-up – which was after the Bondevik II government had with the Workers' Party – be covered. Now we're talking about the opposition party for deaf ears. The warm hands disappear from the care profession, the learning density in the school shrinks in, and the municipal road decays. By looking at the country's local viewer, you'll see that my claim is correct. In my view, this is a gruesome example of what the representative Eirik Sivertsen claimed – that this was not going to be cut out in the municipalities next year. So finally some words about child protection. The Progress Party believes it's an investment for the future to have a competent child protection, a child protection that's present in all the municipalities of the country. We therefore believe it is absolutely necessary to have an evaluation of the work of child protection, with a view to reorganising and improving this service. We are constantly listening – last of all today – to unfortunate incidents on the part of child protection. This is absolutely necessary to counteract. Mistakes in which child protection has been committed are affecting innocent children and families. We can't let this go on. The government has to clean up this shortcut.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e686	This budget debate is probably marked by the fact that the government has had to curb its expenditure growth somewhat. At the same time, we have a government council that has now for over a year announced that she will go through the relationship between state and municipality, but that is stopped by her colleagues in the government from doing what she wants. She'll get help from the Right. We have launched and proposed in Stortinget now a local democratic court, which could be a first step towards a more equal relationship when it comes to disputes between the state and the municipality. An administrative court can be one solution to this, but we are open to how this is to be organised. We have recorded that there are different attitudes in the government parties to this, but that the central party has at least partly said that this can be a good idea. The municipal sector has major challenges. But there are also a lot of orders and a lot of leads to be carried out. At this conference on the 50th anniversary of the District Development Fund, I had the pleasure of participating in a debate with the Council of State of Navarsete. What was interesting there was that Innovation Norway and the regional policy instruments that the Council of State is so happy to talk about, almost not mentioned by the panel participants. What was important in District Norway now was the organisation of labour migration and corner stone holdings along the entire coast – from Hasvik in the north, from which we had the rapporteur from in the panel, to Austevoll in the west, saying that it is crucial for the districts now to be able to develop further, is that one has access to labour that can help to further increase coastal value creation. For this reason, the Right proposes to convert regional regional development, which was in a way left by the regional reform, into simply transferring money to transport – road development in District Norway, in the counties – to local food funds, i.e. Municipal or Intermunicipal Lending Fund, which we set by 200 million. kr, because the value creation takes place locally, and because those who know where the shoe is printed live in the municipality in question and not in the county. So we have another model of how we want to stimulate Municipality Norway to grow. Fortunately, we share that model with several other parties, and it also means that the value creation in the municipality should be more visible in the municipality. That's why we want to reintroduce the corporation tax, a corporation tax that Bondevik II introduced after it had existed under changing labor party governments for many years. Then it was like this, that the representative of the Swedish government, Mr. Egeland, was involved, that all the money went to the municipality that had its head office. And then I can see that it was a rather difficult model to relate to. But Bondevik II introduced a model in which every job in the company forms the basis for the corporate tax allocated. Then it's interesting that the Council of State Navarsete here in Stortinget can now announce which municipalities and how much of the Municipality of Norway will earn and lose on this. We have asked questions to the Ministry in three years’ time and have not received an answer – no, it is completely impossible to calculate. But it is clear that the calculations then exist, but that the Ministry of Local Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and others have no desire to notify the Storting of that distribution. So I would like to ask the Council of State to transmit to the Minister of Finance the list that we have been asking for for years now, through questions to the Minister of Finance in the context of the budgetary procedure. I think it's pretty serious that the Council of State can make the kind of claims in the main hall, when the Right has asked this question many times. What matters to the municipalities is that they have armsstrokes. That armshake has become less and less under this government. At that district conference, the majority of those who were there said that the most important thing now is that we get to be masters in our own house, that the state is less involved in our decisions and gives us greater opportunities to develop policies in our municipality and have greater responsibility for the area in our municipality. I'm still waiting for the big message about the relationship between state and municipality, and I'm sorry to have to say it: I'm looking less and less forward to it, because I don't think Navarsete's government council is getting a pass for anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e705	The government is working systematically and efficiently to renew the public sector. In the last five years, much has been done to streamline and renew the sector. The major reforms are well-known, and I can mention the Pension Reform, the Nav Reform and the Cooperation Reform. The arrangements relating to the lay-offs have been reviewed, the protection scheme is changing, the organisation of archives, libraries and museums is changing, and there have been major changes within the UDI system. Renewal also means the operation of services in new ways, and in Norway we have come a long way in digitising public services. We are world leaders in electronic services for business, and eight of the top ten services in the state sector are digitised. The challenge now is to be able to obtain services across administrative levels. Someone has to take responsibility for it. It is therefore surprising that the Right Party and the Advance Party respond to this challenge of cutting down on diffi’s operational allocation. It is the body that helps us to interact across sectors. I am pleased that the Committee – or at least the majority of the Committee – has taken note of the challenges faced by the Ministry Services Centre after 22 July. This work naturally has a high priority in the ministry. It is important for the government that both employees and visitors feel safe in our premises, and that the work of the government and department can be carried out as efficiently as possible, given the framework conditions we have after July 22. It is therefore strange that in response to these challenges, both the Right Party and the Advance Party are cutting the DSS operational allocation. The government is concerned that state-owned buildings should be energy-efficient and environmentally friendly. This, together with the function, price and universal design of the properties, is an important consideration in building and in entering into rental conditions. The State is a major tenant in the market. It is important to make greater use of that position to make demands on the lessor on the environmental quality, energy use and universal design of the site. State buildings shall provide advice to state establishments on the conclusion and renewal of lease contracts in the market. The Committee is concerned that the experience and competence of State-building in the field of energy flow to other public builders. I agree and will refer in particular to the cooperation between Defence Building and State Building on the development of a separate website on lifecycle costs. This is a calculation tool for the life cycle costs of the buildings used for all types of projects and at all stages of building planning and operation. The service is free of charge. The use of life cycle cost analyses could also provide important information that can be used as a basis for decisions on, for example: new state buildings. The majority of the Committee points out that State-owned buildings should be connected to district heating networks where they exist as soon as possible. According to the SSB report, fossil fuels represent about 4 pst. of energy use for heating in state buildings. Electrical power and district heating accounted for about 93 pst. We have long called for energy flexibility in the construction of new buildings. This means that it facilitates the use of different energy carriers, which makes the transition from fossil fuel to other more environmentally friendly alternatives easier and cheaper. However, the assumption is that district heating or other energy carriers are available in the area. Let me end with a few words about Sami questions. The merger is established by the law of union in order to comply with the Constitution § 110a, and Sametinget has in time gained an important role in our democratic system as a representative body for association in Norway. The government will continue its targeted investment in Sami languages. In the last three years, the government has increased a total of 23 million. kr to Sami languages, and the bet continued in 2012. The Divvun project has developed spelling and proofing programmes for Northern, Lule and Southern Sami, and the University of Oslo develops digital pedagogical tools. Such electronic language tools are a prerequisite for the survival of Sami languages as a language of use in today's society. The government, with its draft budget, has ensured full operation of Divvinn as a separate unit at the University of Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e740	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e743	Norway has a big bureaucracy, too big after the Progress Party's opinion. I want to start with e.g. Ministry of Agriculture. Despite the dramatic decline in the number of farmers in this country, the bureaucracy in the Ministry of Agriculture has not been given the same rationalization. If the government's rationalization policy before agriculture is not changed – and according to the last agricultural message, there is no reason to believe it – then one could risk having every farmer's own bureaucracy in time. When will the Council of State ensure that there is real rationalisation and efficiency in bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e750	I agree that we should focus on running the public administration as efficiently as possible. The government's answer is that we've gone through a number of areas and made new arrangements. As I said in my speech, the Nav reform, the Pension Reform and the Cooperation Reform are key elements in operating public administration in a more efficient way. At the same time, I register, inter alia: in this debate, requests for more rights and more specific arrangements, which will also require a bureaucracy. Then it is up to each State Council to implement the organisational measures that are appropriate in the areas of the State Councils. What my department is specifically concerned about is facilitating good digital solutions. It reduces bureaucracy and helps us get more satisfied users. We will continue to work on that, across departments, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e758	The Council of State began its intervention in telling us that the government is working both systematically and efficiently with reorganization, and she referred to several major reforms. Of course, we are pleased that the government itself believes that it is both systematic and effective. But when she refers to the Nav reform, which cannot really be evaluated because it is not fully put into practice after the intentions, and to the Cooperation Reform, which has not yet been started, I thought that I should ask the Council of State, which is the government's foremost responsible for rationalization in the state, if she has ever reflected on why we have a hospital in Norway that has lower productivity than the hospital services in Denmark and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e765	We have a historical distribution of hospitals in Norway that gives the population closeness to the health services it needs. The interaction reform is an answer to the need to make some changes in how we have organised our healthcare system. Transferring more services to a local level is the intention of the Interaction Reform. The creation of local medical centres is an act of renewing our health sector in the time to come. Then I agree that the cooperation reform is not put into practice. But it shows that the government is thinking about new ideas, and that we are doing reorganisations in the areas we think it is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e772	It has not been long since the Council of State and I were here in the Chamber talking about church buildings in connection with the Riksrevision report. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has in its alternative budget increased the rate of interest-free loans by 0.5 million. kr, for we have received reports from both KA and – of course – the National Audit Office showing alarming conditions related to church buildings around the country. I know that the Council of State is also concerned about this. But does the Council of State see the need to refer to more measures than just interest-free loans? We know that municipalities today face a huge debt burden. Not all municipalities can borrow more, it is difficult to prioritize the protection of church buildings. Sees the Council of State that there may be other ways of contributing, such as: with a split layer between the State and the municipality to advance the securing of these important signal buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e779	I share the representative's concern that there is still some maintenance work at a part of the country's churches. What delights me is that there has been considerable progress in some areas lately. The fissure layer I see must be between the state and the municipality, is to continue to have a good municipal economy, which enables the municipalities to grant the funds needed for the maintenance of church buildings. What delights me is that in the years we have been in government, there has been a significant – and it is significant – increase in the efforts of the municipalities towards the churches to provide funds for maintenance. Then we have to contribute to knowledge and systematics. So I hope that the funds we have made available through the loan scheme are used up. Here I agree that it is worrying that the municipalities do not use that opportunity in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e786	The Council of State addressed the need to phase out fossil energy for heating in state buildings. But she added the assumption that it was dependent on having district heating or other energy sources available. I would argue that alternative energy sources are always available and can be used. Many municipalities, including: Oslo, has closed all the use of oil for heating in its municipal buildings and has spent a lot of money on it. Is the Council of State willing to set a clear deadline for the end-use of oil and fossil energy sources for heating in state buildings, so that the State can also participate in this effort to reduce climate emissions in Norway, as many are already doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e793	I think we've been pretty good on the state side reaching 94 pst. of our buildings are heated without the use of fossil energy. And then there'll be some constructions in which it's demanding to take rehabilitation measures, because we have ownership of a lot of different types of construction, which it's demanding to make the necessary changes. But our goal is to phase in as much non-fossil energy use as possible in our construction, and I believe that we have actually done quite well. It's important that we take this into the rehabilitation projects related to the buildings, and it's important that we make the right choices when we build new ones, and at least we're on our way to making the right choices for all, most of our buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e798	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e801	In recent months there has been a debate on housing policy. That is good, because it contributes to an increased understanding of this important policy area. All other objectives of housing policy depend on the construction of enough new dwellings. In the period 2005-2007, the construction of between 30000 and 35000 dwellings was started annually. It was the highest construction activity since about 1980. Then the new construction fell in 2008 and 2009 as a result of the international financial crisis. This year we have seen an increase, especially in press areas. In Oslo, the new building has increased by more than 400 pst., correctly from a low level. And yet: Still, there are too few new dwellings built in relation to population growth. The distance between supply and demand gives price pressure. When we have this debate next year, I expect that we can look back on a year when the new building increased and where it was seized – especially in the municipalities, but also in government actors – to make the construction processes faster and easier. I would like to mention an example of a good initiative. The Municipal and Administrative Committee was recently in Westfold. There the county council, county council and municipalities have merged to think completely and rethink spatial planning. In large parts of the county, neither housing nor business can be built. Vestfold is already densely built, has many cultural memories, beach area, large forest and agricultural areas, area reserved for future infrastructure, etc. Similarly, there are other places, and there are delays and great frustration in the municipalities when the state – often at the county level – objects to otherwise good construction projects. To meet this challenge, Vestfold has seen all the constraints in the context. They agree that the area not subject to any restriction can be freely used for residential and industrial activities, and within these areas the municipalities can set up. It will make processes faster and easier and give more homes. The financial supervision recently presented new guidelines on the level of lending. The appropriate lending rate is reduced from 90 to 85 pst. the market value of the dwelling. Norwegian households have never had a higher indebtedness than what we now have. 11 pst. Norwegian households have a liability of more than six times the total annual income. Financial supervision is an independent body to contribute to financial stability and trust in financial agreements and services. In a time of great financial uncertainty, we must take seriously the fact that the Financial Supervisory Authority believes that a tightening is necessary. At the same time, we must ensure that young people and disadvantaged people are not hit unnecessarily hard. Start-up loans are provided after a thorough, individual assessment and there is less default of start-up loans than of ordinary mortgages. The representatives Bekkevold and Tetzschner both claimed that the start-up loan scheme is effectively terminated as a result of the requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority. That's not right. The house bank is not subject to the requirements. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the majority believe that municipalities should continue to provide start-up loans, and other financial institutions should also be able to provide housing loans in combination with start-up loans, after a concrete assessment, without the borrower having 15 pst. equity. The government has done a lot for young and disadvantaged people in the housing market. This work continues in 2012. The housing aid is strongly strengthened and simplified. More start-up loans than ever before. Norwegian municipalities now have more than 100,000 municipal dwellings available for housing social purposes. It's high. In 2011, the Loan Framework of the House Bank is 20 billion. kr. The size increased this year, after the initial framework did not turn out to be sufficient. Even now, the majority of governments are asking for careful follow-up and return to the Storting with an assessment of the need for increased frameworks if needed. The world around us is marked by crisis and great economic uncertainty. We are a small country, dependent on being able to sell goods and services to the countries around us. Somehow, the economic crisis will affect us. Maybe we'll first notice it for real in the housing market. This is not the time to increase the government's expenditure or cut its income, as the opposition does. Conducting a responsible economic policy that helps to keep interest rates down is important in general and, above all, it is important in housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e822	Since the Council of State, which had the last word here, talked about reforms, there is just one of these that I am going to talk about – namely the administrative reform. From 1 January 2010, the county councils became major weighers. 17 000 km of highways were moved from state ownership to county ownership. It happened against the votes of the Progress Party. Are there going to be better ways of doing this? Is it going to be better when the state roads change owners? Is it going to be better when bad roads change owners? I think most people who use the county roads, don't experience it this way, but on the contrary. Let's go back a little bit in time: ‘We get the road effort of time across the country and a safer and more efficient one that leads to shorter travel time and lower distance costs for people and businesses throughout the country.’ It said the Minister for Transport Liv Signe Navarsete when the National Transport Plan was presented in March 2009. However, even the ‘trafficking of times’ is not enough for roads in Norway to actually improve. It shows the estimates from the Directorate of Roads, as stated in its programme of action: ‘The frameworks for the operation and maintenance of the road network will not be sufficient to halt further growth in the maturity of the 2010–2013 action programme.’;» Translated into ordinary Norwegian, this means that the roads are getting even worse than they were because there is a lack of money. The descriptions of the Road Directorate are correct by the national roads, but there is every reason to believe that the state also applies to the county roads – that they are actually even worse than what is both measured and described around the national road network. The Road Traffic Information Council, together with a number of nationwide member organisations, made four demands for the administrative reform: prior to the acquisition by the State of the introduction of statutory standard requirements for the road network, the establishment of independent roadside supervision that adequate financial resources were provided with: We are far from meeting these requirements when the county councils reach 2012, and when the drivers use the county road network in 2012. In any case, the claim of ‘time pedigree’ has not given the quality of the times on the road network, to say the least, conservatively. No reform brings good results when there is no money to establish the quality of the services that the reform will provide to users. So simple – yet it is so difficult for the government. For users, there is no difference between national and county roads. The quality of the roads, the level of safety, reliability and accessibility should be the same. It's not like that. The administrative reform has allowed for a fragmentation of road policy and road quality, with 19 responsible county municipalities and a state depriving itself of responsibility. The 2012 Alternative State Budget of the Progress Party has markedly increased traffic, especially in the road sector. The progress point has added 2 billion. kr more to the road network through the interest-rate compensation scheme. We've added 250 million. kr for the racial protection of the county road network, to the attenuated counties. We've added 800 million. kr more for road safety and it is allocated to both national and county roads in each country. For the County Roadferry Network, the Advance Party has added 50 million. Extra kroner. All of this was demonstrated in the position discussed in Stortinget last Wednesday, which concerns the Ministry of Transport's budget. There are also proposals from the Progress Party and the Right to convert the administrative reform and bring the roads and funding back to the state. The Progress Party also promoted proposals to ensure that an annual maintenance report is drawn up for the national road network as a whole, including for the county road network. Strangely enough, no other parties would be involved. The Party considers that such a report is important, that it should be drawn up by other than the State Road Service and supervision other than the newly established Road Safety Authority, and that it should be presented for both magnification and publicity. The goal is good and safe highways – and equally good highways regardless of the economy of the county. With the government's recipe, this will take a long time to realize, if it can be realized at all. The Progress Party will therefore reset the Administrative Reform and allocate more money in 2012 to the present state roads, while we are waiting to implement this transformation of the Administrative Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e865	The values are created in the municipalities. Welfare services are provided in municipalities. The working party has as its basic principle that we should create to share. We're going to create values in municipalities to create a good society where community and solidarity are at the core. Therefore, the red-green parties have a solid increase in the municipal economy. It provides more well-being in large and small municipalities. We can say that in the red-green project, town and country go hand in hand. The municipalities are strengthened by 49 billion. SEK in free income in the last few years. In addition, 46 000 new annual works have been created, mainly to meet the need for good care and childcare. At the same time, it must be stressed that since 2005, 250,000 more jobs have been created and about two out of three new jobs have been created in the private sector. We must create to be able to share! The inter-operational reform should move health provision closer to people and should therefore also be a good regional policy measure. Red-green governance has played a major role in regional and regional policy. Some examples are the fact that a differentiated employer’s fee has been reintroduced; the specific regional and regional policy instruments have increased by 55 pst. from 2005 to 2011, and there is a strong focus on innovation, entrepreneurship and local business funds. At the same time, transport solutions are important and a means of ensuring good regional development. We're now in a historical relationship. Priorities in the national transport plan are targeted and followed closely. Here it's natural to say that we've followed up on the promise of an annual promise to race protection of 1 billion. kr, which improves the racial challenges of a number of districts. This contributes to greater security and emergence, which is also important for local business, citizens and public services. The government has strengthened the electronic infrastructure in the districts with the slogan: Broadband for all. We're going to have more capacity for digital solutions across the country. It's popular growth in all parts of the country. A clear majority of municipalities have growth. When it comes to growth in district municipalities, we are very good compared to other countries it is natural to compare with. This is not random and does not result from individual actions. It is not at least a result of a Community society in which sensible schemes such as: Toddlers' parents mean that Norwegian women have a relatively large number of children and can participate in the labour market at the same time. This propensity for the growth of the people that will benefit the whole country. The employment in the districts is kept high as in the country else. The most important thing for the welfare level in the districts is that people have jobs. The government has provided the Heart for the whole country, which announces a stronger commitment to regional and regional policy. Furthermore, the message Local Growth Force and Future Threat, which warn of a strengthening of the work of local community development, has been presented. We are to ensure that competence jobs and new state jobs are spread across the country. Competence centres for district development have been established, becoming an important advisor and contributor to the efforts. It is created regional research fund with 6 million. kr in fund capital. The county authorities have been strengthened by ownership in Innovation Norway and greater responsibility for the country. Regional policy needs to be taken into account in all sectors. The First Line for the Development of Enterprises in Municipalities — FUNK, called — has been implemented to strengthen municipalities’ guidance to start-ups. In many places, industry is characterized by dense clusters as motors in regional development. This needs to be further stimulated and is an important resource to ensure value creation and competitiveness. The SIVA Food and Agriculture Programme is strengthened by the dual nature of the framework. Borrowing funds and the budget for Innovation Norway are strengthened. Furthermore, there is a strong commitment to mentoring for young entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship among young people is strengthened from 13 million. SEK in 2008 to 32 million. kr in 2011. At the same time, action plans have been presented for more entrepreneurship for women and young people. Extra efforts have been made in the field of industrial development on land through the North Region effort. Furthermore, research in the north is under way, with a strategic focus on knowledge infrastructure. It is an important goal to make it easier for young people, the elderly and the disabled to live in the districts. Effective coordination of resources and instruments shall ensure establishment and value creation throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e897	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e901	The crisis in Europe is very serious and can affect Norway. In such a situation, steady economic governance is essential. It is necessary to ensure Norwegian enterprises and jobs. Unemployment in exposed export industries will hit many municipalities hard through lower tax inputs, higher social aid costs and general pessimism in many communities. The order of the economy is also crucial in order not to increase interest rates and impose additional costs on Kommune-Norway, which will lead to less room for better services for the inhabitants. But compared to all the other countries around us, we are in the lucky situation that we can improve the well-being of the inhabitants even next year. Our budgets are not marked by unforeseeableness and well-being, although budgets around the municipalities are tight to next year. I should have liked to see the right stop saying that the economy of Norwegian municipalities was in charge in 2005. Very many Norwegian municipalities were on the so-called ROBEK list at the time, as Ingelill Olsen so well described in his article. Very many municipalities had severely reduced their staff in important service areas such as schools and care to show a balanced budget and a black-digit account. There was no local freedom, as the Right took such a strong stand for now. On the contrary: There was a great deal of unrest in Norwegian municipalities when we took over the management of the country in 2005. Thanks to the big economic promise in 2006 and later the municipalities came back on the offensive. The budget for next year has a good distribution policy profile, also in relation to the municipalities. The municipalities shall finance 40 pst. of own resources, which brings good cohesion between municipalities, so that people living in low-tax municipalities get the same offer of school care and care as people living in so-called tax-intensive municipalities. I am also pleased that the corporate tax is distributed as it does. This means that it also benefits municipalities that have primary industries and smaller production companies in their midst. This is a good distribution policy that makes it possible to live and work throughout our long-term country. Norwegian municipalities are good service producers, both alone and together with other municipalities. I would like more municipalities to merge, but even medium-sized and large municipalities think it is appropriate to cooperate when large tasks are to be solved. The implementation of a major and important reform, namely the Interaction Reform, will start next year. Many municipalities then want to cooperate on all or part of the reform, and I therefore only want to use the opportunity once again to recall that several municipalities want to establish such intermunicipal cooperation through the joint municipal model. They keep telling me about their impatience that the model should be anchored in the municipal law. I trust the Council of State will come to Stortinget on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e914	Before the next speaker, the President will, for the sake of order, draw attention to the fact that those who now sign up to 3 minutes are coming to the debate on budgetary chapters under the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. This means that if there are people who have now signed up for 3 minutes who wish to speak during the debate on budgetary chapters under the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Justice, they will have to sign up for the next debate. Then it's briefed on this one more time from the president's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e919	After six years in government, the Central Party has now been adequately destroyed by local hospitals, they propose to transfer the tasks to the municipalities. They probably didn't have any other options. But when the Interaction Reform enters into force on 1 January 2012, we know that a great many municipalities are not in the vicinity of being ready to take over the challenges that are coming. I am surprised that when one has said over time that one needs to specialise more in health services, so that local hospitals become too small, one prefers to move the tasks to municipalities with 3,000 inhabitants – for example. This shows that the policy is not coherent. The interaction reform has many good intentions, but the whole commitment of the cooperation reform is to be able to build a large, good environment of competence that is able to meet the medical challenges of a specialised healthcare service. Then it is a paradox that while we are getting older and we are living with more and more diagnostics, one should leave to the municipalities to carry out specialised treatment – while accepting a municipal structure which means that the environment of competence under no circumstances can be large enough. Then there's another paradox. The Central Party accepts that, for example: for ready-to-write patients and 20 pst municipal co-financing responsibilities. for municipalities is introduced from 1 January 2012, knowing that there are no agreements between municipalities and regional health care providers on different cooperation models. About half of Norwegian municipalities say they are unable to achieve such cooperation agreements until the Cooperation Reform enters into force. This means, in practice, that municipalities become the weak party to negotiate an agreement with regional health professionals after they have taken over the financial responsibility. There are no negotiations that will take place between the municipalities and the regional health services at that time. The interaction reform is possible to be successful, but it suggests that a person builds the reform from below and up, launches good projects locally and starts building skills, and then gets more and more tasks done. The current government transfers financial responsibilities without building up its competence. It will affect the patients in the municipalities. Unfortunately, we have to wait until 2013 before we can do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e932	The right has several times claimed in this debate that Erna Solberg left behind a good municipal economy. Our 50-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr extra and more than a half of the number of ROBEK municipalities must, as a result, now be worse than before. I've never understood that kind of Erasmus Montanus logic. As rapporteur in the Erna period, I do not recognise myself. On the contrary, I will admit that I really envy my successor a little, who has got a good chance of red-green dollars for further urban development. And urban development is a keynote. Urban development is an incredibly important policy area that almost no one has talked about here today. It's not only about money, but also a lot about long-term planning ability. The Planning and Building Act will then be a very important instrument. We've reformed the law and cleaned up in a lot of old fun. Now the plane system is better connected, across the levels. It has not brought with it the right, at least not if we are to believe them in the notes. They claim that the new law is more restrictive, that county officials can review local decisions more than before. But that's completely wrong. In the new law, access to objections is considerably restricted. Government agencies need to be more specific when important planning processes are in progress and not over-sampled in retrospect. Then also the Court of Justice can quickly be a blow in the air. Moreover, lifting important social choices out of policy and over in the jessen is not a good solution. Let me do an example. Urban development is an area where conflicts can easily arise. It's politics, not jus. What we need is urban politics. Cities are the engines of growth and employment throughout the country and important actors in the regional policy that Aga Haug spoke about here instead. The former centre party rapporteur in Obere Eiker Magne Ødegård was in his time quite clear on it: «Without the Drammen stop Hokksund.» Now the Drammen itself has problems, because important issues of transport remain unresolved. The government contributes money, but the most important job must be in local and regional cooperation. It's politics. New planning and building laws also require clearer national expectations on the themes of local and regional planning. The government has chosen urban and urban development as one of the main policy areas, precisely because of the importance of industrial development and value creation. Clear notification has been given that government bodies should follow up national expectations and contribute to increased predictability by contributing to planning. So instead of running an old-fashioned confrontational line state–municipale, my advice to the Right is that they themselves prefer to run a rapporteur's course on opportunities in new planning and building laws. Then the state councils of Navarsete and Solheim can take a similar round with the state officials and let the judges go. The latter is not elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e945	Some of the posts in this room have been marked by a desire to frighten the opponent’s policy rather than a real debate on disagreements with the objective. The representative of Aegean said that crisis time is not the time for economic experimentation, as if some parties in Stortinget actually want it. Heidi Greni spoke of lower taxes and a high level of well-being being tested in Greece, and that was obviously the reason why things went wrong in Greece. Both parts that I referred to are wrong. Greece is a country that was socially democratically governed, so a debt should be owed to someone, rather get a look at their own partners rather than blame that situation on Greece. However, there are fundamental differences between Greece and Norway that make comparisons relevant independent of batch color. In fact, Norway has a surplus of 345 billion. kr. Even with the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, which some here are trying to call irresponsible, this profit would be 344 billion. kr. There is a completely different situation than keeping a budget deficit of more than ten percent of the expenditure side of the budget. Norway has over 3,000 billion. kr on book. That's the opposite of what Greece has. They have a sovereign debt that is more than 100 pst. of what they produce in a year. So we don't have to compare this. What we would rather discuss was how we would use the enormously good space for action that Norway has, to ensure that Norwegian jobs survive and to ensure that our productive capacity in the future is better than that provided by the government. So we have a cost side on the state budget of over 1 000 billion. kr. This government can boast that they spend more money on all good purposes, because they have more money for all good purposes. However, it is not relevant to compare the 2005 budget – the expenditure side has increased by 50 pst. since 2005. The one has to compare is how the different batches prioritise within the 2012 budget. Then I believe that the Progress Party has shown that it is possible to use the State's money better and more efficiently than the government does. The representative, Bård Vegar Solhjell, has written a book and revealed the inner life of the government. He pointed out that reforms were incredibly difficult, because everyone is just sitting there and looking after what they have, rather than thinking about across departments. The budget of the Progress Party is a sign that we are thinking across fractions and committees. We're going to cut through to get a more efficient and slimmer state while at the same time getting more sick homes, while at the same time strengthening primary school, while at the same time strengthening Norwegian business with tax relief, and at the same time contributing to a lower wage settlement through tax relief to the employees. So it's possible to get significant things done without calling it experiment, and without it being irresponsible. We have an action room that we should use. It's about having ambitions and action, not just about running with administration, as the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e963	The interaction reform starts officially on 1 January 2012, but a great many municipalities have already done many of the grips of the reform. It is therefore strange when the opposition says that the reform is correct and welcome, but not now. There is an error in the logic connection, and it has to be rejected. The inspiration for the reform comes from the many municipalities that have developed local medical centres alone or together with others. In my opinion, Alta Municipality has practically already implemented the Cooperation Reform. In political debates there are fears that not everyone will have the necessary hospitalization for next year. That's not right at all. Anyone who needs it should be in a hospital, and it should still be the doctor – only the doctor and no one else – who decides this. The opposition also says that the responsibility for patients who are ready to print is too big a task for the municipalities. I totally disagree with that. Very many hospitals and municipalities already cooperate so well that this is no problem. Then all the municipalities and hospitals must be able to do it. The interaction reform improves cooperation between hospitals and municipalities, and municipalities receive NOK 4000 per day to take responsibility. If a municipality, in whole or in part, fails to do so, the money goes back to the hospital. The municipality loses nothing, but the inhabitants lose a good. Cooperation reform is therefore not austerity reform. We spend a lot of money on health and care in Norway, and so on. With the Interaction Reform, the specialist health service will also continue to grow, but it will grow a little less than before. At the same time, we will stimulate growth in municipal health and care services. This will happen over a few years because professionals are to be recruited and hired, and many new ones are to be trained. I remember that the large mental health escalation plan, which was cross-political, was planned to be implemented over eight years – and then it took ten years. In its speech, the Jon Georg Dale of the Progress Party reiterated many of the negative arguments against the Cooperation Reform. I mean it's talking Norwegian municipalities down. I do not believe it is necessary to trust Norwegian municipalities. KS says that the cooperation reform is a declaration of trust to the municipalities, and I am convinced that the municipalities are worthy of that trust. The reform is inspired by the achievements already achieved in the field. Now all the municipalities are getting pleasure from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e980	The reason why I take the word is two things. One is an open misunderstanding from the municipal minister and a lack of response from the municipal minister to my question; the other is something that the representative Håkon Haugli said, which I am not fully aware of. To take the last one first. The representative Haugli pointed out that the Financial Supervisory Authority’s request for 15 p.m. own funds are fixed, but this should not apply to initial loans. Then we are in the situation that if one has such a high income that one should have a loan after a banking assessment even if one does not have 15 pst. in equity - one might only have 10 pst. in equity – so one does not get it, even though the bank says that borrowing money for an apartment is justified. But if you're in a situation where you have such a bad economy, so low income that you don't get bank loans and depend on starting loans, you can borrow more than 85 pst. of the amount of the loan. Then 15 pst should not be. equity is involved. I just have to say that I'm a little tired of understanding the logic. I'm afraid there'll be a lot of people who get a start-up loan, and who might be in financial trouble that day. The second thing I wanted to address was that the municipal minister said it would be a disaster for the municipality of Norway if one price, i.e. government-led financing, were introduced, because there are different costs in different municipalities. Of course, there are different costs in different municipalities! In a piggy municipality, it will cost more to do home care than in a city. That is why we have said that we should have differentiated the price. We're not going to have the same funding regardless of each cage. But if a cage in a place in the country where it costs more to do these services, it will also trigger a higher level of government funding than a cage in a part of the country where it is cheaper to do these services. – This is a good system, so it's just starting to work on it. Then I also asked a question about KS calculating that the municipalities are missing 800 million. kr to continue for the next year the activity, the service provision, one has today. The question for the municipal minister is: If one assumes that it is right – in each of the 2012 budgets, does the municipal minister believe that the municipalities should cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e991	My good colleague from the Progress Party began to speak for a differentiated price. If you read their budget, they have various efficiency measures in relation to the State, including: administrative cut. I wonder what that system is going to be like if you're going to start creating a differentiated unit price system for every municipality in Norway. I think it's going to create some bureaucracy. But enough about it. Politics is interesting when you see it over time. When I sat and followed this debate, I thought that I would go back six years and then to the debate – after the government change in 2005. Then we, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, put in 5.7 billion. kr, and it was a significant uplift. We had a lively and active debate here in the hall. Thanks to the promise, for example. The municipality of Sandnes 33 million. extra kr in 2006. But what was the representative of the Christian People's Party doing in that debate? She voted against it. Right Bent Höie, who represented Stavanger, voted against the Right Municipality receiving $66 million. Extra kroner. Our good representative from Selje argued against Selje getting $3 million. kr extra in free resources in 2005. The illustrative thing about this was that there was a huge change in 2005 — a change in pace. Because today there is no one in this room who says they are against the promise that happened in 2005, which was in force from 2006. Now all the parties are trying to put themselves closer to the government, because they've seen that it's been a successful turnaround. What has happened since 2005, when we debated this December 14th, and until now? Well, we've added approx. 49 B.C.E. kr extra to the municipal sector. Of that it has become approx. 48 000 new annual works in these six years: 20,700 are in care, 11,500 in kindergarten, and 8,670 is the last figure I've seen in primary school. And during Bondevik II there were 8 000 in the entire municipal sector. So just the promise we made at primary school is greater than the whole promise, or lack of promise, as one did under Bondevik II. There has been a huge change of pace, and we also notice that the climate here in the hall – now everyone wants to be part of this change of pace. But it's because we got a new government that was willing to prioritize the municipal sector, that we've got it done. Many of us notice that. For me as a granddaughter, it is natural to use this example when the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has entered the hall – it is important that 53,500 more children have kindergarten seats today than in the fall of 2005. So it's important to use the voting power. It's had an effect. And the municipal sector has been given a big boost thanks to this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1004	The world has been going through and is still in a severe economic and financial crisis. Europe is fading. And so does the rest of the world. Unemployment is so high that it is almost impossible to imagine the situation in Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom and many other countries. Then we can say that thanks to the responsible and tidy policy our government has implemented over the last six years, it is actually our country that has the lowest interest rate in Europe and the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. This is a result of the responsible policy. There are many people who enjoy it, but then there is a gap in joy: while unemployment is on average around 2.5 p.m., workers with a minority background are struggling in our country. There is triple unemployment and close to 8-9 pst. Some groups are struggling further. There's even more unemployment. When we now deal with the municipal budget, I want to send a call to Municipality-Norway. There are a lot of jobs created in the municipalities. Then I believe that the municipalities must take their share of responsibility, make sure that the impact side is not so strong for people with a minority background. Having a job is the very foundation for getting on with life and making sure that children have the opportunity to get good education, have a good upbringing, get into society and get into work. This class difference is reinforced when one has no work to do. The municipalities must take this seriously. In particular, creating jobs, recruiting people with a minority background into leadership positions must be very important. There is an invisible glass roof in many places around the country, not least in public and municipal Norway that stops it. Yeah, there's a lot of people running T-Bahn, a lot of people who are part of Hospital-Norway, a lot of people who work here and there, but when you get up on a certain level, it stops. Oslo municipality e.g. is a sink. Many other municipalities that actually have very many qualified people with a minority background in their staff are unable to facilitate the entry of these people into leadership positions, which we actually need. We need the skills they possess. In addition, we can use them as good role models to move even more into the world of work and up towards management around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1013	It has been interesting to follow the debate today, and I want to address a topic that may not have been so much affected, and that is welfare policy. It is well known that municipalities are an important producer of Norwegian welfare services in the case of care for the elderly, in the case of schools, in the case of the provision of the very weakest children in the form of child protection, in the case of prevention, and not least aftercare in relation to drug care. Municipalities have an important task in that area. But in the media, we also see again and again that it is in these areas that the municipalities are unable to provide a good enough offer to the inhabitants. From representatives of the other political parties, over the years, I have been confronted with the fact that if the policy of the Progress Party had been implemented, it would almost have been a rage of the Commune-Norway. With respect to reporting, it is well that if the Progress Party had implemented policy, it would allow for more well-being in Municipality-Norway than with the policies of the government. Let me do a few examples. The Progress Party proposes to spend 2.7 billion. more for welfare production in Kommune-Norway – for care of the elderly, for primary schools, for child protection, for drug care and for psychiatry. Let me go on to the care of the elderly. If we spent 1.5 billion. In the case of care for the elderly, this would result in 2,143 additional hospitalisation places. When we know about all the elderly nurses who sit at home, who would like to have – and are qualified for – a hospitalized place, and who do not get it, I think it is directly toothless by the government that no more effort is made to enable municipalities to offer a better offer. There is also talk about the employees of municipal care for the elderly who have small job breaks. If the budget of the Progress Party had been implemented, there would have been room to give those who went involuntarily on part-time, on very low job breaks, the possibility of a 50 pst. increased proportion of the position. It would give room for 5,000 people who have an involuntary part-time job to increase the number of jobs. It would give more warm hands in Kommune-Norway to care for the elderly who do not get the care and care that they should have given them, and which they at my discretion are entitled to. So my conclusion is quite clear: if the Storting had adopted the policy of the Progress Party, it would have become more well-being around in the Commune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1028	There is no crisis to be on the ROBEK list, a central working party politician in my home region said not so many months ago. It is part of the story that the municipality he represents is now represented on that very list, in good company, unfortunately, with three others in a region of seven municipalities. County Brustad has visited us all over the last few weeks, and in the Right we are happy that she does not see this relationship as relaxed. As municipal politicians, we are still obliged to ensure that our combinations receive the service they require, ROBEK, or not. But of course it is, and unfortunately it also often leads to the temptation to impose increased taxes on the inhabitants. It is then the patch you use to patch together a refined municipal economy. We politicians talk a lot about how we're going to distribute the pie as if it were going to have a specified size forever. We're talking too little after Right's view about what action we have to take to make it bigger, so the pie. Values are created locally, and it is based on the Right’s justification for a governance model in which municipalities and regions are given a strengthened opportunity to manage the framework for economic development. There is also an answer to one of the questions raised in a line change earlier today, where the Right was asked questions about how we had intended to drive regional development as long as we removed funds from the county budgets. Well, we're going to do that where the values are created. This is also why we want to set up a separate system for local food development in particularly underprivileged areas. We want to strengthen this important 200 million work. kr, and has also included it in our alternative budget. I am no longer so young that I know everything – this is stolen from Oscar Wilde – but in the Right we are convinced that we are creating attractive regions by making a strong commitment to knowledge and by giving room for companies to increase their competitiveness. The right trusts that the municipalities and regions of Norway know best which areas it is natural to invest in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1042	It's interesting to sit and right on the debate – there's a lot of good input and lots of good input. There have also been some posts that have been direct visitors to the government party, and not least to my own party, the Center Party, where Jon Georg Dale fired off a broadside against the fact that we had laid down local hospitals. No, Agent Dale, the Center Party has not done that. We have been told that we actually have local hospitals that are still going to have important services in their communities. What the situation would have been without the power of the Center Party with regard to local hospitals, I shall not say so much about it, but I know that I am proud of the efforts the Center Party has made. I'm also proud of what the Center Party and the government have done when it comes to decentralising the health services to the municipalities. We show trust in Kommune-Noreg, we show that we are continuing with a tradition where local populace can give priority to important areas for its inhabitants. It is decentralisation and prevention in practice. Yes, we're going to follow the financial transfers very closely, see that they're in line, and see that you can continue with the important work that the municipalities have actually done for many years, by starting to build up a local medical centre. That is what is the model for the cooperation reform. She is not hatched in an office in Oslo, she is hatched in Valdres, in Ørland and around in runaway regional cooperation, where one has been given good deals. We're gonna have to go on with that. Gjermund Hagesetter is an initial loan. It is this way – and it has been – that those who receive a start-up loan are subject to a specific assessment, both by the bank and by the municipality. Therefore it is only approx. half of the applicants who receive a specific assessment; one shall be able to pay back. It's not always that it's the size of the income that means something, but that one has a even income. And the housing selection, which presented a NOU a short time ago, says that many more people should be able to enter the owner's market, given that they have a steady income and so can bet a loan. So we're going to continue with the initial loan investment. It's a very important bet. Then I register that the Progress Party will have differentiated the price. I like to see that model in practice, but I don't think I'm going to do it, because the economic policy of the Progress Party does not hang together. I'm quite sure that in the next session there'll be a lot more money for justice, and in other days they'll probably have a lot more money for both commerce and other areas discussed here in the hall. They should have multiples for this with someone, probably right. Right stands for a responsible economic policy, they say. Then it is impossible to imagine that we will experience seeing the Progress Party's economic policy translated into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1055	I'm a little uncertain about what the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen thinks we have to learn from Greece, which he spent most of his time talking about. He'll find out in the next article. But a misunderstanding has to be solved. He blames the social democrats for not doing well in Greece. I just have to take the opportunity to remember that when Papandreou took over, it turned out that the debt in Greece was more than twice that the previous bourgeois government had claimed. The whole of Papandreou's reign agreed to clean up. And as I said, I have a hard time seeing that we have a lot to learn, but if we have something to learn, I think it has to be better with a government that conducts a responsible economic policy than a government that doesn't. The representative of Hageseter is engaged in the initial loan. His posts make me uncertain about one thing and very sure of another. What I am becoming uncertain about is whether the representative has read the committee position, because it clearly states that the start-up loan scheme should be continued. What I am sure of, on the other hand, is that the representative does not understand what the start-up loan scheme is. The start-up loan scheme is a scheme designed to enable disadvantaged young people who would otherwise not have been able to enter the housing market to have that opportunity. It is obvious that the same requirements are not to be imposed, then the whole point of the scheme falls away. I would like to remind you that there is an individual and concrete assessment, not only on the part of the financial institutions, but also on the part of each municipality. A significant advisory element is also involved in the granting of start-up loans. In addition, I would like to remind you again that there is less default of start-up loans than of ordinary mortgages through banks. Finally, the representative of Scotland took this up with ROBEK. I think it's funny that this criticism comes from a representative of a party who administered the highest level of ROBEK time. In 2004, there were 118 municipalities in the ROBEK register. In recent years, the number has been stable, between 40 and 50. If the number of municipalities in ROBEK is the barometer of the health status of Norwegian municipalities, I think we can establish that there is much, much better to now than when the Right was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1064	It's a little strange to hear a government council that reveals that she has not read the Progress Party's alternative budget – when she says that this is not related. We've shown on the expenditure side and on the income side that we get a balance sheet of $1 billion. kr less in profit than the government has provided. It's responsible policy, it's actually within the rule of action. But I can understand that the Council of State is bitter, when it is revealed by the Prime Minister that her own attempts to create a new policy will not be implemented by the government in which she sits. Enough about that. To the representative Haugli: The undersigned did not say that we had anything to learn from Greece. I am sorry that my post was highlighted as such. It's the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV that all the way out Greece as an example of how it can work if we spend 1 billion. kr more on the government budget than the government has committed. It's a completely irrelevant comparison when we talk about the difference of having 344 billion. kr in profit or 345 billion. kr in profit. That's not the difference, it's not 1 billion. kr on the expenditure side, which was the difference between success and failure in Greece. In the case of initial loans, the Council of State believes that it is entirely possible to give 100 pst. loan financing to disadvantaged persons because they are subject to a separate assessment. Yes, but why that discrimination? Why can't ordinary students who've got a job, who'll be able to serve 100 pst. loans, for example, also have the possibility to obtain a specific assessment of the bank and to borrow more than 85 pst.? With the policy of the government, some of those with the least ability to control will be able to borrow up to 100 p.m., while ordinary people like this. comes out of school, which has not earned equity because they have paid for their education, will not be able to borrow 100 pst, because that says the government is irresponsible. But it's not. This must be a relationship between the bank and the borrower, and the special assessment can do as well as the House Bank. What this proposal has nothing to do with, on the other hand, is the ability to control them, and how much money a borrower has. If a person receives 85 pst. of 3 million. kr, actually has a larger loan to operate than if the person borrows $2.50 million. kr to a dwelling and it is 100 pst. of the sum. So just putting 85 pst. As an instrument, when you don't look at the value of what a buyer is, you've actually achieved nothing but making it harder for ordinary people to buy housing. That seems unreasonable to me. We also need to make it easier for young people who come from normal and prosperous families to establish themselves in the housing market rather than forcing them into the rental market, as the government is now doing. It will take longer for a newly educated student who has a good job and can serve a good loan, to obtain that equity when you have to rent instead of being able to go and buy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1075	I have participated in some debates on the budget in the last few days. It's one thing that strikes me, and that's that it has our group meeting in the Labour Party in front. Because it's like every time the opposition comes to the government with constructive criticism, so we're talking about Norway – we're either talking about the municipalities, or we're talking about the education sector, or we're talking about the transport sector, or we're all talking down. It's not like that. After all, with a government that is so low in self-critical, it may be good if someone else fills up with ideas. If we go back into the cooperation reform, which I am talking about in my previous post, it strikes me that it is paradoxical that the Central Party actually does well to defend that reform as hard as they do. It is raised to doubt that the age sentence in district municipalities is different from that in city municipalities. There are several older people in the districts. The older one gets, the more often there is a need for specialised treatment. In other words, when municipalities are given responsibility for co-financing for hospital admission on 20 p.m., it primarily affects the municipalities of the Senterpartiet, which have traditionally been occupied by the district municipalities. That one then is very pleased with such a model that has no shades in it, surprises me. The same applies to the patients who are ready to print when local authorities now have to hand their hands and receive from 1 January 2012, and get a daily ticket of NOK 4000 if they do not – vital, new policies – and the municipalities have received approx. six months to prepare. The fact that government councils find it a defensive treatment for municipalities is problematic. So for a local hospital. It's been a while since they realized that the Center Party has a different understanding of reality than most people in the districts. But if you go back to Nordfjord, we see that everyone senses that the local hospital in Nordfjordeid is gone, because the most important functions are gone. I think the locals at Nordfjordeid know what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1084	I took the floor to address a problem that takes a lot of time and thinking for me. In Meløy municipality in Nordland we have a company called REC. There are several hundred employees who have received notice of termination from their employer in Christmas. We have several companies that are notifying permits as a result of being main suppliers to the photovoltaic manufacturer REC. These are people who attend to Christmas – when we are concerned about whether there is enough butter and cream and peanuts, now I see that the rib anxiety has begun to absorb more people as well – and I am concerned about whether they get some pay in January, if they have a job to go to, if they have a place where they can actually take care of themselves and their family. I am therefore very pleased that a joint committee has written a note that encourages the government to have a quick and smooth procedure, given that there will be a satisfactory application for conversion funds from the municipality of Meløy, so that the municipality can get started as soon as possible. This is not charity, this is about giving a hand to those who need it the most. Meløy Municipality has long industrial traditions, and has changed before, but the prerequisite for the transition is to have some tools to use, and to be able to maintain the skills that are there. So I hope we get this in place as soon as possible, and we're waiting for the application from Meløy Municipality. Then I have to go back a little bit to the representative of the Hagesetter description of the arrangement of the Advance Party for the municipal sector. So I can't get a grip on what this is, and I have a bunch of questions. If I have understood this correctly, is it a differentiated need-driven single-price financing system? I can't thank you for that. Is it the case that everyone should have the same basic welfare services, but that it should be done through a government designation of grants per capita? And that's going to happen in all the basic welfare areas, i.e. kindergarten, school, care and health? What are local politicians supposed to do? What is their job if all the money comes from the state and goes on out? Should they print the checks? But then I also hear the representative Hagesetter in the debate saying: Yes, but it should not be the same rate for all municipalities, among others. there shall be differences in whether the municipality is pig-grown or more densely populated. But what is the difference in the system we have today with income balancing between municipalities, where population structure, among other things. is one of the criteria we take into account, but we have a little bit more detailed system. How can we claim that this is not going to be more bureaucracy, and who is going to control and calculate all of this? The progress party system seems somewhat unclear to me. I don't think this government is going to count on that, but I hope the Progress Party can provide a detailed description of this, so we can actually decide on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1093	I have understood that the task of the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen is to act as the responsible alibi of the Advance Party. That's why I understand that he doesn't like me attacking him and the party for irresponsible economic policy. I just want to point out that I have not compared him to neither Berlusconi nor others, but I have pointed out that Norway is a clear exception to what is happening in the rest of Europe. This is because we have been in charge of economic policy, and it has been a government to which the Progress Party has been opposed. After Solvik-Olsen has confirmed his responsibility, he jumps straight up to the cash, the oil fund, and wafts with the money. It is important to point out that spending more money from the oil fund is not, as the Progress Party says, filling up with new ideas. Norway has a good public economy because this government has run for many years, but now we are facing very special new, stronger challenges, because now it's not just about what we do in Norway, but it's about what's happening in Europe, which we don't have much control over, and which can hit our export industry in particular. Then there's a point to point out that for the municipalities a low interest rate will be much more important than the billion from the Progress Party. It requires special caution. We also get that in SV. So I just want to remind you, as I said at the end of my post, that SV wants to spend more on public welfare and further develop the welfare community. This can only happen in the long term by increasing the share of growth at the expense of private consumption, and that is a policy on which the Progress Party will not participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1106	The next speaker is the representative of Gudmund Hagesetter. Gardening kits have had the word twice and get the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1109	I want to make it clear first that I haven't changed my name to Gudmund. My name is still Gjermund. I want to take the word because of things that have been said here. Among other things, the representative Sivertsen wanted an explanation of our price system. Now I have no more than 1 minute to consult here, and I believe it will take longer to explain this to the representative Sivertsen. But I just want to remind you that kindergartens were previously funded with state-owned unit prices, and resource-requiring services are also now partly financed with a state-owned unit price. The representative Håkon Haugli had a long post that I had not read the comments, that I did not know what the starting loan is, etc. I have read the notes, and I understand very well what the starting loan is, but what was my point, and on which I did not get any explanation, is why one should keep out of those who, after a banking assessment, are able to borrow a loan – so they should be required to have capital, but not others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1118	Starting loans are one of the most important housing policy instruments we have, and it is worth noting that there is almost no loss of initial loans. That's because one has a specific evaluation of the applications. It is part of the housing policy that the government has been raising since 2005. It's done by strengthening other ideas, we've done it by going through the needs, and we've done it by not just thinking about market liberalism, and it's the private business that's going to offer everything, but that we can have a relationship between the private and the public. The Norwegian banking system is very pleased with that cooperation. The house bank is very pleased with that. It's good, but the most important thing is that it helps those who otherwise had not entered the housing market, so that they can then participate in the increase in value that others get. So it's an important tool. Dale is again taking up the Reform of Cooperation. He wasn't talking about the government, he was talking about the Center Party. That's what the representative wants, but I'm here as a representative of the government and the government's policy. The government shall implement an interaction reform which is of particular importance in district municipalities. The fact that people in Valdres can travel to a local medical centre and get dialysis instead of sitting in a car for hours each way to a hospital has enormous positive effects on the individual. The creation of skilled work places in district municipalities that can provide good services has enormous implications for local communities, but again: the important thing is people, the ones who get the services, they are the ones that are involved. I see great positive effects of the cooperation reform, and we get it phased in. So we have to take care of it. We may have to make some changes, but the government is willing to do it if necessary. So until the article that Sortevik held earlier about the county roads, and how bad it is there. I mean, the county councils turn out to be good vegetarians. They'll bet a lot on the county roads. They are making full use of the interest-rate compensation schemes. We've added 400 million. I am quite sure that the eagerness and interest of the road that I – as a former state politician – knew in the county councils actually results in a stronger commitment and a greater awareness of the importance of the road network in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1127	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1130	I think we can agree that the county council is a better weigher than what the government was at least. They'll get that rose. Nor does the Progress Party argue against starting loans as such, we only demonstrate the lack of logic of the government when they are for 100 pst. loans to disadvantaged but against the possibility for ordinary people with good income to borrow more than 85 pst. There's no logical context. So to the representative of Egeland, who is standing on the floor of Stortinget and seriously believes that 1 billion. The difference between the expenditure side of the State budget is the difference between the low interest rate and the high interest rate. In a budget of 1 000 billion. kr represents an increase of 0,1 pst. the difference between the good and the bad economy for all those who have loans. It's not credible. Just three weeks ago, the oil industry adjusted its estimate for investment on a Norwegian base by 5 billion. kr. Then SV was not out there to warn against interest rate increase. On 9 June, the SV voted in favour of new investment of 90 billion. kr on the Norwegian base. Then SV did not mention the rule of action and interest in one word, but 1 billion. So the hospital and the school are trapped. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1142	If I wasn't very wrong, I thought to the right that State Council Liv Signe Navarsete said in his post that the government has not laid down any hospitals. It may be that the Council of State is right in that. That's probably what we're going to get on December 16th, then the deadline for the possible closure of the orthopaedic department on Nordfjordeid. If that happens, I believe that there is almost no human being in Nordfjord who is soaking up this hospital, who will not claim that one has laid down Nordfjord Hospital on Nordfjordeid. The North Fjordings have collected considerable funds, so that the Nord Fjord action group could sue Health Fjord in connection with this. There'll be a legal clarification, probably in a short time, and then we'll see what the result is. I hope that the action group will win out on its case. If they do, the judgment will be based on the fact that the court also believes that one has closed the hospital, based on the assessment one does. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State Life Signe Navarsete has registered herself that her members from Nordfjord have written countless readings about this, where it is clear what a meaning of what the Central Party has been in government. So I think a unison in Nordfjord thinks that the government has laid down Nordfjord Hospital, if the orthopaedic department is laid down after December 16. I also know that the Council of State Liv Signe Navarsete is well aware of what has happened in Lærdal – in Navarsete’s municipality – where there is also an action group that has worked hard to maintain the maternity ward there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1153	The first part of the debate on the budgetary position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee was closed. The budget chapter of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Justice goes on to form part of two of the debate. The President will further refer to the arrangements already adopted for this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1160	This part of the debate is about protection, immigration, integration and diversity. It is good that we have managed to organise the debate in a way that gives this important field the place it deserves. As is certainly well known now, the government’s overall objective for the work in the field of refugee and immigration is a socially decent and managed immigration and a humane, solidarity and legal certainty of asylum and refugee policy. We must respect our international obligations towards people in distress, and we need labour immigration. I would already like to say at the outset that immigration and diversity are positive for Norwegian society. How positive depends on how we succeed in integrating those who stay here. Equivalence is a core value in our society. Experience of equivalency is a prerequisite for trust between people. It is particularly important in a society of greater diversity. When people experience the security and opportunity of unfolding as part of a larger obligating community with rights and obligations, we also prevent unnecessary conflicts, of which we have unfortunately seen too much in some other European countries. The Council of Europe has just examined a report entitled 'To live together in the 21st century'. The report calls for strong and clear political leadership now that xenophobia and racism are once again on the rise in Europe. The majority in this room will take that leadership, be clear and meet claims with facts and democratic values. We have a better starting point than many other European countries. The OECD shows that we are among the best at integration. Unemployment among immigrants in Norway is lower than that of the majority population in many European countries right now. This is because we have so far managed to take action against the effects of the financial crisis. We haven't spent our money on tax havens, but on keeping people at work. For a while back, SSB's figures showed that we get one job for NOK 7.6 million via tax havens. Public purchases of goods and services give us four times as many. Directly into public employment, we get 16 times as many jobs for the same amount. Choices we make in economic policy also have implications for integration policy. If we keep people in work, we also succeed better with integration. Here, there's an ideological distinction between position and opposition. It's not tax relief, but people in work who create values and finance well-being. Women's entry into the labour market contributed significantly to the level of well-being we have today. That reserve is largely taken out. Immigration is the opportunity we now have. Demographic developments show with all due clarity that this is necessary, but then we have to have jobs that people can go into. In June the evening post had a notional advertisement on the first page: 220,000 job vacancies in service, oil and construction – both Norwegian and foreign workers are welcome to apply. Let's hope that the ad is still going to apply for a while to come. So until the debate on immigration and integration, which I think recently has evolved in a rather strange direction – it's an attempt to turn it into a debate on the debate. In my opinion, this is a total derailment. One of these people says in the newspaper today that 22 July has put a damp hand over the immigration debate. Then I have two messages for Siv Jensen. The first: stop abuse on July 22 in this way! The second is that Siv Jensen is misinformed, the debate is going. This fall we have had eight debates on asylum and integration in this room plus that it has been the subject of many of the debates on the budget. I have not seen Siv Jensen in one of those debates, nor here today. Siv Jensen calls Støre a "puddle," without saying what she thinks herself to be, so there we only get a guess, and she promotes four demands for the government: ‘The asylant inflow must descend.’ – It goes down. ‘Immigration break in Oslo’ – how? By refusing access to the city border? What, then, are the criteria? Apartheid was abolished in South Africa many years ago. Now we're going to introduce it in Oslo? And what about all the immigrants that are needed to fill and carry out the necessary jobs in the city? And if it is that the state of Oslo is so bad, where was the Progress Party in its eight years at power? I have a suspicion that one was more concerned with media lookups than of doing something positive for integration into his own city. «Implement proposed measures» in the integration document of the Workers' Party. The Big Committee proposed 99, the country meeting I think ended up with 111 different measures. We're in the process, but we can't take them all at once. And our cooperation parties must also be allowed to say their own. But the most important thing that has happened so far, with full agreement, was the extension from 300 to 600 hours in Norwegian and social knowledge. Other examples where we are either in part or in progress are shorter processing times in foreign affairs, faster settlement, children on the flight message, coming over the New Year, return agreements – the number is sixfold, with the new on the bed it can soon become a time-lapse – the number of returns has increased significantly, including the volunteers, etc., etc. I have a list of 19 points, I can't go through all of them that we're already dealing with. 'Forbidden burka' also requires Siv Jensen, but it did not actually get a majority at the National Labour Party meeting, so she cannot blame the government for that. Then, too, there will soon be a new communication on culture as an instrument of integration policy, a separate communication on better integration into the spring, and then, of course, we will take many of our matters further. It's time to get the debate back on track, based on facts, values and attitudes. But there are people who always want to stigmatize immigrants. It may quickly prove to be a loss project. We know all the media's attachment to polarizing, giving extreme expressions greater space than they deserve. The result will always be a signified picture of reality. Then I think the SSB's investigation of the North's attitudes to immigrants is closer to the truth. The last measurement came last week, and it shows a relatively stable, positive attitude towards immigrants and their contribution to Norwegian society. To the extent that there is movement in the attitude, there is a positive direction: Immigrants most make a useful effort in Norwegian working life. Yeah, says 74 pst. Immigrants most abuse social welfare systems. Yeah, say 35 pst. Immigrants most enrich the cultural life of Norway. Yeah, says 74 pst. Immigrants most are a source of insecurity in society. Yeah, say 35 pst. – Then there are quite a few left at the other end. All immigrants in Norway should have the same opportunity to work as Norwegians. Yeah, says 88 pst. Immigrants in Norway should strive to be as equal as possible to the Nordics. Yeah, says 52 pst. 48 pst. So we're going to say the opposite. Labour immigration from countries other than the Nordic countries mostly contributes positively to the Norwegian economy. Yeah, says 70 pst. In other words, the Nordics are far better than their reputation. This is a good starting point for a constructive debate on instruments for even better integration. Because, as I said, we're good at integration, but we can get better. The budget of the BLD sets out the status. Some important things are in place, for example: what I mentioned about extending to 600 hours of Norwegian and social education, but it is a challenge that the results of the introduction scheme are not as good as before. It has already been addressed by the Council of State. Some municipalities have an improvement potential, both in terms of housing and integration. It's taken care of. There is a discrepancy between the proportion of persons employed in the population as a whole and among immigrants. The contribution of civil society to integration can be better. Culture has been a hitherto undervalued instrument. I could mention much more – many more tasks ahead of us. But there were three important investigations on current bands in the fall. They are followed up, and – as I said – to spring comes a big message for an even better integration, which is about better coordination and coordination of instruments across public sectors. I believe that this House has a special responsibility when that debate comes, for it to be conducted on the basis of facts and factual reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1231	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1234	This year, Norway will accept approx. 9 000 asylum applications, and some asylum seekers will, of course, be accommodated. Next year, there is a great opportunity for this figure to increase because of the turmoil we see in Europe. My point is to see the relationship between the number of immigrants, asylum seekers, and the challenges we face in terms of integration in Norway. Does the representative see a link between the number coming to Norway and the challenges we face in integrating them into Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1239	Now, first of all, I would like to point out that the immigration that is taking place in Norway, for a large part, is labour immigration, which we actually need and need. If we look at the four roads that are in Norway, there is the greatest immigration in the labour market, and then there is family reunification – and then asylum seekers and those who come here for education, which make up about the same small groups. So I think the Progress Party is overestimating the issue. It is clear that what is happening outside the world affects the number of asylum seekers both to Norway and to all other countries. Foreigners also say that the most important reason for changes in the number of asylum seekers is conflicts outside Europe. It's people who are entitled to our protection under international conventions. So I think the issue raised here is not relevant at all, because we have the obligations we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1246	I agree with the representative of Christoffersen that the asylum flow from Europe will hardly increase anything in particular – not so many from Greece come to seek asylum in Norway, at least not Greeks. But those who come, as the representative was in the house, are immigrants. We have recently discussed a representative proposal from the Right that focuses on this, and a week and a half ago, Prime Minister Stoltenberg was in the Questionnaire and answered a question from me about what about those who lose their jobs and who remain in Norway, and who then lose the daily allowance if they attend Norwegian training courses that are not approved AMO courses – for example. Polish construction workers? Does the representative of Christoffersen see that we have some challenges in the time to come, in raising their skills and improving their chances of returning to the labour market, and will she open up Norwegian courses for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1251	It is too early to say whether we can open up Norwegian courses, but we have made changes to the permitting legislation earlier as a result of a difficult labour market situation, and the government has said that although we have now returned to the ‘normal situation’ in terms of the permitting legislation, we may be willing to review it again. One of the things I said that we are going to discuss around new messages is the proposal of the National Labour Party meeting that workers and their families should be entitled to 300 hours of Norwegian and social vocational training, regardless of their situation on the labour market. But that's out of the 111 points that we haven't reached far enough. We chose to prioritize the extension from 300 to 600 hours for the others, but we do not ignore the fact that this can be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1256	The representative of Christoffersen himself mentioned Gahr Støre's Committee of Integration, where the representative himself was present, if I do not remember faults. One of the measures proposed by the Støre Committee is to raise the entry point for the maintenance requirement. Immigrant regulation is therefore used to promote integration. Where is the link here, and why is it so important for the Workers' Party to make it harder with e.g. Family reunification?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1261	Yes, that's what the representative Bekkewold says, that I was a member of that committee, and the proposal that was adopted at the national meeting, to consider raising the point of impact, is linked to the debate that the instrument is actually meant to prevent, namely, forced marriage. So we saw as late as this week in my own local unforeseeable and a bit unfortunate of the legislation against families that for a temporary period due to illness had too low income in the reference person, and it gets some rash that we haven't thought of. The government is going to go through the experience with that legislation, and then it's not 100 pst. it is certain that the decision of the Workers' Party will be taken at this national meeting. Maybe there's going to be a new decision at the next national meeting, because we see that things might have to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1267	The cord shift has thus been completed. The next speaker is Morten Ørsal Johansen, who has a speaking time of up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1272	It was good the president said "up to 20 minutes". That means I don't have to spend 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1280	That's perfectly correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1283	That's good. How happy the congregation can be! The response to the State budget is many. Some are happy, and others are disappointed. But even in Norway, we can all be equally happy, at least not all the time. As we have seen, we could have allocated more money in many sectors, in both the infrastructure, health and justice sectors, to name a few. But there is one sector that is always protected, namely immigration. It rarely says about money. Of course, this is not the case where the majority of the Grand Duchy prioritises immigrants over its own citizens, even though it may sometimes work that way. To date, Norway has received 8 351 asylum seekers — i.e. not later than 1 December. On average, this is 775 asylum seekers per month, and if this is to apply also for December, then we will pass 9 000 asylum seekers in 2011. What strikes me is that Norway, with the hostile climate we have — and a social environment that may reflect the country’s climate — is so attractive. Could it have anything to do with benefits we have in Norway, either social benefits or social security, which may be among the best in the world? Can it have anything to do with a person in Norway being thoroughly informed about all his rights, but not so well informed about his obligations? Or could it be because in Norway a few can pay quite well to not do anything? It's an illusion that everyone who comes to Norway is coming to get a job. Many people think it is excellent to live on the account of Norwegian taxpayers. For all political parties, including to a high degree for the Progress Party, the primary objective is to maintain the welfare state at about the same level as today. In the Progress Party, we have understood that the condition for maintaining the welfare state is a high value creation in society. If money doesn't come in, it's very little to distribute. Unfortunately, I cannot say that I am absolutely convinced that this fundamental truth has equal understanding in all groups. But it's not just the value creation that is a condition for the welfare state. Another condition is that the number of users is limited. If there is a huge imbalance between all those who use welfare benefits and those who pay, the welfare community is not doing well. Unresponsive immigration and integration policies could be a small bomb under the welfare state. The asylum seekers' groups that have dominated this year come from Somalia, Eritrea and Afghanistan. These three countries are distinguished by, among others: to have very poorly developed school systems. The result is that many of those who come from these countries are illiterate, and many of them have never had work either. Getting illiterates who can't speak Norwegian and completely lack work experience, to become good, productive Norwegian citizens, is a challenge that needs to be taken seriously. The figures for employment for just these groups are discouraging. Well under half of all Afghans in Norway are in work, and only about a third of the Somalis. Of course, we have to commend those who have overcome the linguistic and cultural barriers we have in Norway and are able to support themselves, but my point is that there are too many groups that cannot. They thus present a challenge for the welfare society. Then my question is, what will the government do to limit immigration, so that these challenges are reduced in the future? Norway needs labour, but we need labour that can do the jobs it needs to be done. Norway has become a high-tech society, which needs highly skilled labour. Many will refer to Norway’s international commitments resulting from the conventions signed by Norway. However, Finland has also signed exactly the same conventions as Norway, and Finland has good control over immigration. They have had this from the first day and also have significantly fewer asylum seekers than Norway. When Finns have done it, why can't we do it too? I would suggest that we would have made it clear with the immigration policy of the Progress Party. Then it is that most applicants for asylum in Norway justify their applications for persecution in their home country. And, yes – many have been persecuted in their homeland. These we're going to help get a future that allows them to be safe and raise their kids in safe environments. However, it also turns out that there are a strange number of people who are insecure and persecuted before receiving a residence permit in Norway. When it's secured, they're not so persecuted anymore. There are many stories about people who travel back to their homeland on vacation. Even those who travel to their home country on vacation with their kids and leave the kids to grow up in an environment unaffected by Norwegian culture. Then my question is, how persecuted are you? My point is that the basis for asylum applications is often a little disappointing. The alleged persecutors are not so persecuted yet, it turns out. It is a major challenge for the police and for the UDI to reveal scammers and send them back where they come from, without undue delay. Integration is a major problem for large groups of immigrants. Some find it completely unnecessary to learn Norwegian, which is the key to adapting to Norwegian society, to get a job, to become part of the social network and to get well integrated. Others take a great distance from Norwegian culture and the entire value base on which Norwegian society rests. Some are even so extreme that they want to introduce sharialover in Norway, i.e. a legal system that reflects the conditions of the Arab peninsula in the early Middle Ages. Luckily, it's a great few, at least so far. There are many parties around inclusion, but those holding these parties often live in areas with few immigrants and have limited contact with them. Even they may not help to include a single immigrant. They leave it to young people, women and men who live in areas with many immigrants. In practice, these will have to adapt to immigrants and not vice versa. There won't be much inclusion of that. It is important to take seriously inclusion. It is important to include those who come to this country, who need protection, and who need to come to a safe and good country because they were persecuted in their own country. Therefore, it is also a great responsibility for Norway, which is to accept them, to give them this safe crop. It's not safe, and it's not good to come to a country where you have to sit for months and wait for applications to be processed, where you have to sit for months and wait for school places, or sit for months, and maybe years, to get a job. This is the challenge facing Norwegian municipalities around them, which is the challenge facing Norwegian municipalities. There are Norwegian municipalities that have to take up the challenge of providing school places, providing education, providing health services and getting jobs for those who come to Norway. The more that comes, the greater the challenges for the Norwegian municipalities. We know that Norwegian municipalities are struggling financially to get this to work together. It turns out they spend more money integrating their new countrymen than they get from the state. This must also be taken into account by the Norwegian Magnificent when we look at integration. Will Norwegian municipalities have to pay more than it costs to integrate their new compatriots, or is it actually the responsibility of the Norwegian Magnificent and the government, who say yes to taking immigrants and asylum seekers into this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1317	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1320	The Progress Party has changed the figure for immigration policy, and we in the Committee warmly welcome the representative to the Committee and to the job there. In an interview with the NRK on 27 October, the following is said about the new immigration and integration policy figure of the Progress Party: ‘He believes that Norwegian immigration and integration policies have a weakness that almost overshadows everyone else’. And that's that ‘the time period for processing asylum applications is too long’. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, strong cuts are proposed in the framework of the field of asylum and immigration – this year, as in previous years. In order to realise the desire of the Progress Party for a more realistic and sustainable immigration policy, in their opinion, the Progress Party proposes to cut operating costs to a total of 502 million. kr. Does the Advancement Party feel that if you want a faster procedure, it will harmonize with such a large cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1337	I'll say a thousand thanks for the welcome. It has been a nice start to getting into a new committee, and I appreciate the colleagues I have in that committee. When it comes to processing time, it is correct, what I said, that the processing time is too long. It is one of the main challenges we face in terms of integration in Norway, although – and it should be noted in the name of justice – the procedure has fallen considerably. With regard to the representative's question about our cut in the allocation, it is related to the immigration and asylum policy we want. If the representative had also read our entire budget position, one can see that we're halving the number of immigrants and asylum seekers. As a result, there are also opportunities to cut the allocation to the various levels, while expecting some efficiency in both departments and agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1346	It's approaching Christmas, it's sour and cold out, and then some of us get a little extra desire to be kind. For some, it's obviously a problem. We heard the news yesterday that the Progress Party in Kristiansand has come up with the idea of punishing people who give to beggars. Is there anything the Progress Party on Stortinget has also evaluated? Does the representative think this is a good idea? Then you can wonder whether such a penalty should also include what the Advance Party calls organized begging, so that those of us who tend to give to the Christmas row of the Salvation Army, even in that case will be fined.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1355	We who give for charitable purposes and charities, neither the Advancement Party nor any other fines. It was just supposed to be missing! With regard to the specific matter in Kristiansand Progress Party, I have unfortunately not read about it. But there is a great deal of consensus, including in the political environment, about the challenges we face with the organised beggar bands that come from Eastern Europe to Norway, where it turns out that there are no individuals behind the beggars – they are simply organized in networks to beg for the backers to make money. Yes, if it's up to me, every one of you in this organized business will be fined.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1362	I am also among those who got me a surprise when I saw the newspaper today. I want to follow it up as the representative's party leader, Siv Jensen, today says there: “Very many people feel that there has been a damp, invisible hand over the debate” – that is, the integration debate. The representative Lise Christoffersen reminded us that we have had eight debates on the field of integration – and in addition several budget debates where this has been the subject here in the Chamber. I am curious whether the representative Ørsal Johansen believes that there has also been such a ‘bad, invisible hand’ over the integration debates here in the Chamber, or whether there are other debates the Progress Party feels as problematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1372	With regard to the debates that have taken place in Stortinget, they have gone on a free and sound basis – it should be lacking. Any proposal and any matter pending in the Grand Duchy must be dealt with in a thorough and sound manner. It has a hat, and we have had a climate of debate that, in my opinion, has been good, where one has had the opportunity to make his comments and presentations, without having it down. There have been factual, good arguments. So that's what the Stortinget – and especially the committee – is supposed to praise. With regard to the general debate on society, after 22 July, there have been some tendencies that this debate has been in a way slowed down, so that it has not been equally legitimate for everyone to express their views. But I think it's changing, and that the debate is now at such a level that we can be allowed to express ourselves as we please, most of us – at least those who do not have the extreme attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1380	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1383	This year, when the Municipal and Administrative Committee has been implemented to divide the budget debate into two parts, it is because we have a very wide scope of work – from asylum policy to central government, from the Husbank to the UDI, from municipal economy to the IMDI. I would, of course, like to focus on integration and immigration policy in this article. But in the light of the post-war, there are a lot of the issues we are facing in this debate that could have been raised in the previous one. For the municipal sector, rural and regional policies, there is a greater link between them, including different aspects of immigration policy – not least labour immigration, which has become an important area. The debate on immigration and integration has focused too much on a small proportion of our new citizens, namely asylum seekers. You see that in the budget as well. That is where the main pillars are in terms of appropriations. But as I have said, I think it will be more important in the future to focus on the new, large group, namely the migrant workers. Recently, there has also been a very large focus on a group that is not actually supposed to be in Norway, namely the returnees – or the illegal immigrants. A major challenge in the coming years, for which we need to facilitate and develop a policy, is precisely the work of immigrants. Some return to their country of origin after some time, but more and more live in Norway. I spoke to Minister Billström in Sweden about the circular migration, where you may grow up in one country, study in another country, work in a third country, then move back to either the country of birth or the country of study – or maybe stay. We'll see more and more of this in the time that's coming. There will be more and more global migration, and there will be more and more people with skills and needs – I kept saying – better economies moving around the world. This puts our policy today too little up to meet. The right considers that immigrants enrich society and working life through their experience, knowledge and willingness to work, and with the ideas they can contribute as a result of having a different cultural background. At the same time, the multicultural society faces challenges that need to be solved in order to realise the opportunities of each individual person. It is therefore important to use the first phase of increased language and social education and inclusion in working life. It is important that measures for increased integration target women and children in particular. Right wants to strengthen the introduction work, and in our alternative budget we propose, among other things. to provide participants in introduction courses with children of kindergarten age with free nursery facilities and to extend the offer of language mapping to all four-year-olds. We believe it is important to facilitate the introduction of the new arrival system for immigrants and refugees into the whole family. Basic Norwegian skills are very important for the success of children in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we capture all children with language problems at an earlier date than today. The language-monitoring system, which has been implemented in some municipalities in the country, includes not only children with a minority background but also children with language difficulties. The system must become nationwide and developed in line with the knowledge gained as a result of the evaluation carried out. It is important to facilitate the inclusion of the introduction system for newly arrived immigrants and refugees into the whole family. An important means of achieving this is to provide this group with free childcare services, provided that both mother and father participate in the scheme or are in work or education. There are very many non-governmental organisations that are doing an excellent job of integration. This resource may mean even more that Norway will succeed in its integration work. One of the organisations I want to bring forward is the MiRA Centre, a resource centre for immigrant and refugee women from all over the country and a meeting place for engaged and socially active women and girls with a minority background who contribute to both integration and gender equality. The work of this centre should be extended. These actions will facilitate better integration of women and children in Norwegian society. Several non-governmental organisations carry out important integration work. In 2011, the Red Cross has had to reject several participants at many of its various events. Therefore, the Right believes that these voluntary offers need to be strengthened. A strengthening of the proposed budget has been proposed, but we want to strengthen it further by 10 million. kr in our budget for 2012. Nevertheless, the municipalities have the primary responsibility for the introduction work. It is therefore important to continue to provide grants for municipal introduction measures. It is necessary to further tighten asylum policy to reduce the number of groundless asylum seekers in Norway. In its alternative budget, the right has proposed measures such as more stringent asylum policies. The estimate for new asylum seekers is therefore reduced by 2 000. The proposals include, inter alia: to establish more return agreements, increased maintenance requirements for family reunification and information measures in countries from which most groundless asylum seekers come. At the same time, an instructional authority for the government towards UNE is proposed on fundamental issues, similar to the UDI regime, and the government is asked to review the procedures for the forwarding and follow-up of criminal proceedings and asylum interviews in UDI and UNE to state lawyers. There is a need to develop an alternative approach to current policies and a new model for the operation of asylum recipients that can contribute to greater competence in the field of education and training. It is relevant in this context to develop their own receptions of competence, located in different parts of the country, which may specialise in different areas of the field, such as: return problems, screening, single minor asylum seekers, qualification, etc. We do not propose a reduction in the funding for Norwegian training, even if we adopt a policy that will reduce the number of asylum seekers. This means that we are, in reality, strengthening Norwegian training for asylum seekers and immigrants. We have made proposals on several occasions to control the flow of asylum, but also to improve the integration of newly arrived immigrants who are going to live their lives in Norway. Sometimes we find that the government parties join the proposals – not when we promote them, of course, but they choose to wait until they promote the same measures themselves. There is a lot of unnecessary time and resources for those who are going out of Norway, for those who are going to stay in Norway, and for the Norwegian community as a whole. It is important to facilitate growth-enhancing labour immigration to Norway. In order to maintain the current level of well-being and ensure value creation through a living knowledge-based economy, Norway needs to pursue a policy that enables us to assert ourselves internationally in the competition for skilled labour. Norwegian employment and business will need special skills to cope with competition with international companies. The enlarged international labour market gives Norwegian industry more opportunities to recruit the necessary labour force. In addition, there is a need for more targeted measures to attract specific competences to Norway. It is not obvious that the competent labour force is applying to Norway. I refer here to the Right’s proposal in Document 8:150 S for 2010–2011 on measures to ensure growth-enhancing labour migration. In the third quarter of this year, the population of Norway has increased by about 10 %. Twenty thousand. It's the highest population growth ever. It was equally high in the third quarter of last year. Of this, we have a domestic birth surplus of 6,000, and we have a foreign migration of 14,000. So two out of three new residents come from abroad, and by far the majority of these are immigrants. During the spring of 2012, the population of Norway will pass 5 million inhabitants. Poland, Lithuania, the Philippines, Germany and Latvia are now the most immigrants from these countries. While there were 3,000 people from Poland in the last quarter, there were more than 300 from the largest asylum country, Somalia. In 1982, the SSB submitted a comprehensive report on population development in Norway, assuming that the population of Norway in 2016 would be 4.3 million inhabitants. It was a pretty high estimate, from 4.1 million in 1981. Now we're probably passing 5 million people in the spring of 2012. What's the point of these number exercises? Well, Norway needs to develop a completely different approach from now on a modern policy for immigrants and their integration. To sum up, the right is a supporter of a liberal labour immigration policy, a strict but fair asylum policy and a very strict return policy of illegal immigrants or returnees.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1426	I'm standing here with a little print from the web where it says "Trond in England". Then I'm sure everyone will understand what Trond is talking about. Furthermore, it is on the Internet from the Conservative National Assembly in the United Kingdom – it is probably a year and a half ago or something like that – that the Grand Representative Trond Helleland said, ‘This is like being at home’ – after hearing both party leader David Cameron and financier George Osborne spokesperson. Now the same Cameron, now in the role of Prime Minister, like Merkel and Sarkozy, has actually stated that the multicultural society has played down. I wonder if the representative of Greece feels the same way at home in that statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1433	We had a corresponding line exchange about this last year. I have also been to the national meeting of the Conservatives this year, and I can still report with enthusiasm from those national meetings – that is very interesting. What is going on is multiculturalism, which has been sought after by both the French President, the German Chancellor and the English Prime Minister. The reason is that many people feel that they have been too little aware of their own roots, their own values and their own identity in relation to how to meet immigrants. I believe that a fundamental prerequisite for successful integration is both that the Norwegian population is safe on its own values and that the newcomers know the Norwegian values. That's why I'm glad that the government is proposing as the Right, that's to expand language and social knowledge training. It contributes to increased understanding and less problems in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1440	Lise Christoffersen is given the floor to reply No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1443	It's fine with that line-no arrangement. 2, because then there is an opportunity to also thank you for the answer. At the same time, I just want to make sure – but I think I know the answer – that, like economic policy, it will not be the refugee and asylum policy of the Progress Party that will shape any government cooperation between the two parties in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1450	What I believe this autumn has shown, and as both the representative of Ørsal Johansen and the representative of Christoffersen were involved, is that there have been a number of debates in this Chamber on both integration policy and asylum policy. If one goes through the decisions taken, at the latest last week, on increased access to prison, among other things, one sees that there was a concerted growth behind it. What I said in that debate, and which I can repeat here, is that there is a big difference between the tabloid headings, where it is about making up the contradictions of immigration policy, and the real policy being pursued. To a large extent, there is agreement in this Chamber – from the SV to the Progress Party – on how to deal with this with asylum seekers who may be kept, or imprisoned, and in the integration policy, where I have felt that the Progress Party is also involved in extended Norwegian training. So I don't see this as a big problem. It is rhetorical and not politics that is the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1457	In the change of words before today, Ørsal Johansen said that the number of asylum seekers can increase as a result of what is happening in Europe. If European asylum seekers are not coming, that is a point, because we are becoming an island of wealth – and I will be able to add: asylum seekers from North Africa. At least it is obvious that what affects the number of asylum seekers has to do with the situation in the rest of the world – war, crises and – gradually – climate change. The right calculates a decrease of 2 000 asylum seekers in its budget. I should have had fun hearing a little about how they got to that number – whether it's ‘thinking of a number’, or whether there's more calculations behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1464	It is at least interesting to be able to establish that the constraints we have proposed in the past, and where we have also set figures for how we wanted the expected development to be, have to a large extent hit. The reason for this is that the government has led a tighter asylum policy. The government carried out a lot of work – there were probably some dissenters from SV in that case – and it has helped to reduce the flow of asylum. Then it is clear that the world situation is very crucial for the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway. However, when it was suggested that the crisis in Europe would help to bring more people from outside, from other countries – from North Africa, for example. – because the economic conditions change, more people will come to Norway. Then it is important that we now look at the position of the Brochmann Committee, follow up on the things that lie there, in terms of benefits, and look at how we can have a system where we take care of those who are demanding asylum, who are real refugees, and send back those who are economic refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1471	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1475	In 2010, there were 43 million people fleeing because of war, conflict and gross violations of human rights. Half of these were children. The Norwegian asylum debate is very much about numbers and wants the figures to be as low as possible. With 43 million refugees, the 285 000 asylum seekers who come to Europe each year become a very low figure. At the same time, when we know that there are about 400,000 border guards at the borders of Europe, we see that there are two and a half border guards per asylum seeker coming to Europe. One of the world's largest refugee camps is in Kenya, and in fact, it is the poorest countries in the world that take the greatest part of the responsibility for fulfilling human rights, the right to life and the right to a secure opportunity, which are fundamental to the Refugee Convention. Some people are very concerned about whether we serve on the refugees. Then I don't think in terms of enrichment, but in terms of dollars and cents. Is it reasonable to expect Norway to serve refugees in the short term? I'm thinking about what Arnulf Upperland wrote in the poem 'You must not sleep', when Norway was ahead of the refugee stream before World War II, and failed. Then Upperland wrote: ‘You must not go to your merchantship and think about what brings profits and losses!’ Children coming to Norway as asylum seekers are a particularly vulnerable group. I would like to highlight two measures that are in the process of improving the situation of children on the run. Firstly, I am pleased that we are now putting in place a representative system for lone minor asylum seekers, with a view to an introduction from 2013, and that the current regime of defence will be strengthened in the meantime. Secondly, the government is working on a growing-up message about refugees, which will address important issues in the situation of children. The Ministry of Justice has held several open meetings in connection with this message, including: focused on children who have been in Norway for a long time without a legal stay, children who disappear from reception, the situation of single minor asylum seekers and issues related to the transport of children and families with children. Practicing the best interests of the child under the Foreign Affairs Act will be an important topic. The inclusion policy is about organising society so that everyone can have equal opportunities regardless of background. All shall have the same rights, obligations and opportunities to participate in and contribute to the community. Inclusion is a two-way process requiring adaptation of both the community and immigrants. We need to ensure good welfare arrangements that prevent immigrants from becoming a new subclass, including: by ensuring good language training, strengthening labour market skills, combating high school drop-outs and providing affordable kindergartens to all. Employers have to do their job in order to overcome discrimination in the workplace, and most people have to mobilize against everyday racism. At the same time, immigrants are required to make an effort to learn language and get to work. It is important that minority communities themselves mobilise participation in joint arenas, ranging from parents’ meetings and sports to participation in elections. Participation in the labour market provides individual financial security, the possibility of a social network and a meaningful everyday life. Successful integration therefore depends on the active labour market policy of municipalities targeting immigrants. For SV, getting more women with a minority background in work is a priority task. Work provides financial autonomy, which is a prerequisite for women's liberation and equality, and is an effective response to child poverty. Good Norwegian knowledge is the key to contacting others, to friendship, to understanding cultural phenomena and to mastering a job. Therefore, it is so important that we have extended the right and obligation to Norwegian training from 300 to 600 hours and extended the personality of the introduction program. Free core hours spent in kindergartens and the conversion of cash support are also important measures to increase the level of employment. So I share the government's concern that the results regarding the goal of rapid transition to work and education after the introduction programme is not as good as before. There are large differences in results between municipalities and municipalities. It is good that the government focuses on improving this, and that there will be a theme in the forthcoming EIC.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1515	I think SV's representative had a very good introduction to his post, where he described some of the big picture – 43 million people on the run. It is quite right, as it was said, that those who take the greatest responsibility are the poor neighbouring countries. It is not Europe that is flooded by refugees. 285,000 refugees come to Europe, and this year maybe 9 000 will come to Norway. We're not being flooded. The government has declined to a level in the case of allowance refugees, i.e.: people with refugee status. We have been stabilizing on 1 000 refugees. Now we're talking about increasing the quota to 1,200. The Christian People's Party has said that we must at least receive 2 000 quota refugees in Norway. What does SV think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1522	I am not a member of the committee and have not been in the individual discussions – I have to ask for an understanding of that. But it's a unified decision to increase the quota to 1,200. So it might be that we want to work to increase it further. We agree that the problem is not that we are flooded by refugees, but that, on the contrary, we should take our share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1527	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1530	I want to say something in general first, something about the big picture and a little about values. Integration is a question of participation and schooling. It is a matter of taking their duties seriously and using their rights as needed. An integrated immigrant is actively involved in the different areas of society, not least at local level — in work, in school, in volunteering and at work. The centre party is also, as everyone knows, happy in the nation state. More than ever, the nation state shows its strength in these days of turbulent times in Europe. We are the guarantor of Norwegian policy against EU membership. We build society from below. We are the party for strong and living communities, and we believe that the safest framework for people's everyday lives is still the nation state. It has not expired. A nation state is something other than a loose assembly of people who happen to be in the same area at a given time. This community must not be defined for snowy weather. It is particularly important today, in the time of immigration, in a world that is more mobile and global than ever. Communitys may dwell in great disunity and much controversy, but in one community all talk. We understand each other's views, we speak the same language, and we seek compromises. Norway shall not shut itself down in a small bubble. We're going to be a natural part of a pulsating and hectic world, but at the same time retain our peculiarity. A national community of values must be limited to fundamental values: democracy, equality, equivalency, tolerance, freedom of expression and the other human rights. In addition, it is of course essential that those who want to become Norwegian citizens learn Norwegian. There, the increase in the number of Norwegian hours in the introduction programme is an important tool. We have an integration policy that aims to further develop the value community that characterises Norwegian society today, a community of values that is deep enough to maintain confidence in individuals and between groups. Without confidence across both old and new dividing lines in Norwegian society, I think the effectiveness of society is falling, well-being is falling, and it becomes more difficult to defend and further develop a redistributive welfare state. Thus, for a red-green government that wants to turn around and further develop Community solutions, it is important to facilitate the maintenance and development of trust across borders. Immigration to Norway is an integral part of our history, from far back – the Hanseatens in Bergen, and German mining engineers in my homelands in the Røros area. And from 1970 we have the new immigration, which in the number and transformation force puts other periods completely in the shade. As others have stressed, Norwegian integration policy is largely a success story. One reason for this is that the government is following developments closely and putting in place measures where necessary and reasonable — not least with three NOUs on this theme delivered this year, and next year the government’s communication of integration is coming. The aim is to continue a comprehensive, knowledge-based and sustainable policy. It is very gratifying that the number of leftovers in the UDI has decreased and that the length of proceedings has been reduced. The government's resource usage is strong. We have reason to believe that the efficiency improvement will also help to reduce the number of asylum seekers who do not need individual protection. A higher level of approval may indicate that the problem of groundless asylum applications has already been reduced. I would like to point out that the establishment of the National Identity and Documentation Centre helps the police and the Foreign Administration clarify the identity of non-residents who live in Norway for various reasons. This is probably an example of how this government is working well to tackle the challenges that the immigration and integration field presents at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1553	Let me first say that in the case of asylum and integration policy in Norway, there is a very large cross-political consensus on the policy pursued. Although the Christian People's Party has challenged some of the rules, which have become very rigid, there is still quite a consensus about the big lines. What I think we should spend even more time on, and which is really the big challenge, is the integration debate. Now there's a message for Stortinget on the basis of both the Brochmann Committee and the Kaldheim Committee's reports, and that we're going to get an integration debate here, I look forward to it. I think it's going to be a good debate, it's important that we talk the truth about the big picture. It is allowed to put our finger on the challenges we have – we will – but it is equally important to point to the areas where we have actually succeeded. It doesn't help to say that the integration debate is completely unsuccessful, as if we had to start from scratch. It doesn't help anything. The report of the Kaldheim Committee states that policies and instruments have not produced sufficient results, but that both the knowledge base, available statistics and other facts show that integration in Norway is largely successful. This is a fact. That is why I am concerned that the integration debate needs to be more about how we can make policy actions work better – rather than talking down the integration debate all the time. The Christian People's Party believes that the key to good integration lies in civil society. No one is integrated by means of a procedure decision in a Nav office. We absolutely need the expertise that is there, but it is primarily through interpersonal relations, especially based on mutual respect and sincerity, that inclusive friendships can lead to good and dignified integration. Important arenas are meeting places and social communities that include the Nordics and immigrants, for example: the workplace, school, teams and associations. Many non-governmental organisations have a unique competence and a network of which the public should make more use. Many have experience from their original country of origin and also have good knowledge and knowledge of both land, culture and language. In its 2012 alternative government budget, the Christian People's Party has proposed to strengthen this very area. We want to strengthen the grant scheme for the operation of nationwide organisations in the 15-million area of migration. kr, of which 5 million. kr is intended to start a project to introduce refugee guides in all municipalities and 5 million. to incentives to promote diversity in traditional and voluntary organisations. Furthermore, we believe that we need to have an even greater focus on language training, and we have therefore allocated 16 million. kr for language training for illiterates. The party’s representative pointed to this challenge. It is important to follow it up with money as well. Furthermore, we want to spend more money in health stations. We've allocated $40 million. Dr in grants to health centres to provide language-stimulating work among immigrant children, which we consider to be very important. The good integration takes place in civil society, and then we have to bet on those who really can do this. I'm pointing at non-governmental organisations. The MiRA Centre has already been mentioned. Let me also mention Christian intercultural work, KIA. These are two organisations working on grassroots – these are grassroots organisations that can be integrated. I am disappointed that the government does not focus more on the competence of these organisations that can actually integrate. I hope to see a government that is even more offensive in this field, and that we can see more of it when we're going to discuss and debate integration. What do we do with those actors out there who have the unique competence that volunteering actually has?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1574	I want to ask the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold some questions about people who want to be in Norway. Does the representative believe that there are Norwegian authorities to decide who is to stay here, or should people be able to decide for themselves? In the case of persons who are not granted a residence permit, does the representative consider that they are going to return home, or are they to be able to decide on their own initiative to stay in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1579	What we have a great deal of political agreement is that those who come to Norway and apply for a stay must have a reasoned application. That must be because they have a right to protection. If you do not have a right to protection, you should first go home. This is the broad consensus on, and it is also the Christian People's Party's policy in this area. What is more in Håkon Haugli's question than this, he will certainly follow up on. But the starting point for what is likely to be a follow-up must be that at least we agree that those who come to Norway and apply for asylum, those who are entitled to stay, those who are entitled to protection, they will be. If you are not entitled to protection, you should initially leave Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1586	At the request of the representative, Mr Bekkevold, the representative, Mr Haugli, shall take second place. – He'll get that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1590	I am curious about what is contained in the concept of ‘baseline’ used by the representative Bekkevold. I would like to remind you that in March he had an interpellation in which he called for arrangements to ‘regulate’ people who are staying illegally in Norway. In order to ask in a different way: if two persons with similar cases as both are denied their asylum applications, and one takes note of the decision and travels back, while the other becomes illegal in Norway, does the representative believe that it is right that the latter be rewarded after a while for a stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1595	Initially – no. But one of the challenges and the problem is that these are not people who will be a little while longer. If it is the paperless immigrants Håkon Haugli now moving forward, he must be aware that some of these have lived in Norway for very many years, some have lived here for up to 16 years. Then it's not just about staying here a little longer than others. There is a group of undocumented immigrants that Norway cannot return because Norway does not have return agreements. My interpellation in March was about the small group of maybe 3,000 people. What do you do with them? Should we pretend they don't exist here? Should we leave them to the black market? Should we let them go too lye and cold water, or should we think of some kind of regularization? That was my starting point for that interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1600	I record that Bekkewold uses the term ‘paperless’. Now, the situation is that these people aren't without papers, but they don't like what's in the papers. Once again, this term is used as a ‘baseline’ — initially to return home and initially to the decisions taken. Could the representative be so kind as to clarify in what situations it is ok that people do not comply with legal decisions taken by Norwegian authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1605	We all want refugees coming to Norway to comply with the decisions taken by the Norwegian authorities. However, we also get – to Haugli's information – refugees who come here that we cannot force them to return. We don't have any return agreements. And they stay here because they have a subjective fear of their own lives. There is a fear that the Norwegian authorities do not share, and therefore they are refused. But that's one of the reasons why they're going to be. What, then, when we cannot return them? What kind of thoughts does the Workers' Party make about this group that we can't return? I am interested to know – because the only answer I have now received is: return, return, return.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1610	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1613	The left wants Norway to remain and develop as an inclusive society. It is positive that people from different parts of the world come to the country, it contributes to social, economic and cultural development. Immigration and cultural diversity provide opportunities for Norway and are both necessary and natural. Special labour migration will be very much in need of the country's economic development for the years to come. At the same time, I would like to stress that integration is a mutual responsibility and a mutual process that requires respect and demands of all parties. Our national immigration and integration policies must reflect these considerations. With regard to our alternative budget for framework area 6, the Left has several proposals that depart from the government's budget. We propose that the quota for the number of UN transfer refugees be increased in addition to the government's proposals. It is about Norway taking international responsibility for people persecuted in the home country. In the past, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has reported a great need for countries to receive more refugees. In Soria Moria II, the government has stated that the government's aim is to increase the number of quota refugees to at least 1500, that they will increase the number of quota refugees when the number of asylum seekers falls significantly. That is exactly what has been the situation in recent years, but still little has happened to the allowance for transfer refugees. We believe that Norway is able to accept more transfer refugees than the government provides, and proposes to increase the quota from 1200 to 1700 in 2012. Furthermore, the Left will point to the challenges faced by the Foreign Administration in terms of the number of pending cases. There is a broad consensus that the Foreign Affairs Directorate has had too long processing time, and that rapid processing time is important to prevent an uncertain situation from extending in time. For the Left, it is important to point out that when the time of proceedings falls into the UDI, this must also be followed up by focusing on the time of proceedings in the UN and in the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police, so that the whole sequence of proceedings is reduced and that it gives a real effect. In addition, I would like to point out another moment related to the proceedings in the foreign administration. It concerns the level of fees for the examination of applications for citizenship and for work, residence and education permits. In general, the Left considers that public service charges should not be covered by general charges but should cover the real cost of the service. Furthermore, high fees should not be used to charge for the behaviour of which we want more, and this gives a completely wrong signal with high fees to deal with applications for citizenship and work, residence and education permits. We need more people to apply for this, not less. Given that we have a shortage of labour in the coming period, low fees will be one of many measures that will make Norway more attractive to competent foreign workers. That is why we in the Left in our alternative state budget propose to reduce these fees by 25 pst. In the view of the Left, integration policy must also be based more on private initiatives and voluntary action, and we believe it would be right to see integration work in an even stronger context with voluntary policy. Norway has a good public offer for newcomers, but at the same time, others who come to the country also need to learn Norwegian and get better knowledge of Norwegian society. Voluntary organisations can, in our opinion, contribute to this work even more than they do today. Several organisations have very good opportunities to connect and build bridges across cultural differences, targeting immigrants. In this context, I would like to highlight, as others have done, the MiRA Centre, which is working to strengthen the position of minority women in Norway. The MiRA Centre works, among others: to combat coercion and sexual mutilation. That is why, in our alternative budget, we propose to allocate $12 million. kr more than the government of non-governmental organisations involved in integration, including 2 million. kr to the MiRA Centre. Finally, I would like to focus on the importance of integration in all the other areas of society that we are also discussing in this Chamber. As an Oslo representative, I would like to point out that perhaps the most important and most important integration work going on in Norway today is in Oslo School. There's an impressive job done throughout the school to enhance integration. There is also an impressive job in many parts of the city. I would also like to commend the work carried out by the State around Groruddalssatingen, where new measures are being developed in particular within the area programmes established. This is an important work, it must be done continuously, and it must be done within all parts of the public instrument and the social debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1632	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1635	I share the representative's view that there is very much important integration work in Oslo School, but I want to discuss a different relationship. The left has tried in several ways to create the impression that those who oppose a decision taken under the Foreign Affairs Act are paperless and without rights – at the latest in Document 8:69 S for 2010–2011, and again in Document 8:13 S for 2011–2012. My understanding of the concept of ‘paperless’ is that it is an unfortunate concept, as it may be misunderstood to mean that it does not have identity papers or written decisions by Norwegian foreign authorities. A more striking concept that I want to use is ‘returners’. Most returnees in Norway are former asylum seekers who have received a final rejection and obligations to leave the country. Then I find it natural to ask the representative if it should not be in place with a conceptual clarification, also from the Left. Does the Left believe that it is appropriate for asylum seekers to create the impression that, by opposing or neglecting decisions taken under the Foreign Affairs Act, they are to be rewarded or attributed to new rights? And how long might you have to wait before it's okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1644	These are irregular migrants, and there is no doubt that with government policy their situation has deteriorated significantly in recent years. There are several categories. First of all, we are concerned about those who have rightly been refused a stay, but who cannot be returned. They have nowhere to return, even if they want to. They now have no opportunity to work in Norway and are in a desperate situation. Then, of course, we have the category that we cannot send home either, because we do not have agreements with the countries of origin. There we also have to pursue a different policy. In the case of those who have been refused, and who do not go home, but where we have a return agreement, the Left, like other parties, believes that it is the task of the Foreign Affairs Department to get these home as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1651	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1654	First of all, I would like to say that in the integration field, housing, qualification and work are key issues. I'm glad to see that there are issues that are also raised by a broad majority of the Stortinge in the committee's position. We see that a targeted effort over time produces results. Immigrants participate in working and social life, and they are economically self-reliant. Young people with a migrant background take education and participate in political life. We see good results from the majority of those who have migrated to Norway, and we see that the results improve with living in Norway. In other words, the integration policy and the integration process work. Nevertheless, we still have challenges. They consist, for example, of: to close the systematic differences in living conditions between the general population and people with a migrant background. Immigrants as a group have lower employment and higher unemployment. The government is very conscious of the challenges we have, and the areas where we need an extra effort. Fast housing, work and qualification are and will be priority tasks for us. If we are to continue to do this, we are dependent on good knowledge and good resource environments in the integration field. In addition, barriers to participation in professional and social life need to be removed. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the United Kingdom that non-governmental organisations have a lot to contribute to this policy area, as well as to the changes in the way we finance national resource environments, as we have presented in this draft budget. Over the last few years, we have gained a lot of new knowledge in the area of integration. I am thinking in particular of the investigations we received during 2011 from the Inclusion Committee and the Velferds and Migration Committee. I look forward to presenting a Communication on the integration policy for the Grand Duchy next year, in which we will both be able to discuss what new knowledge means for future policy, and future action in Norway, and where I also want to have a wide-ranging debate and a solid anchoring of principles in the facility for what will be Norway's future integration policy. Integration policies are challenging. The debate has changed and changed form several times since the 1970s, when the first immigrants from Pakistan came to Norway. The emergence of online media in the 2000s has created new venues for debate on immigrants and integration. For me, it is important to get a nuanced picture of multicultural Norway. The facts shall characterise the debate. That's because the social debate affects attitudes. The debate on the debate that has received a lot of attention lately is not irrelevant, for which climate we create around the discussion about being a multicultural society is crucial to what attitudes we have to each other, and therefore also to what kind of results we achieve. A debate that is real, that is nuanced, based on facts, that separates myths and group thinking, is a crucial contribution to the success of integration policies and as a multicultural society. That doesn't mean we're going to have a debate where the difficult issues don't come up. On the contrary, I believe that a more factual and nuanced climate around the societal debate can contribute to the fact that it is also easier to discuss the things we do not yet get good at in Norway, in a reliable way. The annual study by the Statistical Centre on attitudes to immigrants and immigration has looked at attitudes before and after the terrorist attack this summer. After 22 July, the positions that were clarified are more positive for immigrants. These changes are most evident in the responses to a claim that immigrants are a source of social insecurity. Before the acts of terror, 48 pst said. disagree with this claim. After July 22, 70 was pst. disagreement that immigrants are a source of insecurity. We must take that with us and use it to build the community that we want the Norwegian society to be – to build the new ‘we’ that very many have said they want in future Norway. Norway is and will be a diverse society, a society in which we can take care of differences, while building a strong community based on some common values. The government's draft budget is a contribution to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1676	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1679	I am pleased that the Council of States now has a focus on what is involved in integration, which is the most important challenge we face. The Council of State also said that we should also address the difficult issues. One of the difficult issues in terms of integration is coerciveness and gender mutilation. Now the Council of State presented an action plan a week ago, covering the two areas. There were many points in that action plan. Some of them were good, and some of them might not have been that good. Much of it goes on conversations and dialogues, including: with countries facing challenges in these two areas. What concrete measures will the Council of State take to prevent the continuation of forced marriages and sexual mutilation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1686	Both coercion and sexual mutilation involve human rights violations, serious violations of Norwegian law and serious abuses against individuals. That's why we're going to continue our work until it doesn't happen in Norway. We have recently presented new action plans for 2012 related to both of these challenges. We have now decided to extend this work by one year, precisely to use 2012 to add a broader strategy. I think we need a review of both what has worked, and what has not worked, in order to get an even better job in the future. But I'm very proud of much of what's in the action plan, not least the efforts of minority advisors, who are doing an incredibly good job in schools, and who are now going to have the opportunity to work in high school. I am then a little surprised that the Progress Party in its budget is proposing to close the IMFI, which is responsible for several of the main actions of the Action Plan, including: The minority advisors, who prevent coerciveness and social control in our schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1695	This government did a little untraditional and exciting action when they shared immigration policy and integration policy. State Council Faremo is responsible for immigration policy and the Lighthouse for integration policy. In the last year, there has been a lot of focus on a group that has also been mentioned here, namely those I would call illegal immigrants, who avoid returning to their homeland. Promotion campaigns have been launched by organisations with the support of the PR agency for the so-called paperless. State Secretary Lønseth of the Ministry of Justice is now consistently using the term ‘returners’. I wonder if this is the government's official concept, and whether it is such that the Council of State Lightbaking also prefers to use the term'return negotiators' about those who refuse to return to their homeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1704	I came back from Geneva yesterday. I have been there for two days during the 60th anniversary of the Refugee Convention and have had interesting conversations with colleagues from a number of countries, among others. in the case of practices against paperless and unreturnable. There are different practices in many countries, linked, for example, to: the right to work. I believe that the debate will have to take place in Norway to a greater extent in the future. It is important that we distinguish between different groups in this debate. Some people have been denied, they can return to their country, and they must and must do so. But there are also groups where our own policies prevent the return, among other things. because we are committed to following the advice of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. That is what this debate is all about. I think it's important that we look at different ways of meeting the challenges in different groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1711	I would like to follow this theme, because we have had paperless immigrants in Norway who have been allowed to work, among others. Ethiopian refugees who have lived here over time. From 1 January, they were deprived of the opportunity to work. Here we're not talking about three months' notice, this happened on the day. These are also people who actually got start-up loans in some municipalities. Does what the Council of State now says, and with the experience he now has back from Geneva, mean that this is something he will look at and consider changing, so that those who cannot be returned can have a somewhat more worthwhile life by having the opportunity to work, contribute to the community and support themselves in the time they are here?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1716	The question of work permit is not my department, but I have said on several occasions that the discussion about the people who are in our society for a short or longer time, and who for various reasons are not returned to their country of origin, is also an important discussion of integration policy. These include: important that we avoid that it contributes to the development of a black labour market. It is also something that several of my colleagues in other countries brought up with me, and of course the government is also discussing. Here we need to find a wise balance between what we should also have, namely having a policy that encourages the return of people to be returned, who do not have the basis for refugee status. I don't think any parties in Stortinget disagree with that. Then we have to look at how we can best solve the situation for people who stay in the country for different reasons over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1721	Words are important in the political debate, and I notice that they have now become the returnees, those who were previously paperless. I am very pleased that the Council of States is now very clear that the debate must distinguish between those who are referred to as returnees, and those who are not, and who cannot, in fact, return. I just want to ask a little bit more in the extension of the previous question: can the Council of State be a little more clear on how to actually continue working with exactly the group that really cannot be returned, compared to those who have the opportunity to have a more regular stay in Norway, with a temporary residence permit and with the possibility of working? Such a situation is now, the problems of these people – they are in a desperate personal situation – or then the problems with them are pushed over to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1728	I think it's important to separate these discussions. I think it's important to discuss how we handle those people that we can't return in the best possible way for different reasons. So the concrete measures in this area are a department other than mine to discuss. The recent debate in the wake of the cold water debate in Norway. by several municipal government decisions to which many parties have participated in this Chamber, is a necessary debate for several parties to take, and for the government to take, and then the time to show what action we are going to take. There I think we have a lot to learn from the practices of different countries. We need to strike a good balance between integration and the reasons we need to take to avoid people who do not meet the requirements set by the Refugee Convention remaining in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1735	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1738	Work until all are jobs. one for the Workers' Party. This has always been our most important thing. In the international economic crisis we are in, it is vital to keep unemployment low. We want to make working life more inclusive and humane. In the Workers' Party, we believe that work is a suitable inclusion tool. Having a paid job means that people can support themselves, that means entering the Norwegian society through the labour market, and that means getting a few colleagues. So a workplace is a natural inclusion and socialization arena. But it is not easy to come as a foreigner at a Norwegian workplace. For many workers from other countries, language is a challenge. Controlling Norwegian is a prerequisite for being included in Norwegian society and for understanding society at all. Thus, a job is a practical approach to language and provides an opportunity to learn work-related languages, which can also be an input to further language development and understanding. We know that we need labour in Norway. Some sectors do not go around without non-resident labour. It is important that we take on board ourselves and recognise the need for labour immigration and the important and necessary work that many people do. As a Finnish mark, raised and resident in the fishing community of Havøysund, I know that the fishing industry in many places in Norway depends on its foreign labour force. In Havøysund, we don't have asylum seekers or ordinary refugees, but we have many examples of non-ethnic Northmen who help our society to move around, and that the export value of Norwegian fishing industry is as high as it is. Coastal fishing nets have always been characterised by high mobility and labour exchange. Therefore, they are also more marked by hospitality than suspicion. We're just used to strangers. For me, it is gratifying to see that the workers at my home are more and more involved in social and cultural life, in different parties, buying houses and establishing themselves and becoming new coastal residents, even though they are born in a place where the north wind does not take as hard as it is with us. I don't want to paint anything, but I think I can say that we have minimal conflicts between ethnic Nordics and foreigners, and that the reason is that community in work and residence helps to glue together, not distinguish between them and us. I believe that a key step to succeed in integration is to keep unemployment down and employment high combined with the ability to learn Norwegian. In this way, we can also make better use of the skills of immigrants. I want jobseekers in Norway to feel wanted and welcome, be properly treated and participate in Norwegian social life to enrich it and improve it. Much indicates that the immigrant in Bygde-Norway is better integrated than the immigrant. A publication published at the University of Bergen from 2010 entitled ‘Most immigrants in Norway are not Muslims, nor do they live in Oslo. Who would have thought that?" substantiated this perception. Maybe the answer to this is so simple that in District Norway we're so few that we can't avoid seeing each other and getting to know each other. It is also very important for asylum seekers who receive refugee status and stay in Norway to get to work or education quickly. Participation in different fields of society binds people together, gives them a common position and an opportunity to be taken beyond ethnic dividing lines. Work builds the country, but also builds community and cooperation across ethnic dividing lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1767	I fully agree with the point made in previous speeches that a well-functioning labour market may also be the most important integration area for people who come here at adult age to work. In the next generation, which has a different cultural background, the school is the most important integration arena, some of which have also been in. But then we have to try to separate. We must have a refugee policy based on the individual's need for protection. There is a slightly different issue than the Norwegian society’s need for labour. A little rough can be said that labour immigration will be dictated by our own labour market and our need to increase our labour force by means of immigration from abroad, and it can be said that it is for Norway's sake, while refugee policy is for those who need protection. Then I would say that for those who come here and seek protection in Norway – our safe area in the world – it does not matter which policy we take to integrate them. They are not integrated if we offer them schemes that mean that they accept sustainable customer roles under state control. Then they won't make it. Therefore, attention should be paid to general instruments, which do not differ so much from those applicable to other jobseekers in Norway. Groups should not be favoured, as we also need to be able to defend these schemes against Norwegian jobseekers. I noticed that the Council of State pointed out that in the immigrant group there was social inequality. Yes, it will always be. We must never get there that an immigrant group to be confused resembles a random sample group of Norwegian society. The aim of the policy is that there will be no lasting differences that will prevent you from working towards prosperity once you have come to the country. But initially it has to be that you have to deal with less, and that you can't expect all the arrangements and all the doors to be opened, and that you have to have preference over better qualified in a competitive situation – it won't be fair to those who lose such a competition and are actually better qualified. I very much agree with the Council of State that it was also about building barriers. It can also be assumed that there are completely inappropriate barriers to employment, where employers do not realize that there are good and competent workers available. It may be that we need to facilitate the approval of education that you have taken in your home country. I would also like to point out that we have a somewhat different attitude as we do not imagine that these new groups should be employed in the state, but in the ordinary working life. So it's also very important that we plan down the thresholds of general working life. In fact, employers decide who they take the chance on in the company. Then it is also important to have a flexible working life, where it is absolutely essential that you have probationary periods, temporary employment, part-time and then you get to know him. It's actually our position that as people get better acquainted, they can bet more on the workforce that they would not initially employ if all the ideal demands for fixed employment, no flexibility and no probationary period were to strike from day one. Here we disagree, but here again I believe that the right has the best means of job integration if you are also willing to make working life more flexible. Finally, I would also like to say that there would have been a gain in this debate if we now decided to say that we have paperless – that word we can still use well about people who have been denied papers by their home authorities. But if you don't shed light on your own identity and refuse to go home, you're a returnee. It's actually a good expression, which I see Secretary of State Lønseth uses fairly consistently. I also think that the State Council Lighthouse could be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1784	The draft budget for immigration reflects that the government will continue to pursue a comprehensive, consistent and fair asylum policy. We will shorten the processing time in the foreign administration. It is important that those who have an application for treatment do not put their lives on hold, but get clarification as soon as possible. The return of persons without a legal stay is still a high priority. The government prioritises measures to improve the efficiency of the overall foreign management and service. The development of common ICT solutions for the whole of the foreign administration – the so-called Effect Programme – is an important priority within the budget. This investment programme shall be mainly implemented during 2012. The draft budget for next year is based on a forecast of 11 000 asylum seekers. Since the submission of the budget, the forecast has fallen to 10000. From the point of view of the European countries with which we are often compared, Norway now receives a low proportion of asylum seekers without a need for protection. This shows that the government's restrictive measures in the field of asylum have been effective. There is still a high number of untreated cases of residence and asylum in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and the Study of Foreign Affairs. If the adjusted forecast is successful, it should allow for some reduction in the number of pending cases in 2012 in the UDI. I notice that the committee proposes to set of 3 million. kr of UDI’s operating budget for an au pairs information service. I have a great deal of understanding of the Committee's proposals. Despite low arrival forecasts, we must remember that the situation in the Mediterranean region, both within and outside Europe, is uncertain in many ways. We cannot ignore the fact that in 2012 we have to deal with more new groups of asylum seekers and refugees, and challenges resulting from the movement of third-country nationals living in Spain, for example, northwards. There are therefore several reasons to ask questions about realism in the alternative budget of the Progress Party where a key prerequisite is a significant decrease in the number of asylum seekers next year. The government is following developments closely. We will also keep under review any new measures to reduce the arrival of asylum seekers without the need for protection. Lone minor asylum seekers are a particularly vulnerable group. The Government aims to establish a representative scheme for lone minor asylum seekers as of 1 July 2013, in order to replace the current organisation of the war. The representative scheme will strengthen their legal position. Until the entry into force of the new scheme, we propose to strengthen the existing scheme and increase the current grant by NOK 3000 per person needing it, giving room for increased access to interpreters and more contact between the guardian and the single minor. Return of persons without lawful residence is a demanding part of the foreign field. The government has strengthened efforts to motivate voluntary return significantly in recent years. I am pleased that many asylum seekers with a refusal accept offers of assisted voluntary return to their country of origin. The number increased by approx. 230 pst. Between 2006 and 2010, 1 400 of them returned in this way. As far as this year, over 1,700 people have already returned voluntarily with assistance from the International Organization for Migration. The government will continue its efforts for assisted voluntary return next year. The government attaches great importance to practical cooperation with the country of origin on return. Norway now has return agreements with 28 countries, and efforts to reach agreements with several countries continue with undiminished force in 2012. I would like to stress that the police's efforts to carry out forced repatriation are also of great importance. Staying in Norway without a residence basis is thus not being premiered. In 2012, the government increased the appropriation for shipments by 24 million. kr. Finally, I would like to point out that a government-appointed sample has assessed the organisation of appeal proceedings in the foreign field. The investigation has recently been at public consultation. I will come back to Stortinget with a billing proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1813	The councils were involved in forced return, and forced return is the responsibility of the Police Foreign Unit. It is the case that police pensioners are largely used to carry out this job. That seems to me to be positive. It has two good, positive effects. One is that it is a little more reasonable to use police pensioners, and the other is that police pensioners are older people with great integrity. In some of the societies from which those to be forced returnees come, older people have a great deal of respect, and pensioners thus contribute to facilitating the transport of persons. Will the Council of State continue, possibly extending, the use of pensioners for transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1820	Forced return is a central area in the implementation of Norwegian asylum policy. However, I am not yet well acquainted with how the police have organized this activity. The important thing is that this is well implemented, that it is resource-efficient and also takes care of legal certainty and security around the return, as foreseen by the legislator.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1825	I am pleased that the Council of State is continuing the clear commitment to contributing to the increased return of illegal immigrants, people without a residence permit and who have finally received a rejection of their applications. I can challenge the Council of State to see if she shares the concept that Secretary of State Lønneth has, that is, to call them ‘returners’. But there's something else I could really imagine asking. In this debate — and constantly away — it is claimed that there are several thousand people in Norway who are unreturnable, who cannot be returned. Does the Council of State have an overview of whether there are several thousand in this category, or are there simply people who refuse to return voluntarily, we are talking about in this context, and who have then been assessed by their foreign authorities to the point that it is safe for them to return to their home country, but who still refuse to travel?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1832	I think there are few areas of policy where the facts are as essential as in the foreign field, and the foreign authorities treat strong individual associations every day. So it's absolutely central to solid procedural requirements, to individual treatment and to high demands for legal certainty at all stages. It is a fundamental condition that the person who has been rejected be returned on a voluntary basis. There are therefore some returnees among asylum seekers who have been refused residence in Norway. And when we talk about paperless, we're dealing with people who, on the one hand, have a lot of papers, papers that might not contain the text they would like to see contained.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1839	I want to address a question related to the maintenance requirement. It was introduced in the Bondevik II government, and the idea was that this should be part of the fight against coercion. Now it turns out, unfortunately, that the demand for entertainment is very quirky. It affects people who are clearly not the victims of forced marriage. I'll give you a little example. A Norwegian woman in the mid-20s married an peers from Canada. Everything was happy and old, until the answer came from UDI. It turned out that she had earned NOK 986 too little in 2010 that she could be united with her husband and he could come and live in Norway. As a result, this man had to return to Canada. There are several such unfair terms. This means that we need to be able to talk about the need for the foreign administration to take reasonable account. Will the State Council provide that tool to the Foreign Administration so that they can take reasonable account of such unreasonable cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1848	Both the Foreign Affairs Act and the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act impose requirements that must be met in order to be able to stay in Norway. You can discuss whether these requirements are to look like a gate, a door or a loop. It's a delimited good, and it has to be treated then. I have no comments on the individual matter to which the representative refers. I am aware that the discussion about maintenance requirements is a very demanding discussion, and this is why conditions have to be followed carefully. We will certainly come back to this on a general basis, but the simple matter to which it refers is not a basis for me to say from this very point of view that it provides the basis for coming back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1855	I'll follow up on previous questions. No matter how many people have been denied their asylum application, I wonder how many people really cannot be returned – because there is no country of destination, or because there are countries that do not want to take them back. No matter how many these are, does the Council of State agree that they should have the opportunity to stay and to have temporary residence in Norway until they can return home?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1863	As regards the starting point of the work permit, it is based on the fact that asylum seekers who have been finally refused their asylum application and thus do not have a need for protection have an obligation to leave Norway and therefore, as a general rule, are not granted a simultaneous right to work in Norway. It is easy to understand, on the grounds of the entire asylum institution, how this could help to weaken not only the institution of asylum but also the entire work on return. There is a narrow regulatory opening so that an asylum seeker can nevertheless obtain a temporary work permit. I'm sure the questioner is familiar with that. But the focus on the general rule is the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1870	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1873	This has been a good debate, but, as in many other debates on immigration, it is possible to get a wrong idea of who the immigrants in Norway are. I would therefore like to start by reminding you that in 2010 65 000 foreign nationals migrated to Norway. At the same time, approx. Twenty-two thousand. Net immigration was about 43 000, and it represents a weak increase from 2009, but is lower than in 2008. The vast majority come from Europe: 64 pst. from EU countries; most from Poland, then from Lithuania and from Sweden. I think the representative Tetzschner had a good point – most immigrants come here because it is in our interest that they do. Norway is totally dependent on immigrants. There are over 100,000 foreign nationals working in Norway. In Oslo, every third employee in the care sector has a migrant background. For many reasons – both good and bad – asylum policy is given the most attention. After hearing several of the previous posts, I need to say a little about it. A lot has happened in this area in recent years. I want to bring forward some important things that the government has done, which in total help to secure the asylum institution. The Minister of Justice just said in his speech that it is important that those with an asylum application for treatment do not put their lives on hold. The case-handling time in the UDI has halved since 2010. There are still some pending applications for consideration there, but today's draft budget allows for further reductions in the duration of the procedure. Return work has a high priority. It is important for the credibility and openness of the asylum institution that those entitled to protection are allowed to stay in Norway. But it's just as important that those who get rejected return. Legal decisions taken by the Norwegian authorities shall be complied with. The government has increased support for voluntary return in recent years. At the same time, the work on forced repatriation has been strengthened. As a result, from 2009 to 2010, we had a 40 pst. increase in both voluntary and involuntary returns. So far this year, 1 700 people have returned voluntarily. It's 300 more than last year. The Right Party and the Advance Party are today united on a proposal to ask the Government ‘put in place several return options to allow groundless asylum seekers to be returned’. This is kicking in open doors. Today, Norway has readmission agreements with 28 countries, and more are being worked on. Since 2005, when the Right is in government, the number of return agreements has tripled. Until 31 October this year, 7 651 asylum seekers arrived in Norway. That's 8 pst. less than in the same period in 2010. At the same time as the numbers go down, the acceptance rate goes up. That's good. This suggests that the baseless applications are going down. From the point of view of the European countries with which we are often compared, Norway now receives a low proportion of asylum seekers without a need for protection. Policy aims to give it to those who need protection. Earlier this year, the representative Lise Christoffersen and I visited the asylum reception for lone minor asylum seekers at Hvalstad, Asker. Lone minor asylum seekers are a very vulnerable group. Many have been on the run for a long time and taken a great deal of risk. I am very pleased that the government is now aiming to put in place a representation scheme for lone minors from 1 July 2013. It provides a vulnerable group with increased legal certainty. The government is pursuing a consistent and fair asylum policy. In order to avoid that Norway, in relation to the population, does not receive a disproportionate proportion of asylum seekers coming to Europe, it is important that our policies do not appear to be substantially more liberal than those of other Western countries. But we're not going to have the opposite situation either. Norway shall take its part in the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1904	Norway is the society of opportunity. Our country is rich in natural resources, manages large profits and lies in a peaceful part of the world. But after all, it is the people who are Norway's future. Norway is never better than the sum of its inhabitants. The contribution of each individual has a bearing on our success as a society. That is why it is also a key policy task to facilitate everyone's success, to ensure that society provides security, responsibility, rights and opportunities for development for all. Social democracy is based on the equivalency of all people and on the solidarity between people as a bearer to solve tasks and meet the challenges of society. Norway is not a monocultural society, and has never been. The story of the bottom-solid, urnorphic homogenous culture is not a true story, it's an adventure. The Sami people have been in the areas covered by the nation of Norway for impending times. As a coastal nation, Norway has had a significant migration of e.g. Danes, Englishmen and Germans, and not least, migrations across the borders of Sweden have always taken place. All of these groups have brought with them their cultural expressions, customs, dishes, norms and traditions. Many of these traditions have also become part of what is now regarded as Norwegian, and it is changing all the time. We're constantly discussing new traditions and new expressions. For example, the tradition of Halloween is getting bigger and bigger in Norway, a practice that was not particularly widespread just a few years ago. We've actually stuck to the customs of Christmas in the summer – perhaps it's been more widespread in some parts of the country. In the public vocabulary it is as an unexplained premise that foreigners coming to Norway will become Norwegians. The question is, of course, what is it to be Norwegian? Or another way to say, what is it to be enough Norwegian? The point is that such categorisation of people based on group membership does not lead to a constructive debate. Instead, it contributes to a debate where we are concerned about identifying differences between people in order to be able to place them in some category. It contributes to a thought where we are busy identifying ‘us’, unlike — or to distinguish ourselves from — ‘the others’. For Northerners it was difficult to get shelter in Oslo in the 1970s, because they were northerners. As a result, many added their dialect to cover where they really came from, and thus they could get shelter. Today we flirt of it and think it's a little funny. But do we really think that was okay? Today Muhammad does not experience being called to an interview because his name is Mohammed. Do we think that's okay? If the idea is that those who immigrate to Norway will become Norwegian, it will implicitly follow that they will change from something they are, to something else, from being Iraqis, Kurds, Muslims or Swedish to becoming Norwegian. An interesting question then is whether they must stop being Iraqis, Kurds, Muslims or Swedes. Or to turn it upside down: if I married a Pakistani and lived a life with many customs, traditions and values from Pakistan with my family, was I no longer Norwegian? However, it may be important for minorities to cultivate their cultural characteristics. Most people ask themselves the question at some point: Who am I? Often a large part of the answer will depend on which group you experience belonging to. In this way, Norwegian Americans can serve as an example. They can be seen to be more Norwegian than any Northman in his glory and the use of Lucekofts, bouquets and dishes, so there are four or five generations of immigrants to the United States. Recently I saw a TV show in which Norwegian Americans met weekly to eat lute fish. I still have the pleasure of meeting a Northman who actually does. But we still perceive Norwegian Americans as Americans – don't we? But if you ask the Norwegian Americans in the fourth or fifth generation, they'll still say, yeah, we're Americans, but we're Norwegian too. For the majority of the population in Norway, it is not a threat that groups of people have their cultural characteristics. Of course, the framework for anyone living in Norway is Norwegian law. On the other hand, it is a threat to society if the majority population excludes groups by focusing on the differences between them and us. This will lead to social unrest and strong contradictions. There are many examples throughout the history that that kind of contradiction also leads to violent contradictions. The goal is integration and inclusion, not assimilation. For the Workers' Party, diversity is a strength for creativity, for the exchange of experiences and contacts with other countries and cultures. It is the diversity that makes it possible for individuals themselves to choose how they will live their lives. Young people who grow up in a more diverse and multicultural Norway can face the world with greater experience and mastery. Against this background, I therefore welcome the big message about the integration and inclusion policy that the government in the state budget will announce in the spring of 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1925	There are few members, but I hope that doesn't mean that the debate is boring. It's late Friday, and people might want a weekend. Participation in many fields is necessary if people are to be integrated into Norwegian society. The working party sees shortages as a resource. We believe that integration requires active follow-up – and demands – in a rough way. Qualification and work have our central priorities. Fast construction is important. That is why we have strengthened the commitment to integration. The IMDi has also received additional funds for the construction work. Work should be streamlined, and we aim to have a new and faster deployment scheme for refugees in place from 2013. In addition, the government has granted funds to the House Bank to meet the challenges of finding sufficient housing for construction. The government has made changes to the law of introduction and the Civil Code. This includes: decide to extend the right and obligation to Norwegian training from 300 to 600 hours and to extend the scope of the introduction programme. Compulsory tests in Norwegian and social sciences will be held in the school year 2013. In addition, it is agreed that the State should supervise the administration of the Introduction Act by municipalities and that local authorities should be subject to internal control. We have also transformed the training scheme in Norwegian and social skills into payments over three years, so that municipalities receive funding when they actually have expenditure on training, and not over five years as before. Language is the key to understanding and participating in Norwegian society. So we want more children in kindergarten, including to make it possible for both parents to be at work. These are important integration measures. Recipient dwellers are also given the opportunity to work in voluntary organisations. The party's contribution to the integration debate has been a great deal to count proposals they have made in the past. It's a little exciting. Not all of the Progress Party is proposing is wrong, but while we're giving rights and then making demands, the Progress Party makes demands and cuts in actions that work. They place responsibility for integration on the individual immigrant. We mean, on the other hand, that this is a two-way process. Life is not only lived on a Norwegian course. Participation in society in many fields is necessary to be closed down by integration. An own big message about inclusion in cultural life is on the steps and takes examples of how inclusion in cultural life can contribute to participation and real integration into society. The question is not whether we become a more diverse society. It'll be Norway and most other countries. The question is, are we able to exploit the deficiency to become a strength and a competitive advantage?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1951	I want to return a little bit to Siv Jensen's wish to close Oslo's urban border for immigrants. I'll approximate it with some facts. Today's News in Sweden has had an interesting series of articles lately. One of the headlines was: Without immigrants Sweden stops. This was followed by an overview of different sectors — health, care for the elderly, the hotel and restaurant industries and the transport sector. Every four Swedish doctors are born outside the Nordic region. Behind the steering wheel in buses and taxis are people with high school education. That shows a little bit of a different side. On the one hand, it is a question of discrimination, and on the other hand, of problems in obtaining recognition from abroad. In the folklore in Hallunda, more than half of the dentists come from Baghdad, but the way there has been crooked. Although the curriculum list and practice were almost identical, it was very difficult to get the education approved in Sweden. And on the other hand, statistics show a balance of immigrants among poor social welfare recipients. Swedish experience might as well have been a description from Norway. The number from the SSB shows that immigrants are 13 pst. by all employed persons in Norway – 12,2 pst. by the population. But they are strongly overrepresented in purity, both men and women. The same is true of accommodation and catering activities. Immigrant women are strongly overrepresented in education, health and social services. Immigrants are under-represented in finance and insurance, education, health and social services, public administration, but over-represented in primary industries, industry, construction, construction and transport. From 2002 to 2010, the proportion of immigrants from established enterprises among personally owned enterprises has increased from 11 pst. to 18.7 pst. - also here an overrepresentation. In accommodation and food service activities 56 pst. by the establishments, one third in the construction sector, and 24 pst. by establishment in transport and storage. Some of these are people who were tired of meeting closed doors in Norwegian working life, or who were unable to get their education in Norway. And here too, immigrants and their children are overrepresented among the poor just like in Sweden. In other words, there is probably full coverage for the same claim here as in Sweden: No immigrants stop Norway. If everyone just disappeared all of a sudden, many of us would have trouble getting to work. Some of our planned Christmas graduations, or courses and seminars, probably had to be cancelled, the hospital queues would probably grow – and what about the hospitals? So in the same way as in the Nordics' attitudes, the actual picture of what immigrants mean for important Norwegian social functions, often under-communicated, and the debate is more problem-focused than it is the basis for. Someone wants it to stay like this. We have to point that out to the others. Finally, «Pools of their hens» come from Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1962	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1970	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e1978	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-5, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right-wing proposals No. 6-19, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 20, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 21-23, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 24, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities receive adequate compensation for expenditure on resource-intensive services in the context of the revised national budget for 2012.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e2014	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the right. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of the procedures for the forwarding and follow-up to the State Attorney of criminal offences resulting from the proceedings and the asylum interview in UDI and UNE.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal that the language mapping system of four-year-olds be continued and applied throughout the country.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e2038	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish an instruction authority for the government towards UNE on issues of principle, similar to the arrangement existing against UDI.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e2053	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the rules on day-to-day pay so that non-residents who receive a daily allowance do not lose them if they start with Norwegian training.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e2070	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-19, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to repeal the Act on Supplementary Social Security for Short Butide Persons in Norway.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals involving equal treatment of the municipalities in the action zone.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals for the liquidation of county offices and to replace these posts by a separate administrative court.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of all building and property assets for sale and to make proposals in relation to the revised national budget for 2012 for the sale of state properties for 4 billion. crowns in 2012.’» Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government asks the Government to separate and sell State Consultant from the Directorate for Administration and ICT as a separate company.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks for a revision of the Financial Assistance Regulation for persons in receipt of State aid so that benefits cannot be provided until the applicant has contributed to the identification of the authorities.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer a case to the Stortinget for the closure of the Foreign Office, where responsibility for the review procedure is transferred to the Ministry of Justice.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to start winding up the Competence Centre for Regional Development in 2012’.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to close the Directorate for Integration and Diversity and to transfer its tasks to the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government, at the latest, in the context of the revised national budget for 2012, to submit proposals for the launch of mandatory health control in the context of the 4-year control, in order to detect the gender impact of children from land and land where there is a risk of such abuse.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the Contact Committee between immigrants and the authorities be closed from 1 January 2012.’» [[KIM]] Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to dissolve the fund of the state-funded Same People’s Fund and to return the money to donors unabated.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to terminate the Competence Centre for the Rights of the Aborigines’. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to dissolve the State-funded Romani Fund and return the money to the donors unabated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e2154	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 5 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more return agreements to be put in place to enable groundless asylum seekers to be returned.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider turning the aid over the cap. 821 entry 71 from migrant organisations based on country of origin and ethnicity of non-governmental organisations working in integration work in local environments. The Ministry must carry out checks on the resources allocated.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e2178	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess whether, and how, return agreements may be included in aid agreements with the country concerned.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to close the House Lease Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e2200	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that private schools are given the opportunity to apply for funds from the interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings on equal terms with the public school.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e10678	The President expects the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e10706	Christian People's Party supports the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-09.ana.ud718e10727	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
