ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e35	Honourable co-representatives! Former PD Magnar Gunnbjørn Huseby passed away on July 2nd – 82 years old. He was born on 14 December 1928 in Åsen, North Trøndelag. After his education, which was a graduated artium, apprenticeship practice and electroline, he began as a technician at Trondheim E-work and had his job here until 1979. In the 1960s, Huseby engaged in politics and had a number of responsibilities, including: as Chairman of the Circuit Association and as member of the board of Trondheim Right. He was a member of Trondheim Municipal Government from 1967 to 1983. He was a member of the Presidency, and he was a municipal councillor. He also had a number of responsibilities in municipal selections and committees. He was the 1st alternate to the Stortinget from Süd-Trøndelag in the period 1977-1981. In the 1981 elections he became a permanent representative and was re-elected in 1985. In both periods he was a member of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee. Huseby came on his proper shelf in this committee, such as: had regional, environmental and housing policies as key tasks. These were areas that were close to his heart. He quickly became a central spokesman on housing policy issues – an area that was politically important under the government of Willoch. In the years 1986–88, Huseby led the Higher Higher Education Survey. He was also elected Secretary of the Lamentations. After he left the Stortinget in 1989, Huseby was project manager and chief engineer at the Umweltpakket Trondheim until 1994. The pensioner's life did not put an end to his great social interest, and he engaged in the Pensioner's League, in the Elder's Council in Trondheim, and as a member of the State's Elder's Council. Huseby had strong opinions, and he did not fail to say from if there was something he disagreed with. He was a good and conscientious representative of the electoral district and party – combined with a large portion of real tranny humor and indulgence. We remember Magnar G. Huseby for his work in the Storting and shine peace upon his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e54	Representatives Åse Michaelsen, Sylvi Graham, Lise Christoffersen, Anette Trettebergstien, Karin Andersen, Karin S. Woldseth, Øyvind Waksdal, Geir Pollestad, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Susanne Bratli, Irene Johansen and Ingjerd Schou, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Willy Pedersen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e116	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 145]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e134	The background to this interpellation is a desire for Norway to become the first slave-free country in the world. It's about the release of people trapped in slavery. The question is, how do we do ours to make modern slavery a story? Since the first action plan against trafficking in human beings was drawn up by the Bondevik Government in 2003, the Norwegian authorities have continuously assessed and adjusted the measures taken to counter trafficking in human beings and to help its victims. It is good that the government has now followed up with a new and updated plan. The message remains that the government will fight against all forms of trafficking in human beings, nationally and internationally. I would like to pay tribute and recognition to the government for continuing and strengthening its efforts in this area, as expressed in the 2012 State Budget. There are two important proposals from the Government: to amend the Child Protection Act to allow for forcing children to be placed for up to six months in cases where trafficking in human beings is suspected, and to strengthen the appropriations significantly in order to make adapted institutional provision for children. That's very good. At the same time, we must state that trafficking in human beings is the slavery of our time. One of my objectives with this debate is that we should start using that term, call the phenomenon by its proper name. We need more knowledge, more awareness, more initiative and more priority from the Norwegian authorities. The unsolved problems are huge. The extent of human trafficking is increasing, and few of the victims get the help they need. We have to do more, so that modern slavery becomes history in our time. Trafficking in human beings is the exploitation of children, women and men to carry out work and services through the use of violence, threats and other control mechanisms. People are treated as goods that can be purchased and sold for work. In Norway, trafficking in human beings is defined in Section 224 of the Criminal Act, which prohibits trafficking in human beings. But I think we have to start talking about human trafficking as slavery of our time, both because it's actually slavery we're talking about, and because the concept of slavery in a better way than human trafficking focuses on the situation of those who are involved. Trafficking in human beings really only describes part of the problem. When we talk about trafficking in human beings, the focus is on cross-border trade, but it is not, in fact, just where the problem lies. The big problem lies in the very slavery and the gross exploitation of people. Many think that slavery was made history once in the 1800s. According to the International Anti-Slavy Organization, Free the Slaves, the truth is that there are more than 27 million people living in slavery in the world today. These are people who are trapped and who, against their own will, are forced to work – without payment and without the possibility of just walking away. This is – now, while we are living – more than all those who were sacrificed for the transatlantic slave trade, which lasted 350 years. This is the reality, despite the fact that slavery is today banned in all countries of the world. We know that children are held as sex slaves in Cambodia, as child soldiers in Uganda. We know that people live in forced labour in India, who prostituted in Moldova and as house slaves in France. We know that women, young people and minorities are particularly vulnerable. Rome is among the most vulnerable to trafficking in human beings in Europe. We know that trafficking in human beings is also taking place in Norway. Children, women and men are exploited for forced labour, prostitution, begging and crime — even in our own country. A short time ago, two Lithuanian men in Bergen were sentenced to four and a half years in prison for gross human trafficking. The Court has condemned them to exploit several minors, all of them from alcoholized and dissolved homes in the same city in Lithuania. They were lured on trips to Norway. They were exploited for criminal acts. According to the judgment, the children were without close care in Norway. They didn't have money for food or other things. They had no return ticket to Lithuania, they had poor hygiene conditions and washed in gas stations. This is the first time that people have been convicted of trafficking in human beings by exploiting minors for profit crime in Norway. Slavery is not something that affects only poor people in developing countries. It's about poverty and the desire for a better future, the desire for a job, about vulnerable people whose needs and dreams are exploited by profit-seeking bandits. It's about coercion, violence, mental links, threats and oppression. But it is also about lack of legal certainty and enforcement of law and law, corruption, lack of knowledge and awareness at the level of authority — and in the public and among the most ‘people’. According to Tina Davis, an activist, writer and filmmaker, one of the main obstacles to a slave-free world is the lack of consciousness: it is ignorance of slavery in our own backyards that allows the existence of slavery. She stresses that when consciousness and knowledge spread, and when individual cases are revealed in the public, then the goal of a slave-free world can be achieved, then freedom for all can be guaranteed. So the situation is far from hopeless. There are concrete solutions to stop slavery. All over the world, brave people work to free and help slaves. Authorities are starting to wake up and take action, and unlike in other periods of history, the global economy is not dependent on slave labor. Trafficking in human beings is a billion-dollar industry that, according to the United Nations, has gone through drug trafficking as the world's second-largest illegal economy. But this is, after all, only a small part of the global economy, and there is a broad moral consensus that slavery is unacceptable. Slavery is illegal in all the countries of the world, and many necessary mechanisms to prevent slavery are in place. That means that the goal of a slave-free world is actually a realistic goal. We can guarantee freedom for everyone. That's hope. I ask the question in the interview: What can we do as individuals, in our communities and at authority level, to contribute to the fight against trafficking in human beings? I look forward to hearing the Minister of Justice's answers and views. This fight is, of course, largely about measures that the government has taken, will implement and can implement. I want to mention the Sex Purchases Act here in particular. It's a fact that the Storting has decided that buying sex is a criminal act. That law has a very important meaning – it has a criminal significance, and it has an important symbolic significance. However, the criminalisation of the purchase of sexual services is only one of several measures to combat prostitution and trafficking in human beings, but it is a significant contribution to preventing the recruitment of customers. And not least, the law marks an attitude on the part of society: it's unacceptable to buy another person. It's all about taking care of the human world at last. But the fight against trafficking in human beings is not just about laws and authority measures. The struggle is also about what we individuals do. Some good advice from anti-slavery organizations is that we need to acquire more knowledge to expose modern slavery and spread awareness of this in our communities. We can support organizations working against slavery. We can support activists and non-governmental organisations working on human rights, provide support for victims of violence, for homeless people and other disadvantaged people, and we can do our part by asking responsible authorities. In the Christian People's Party, we are many who have a strong commitment to the anti-slavery struggle. The Christian People's Party National Assembly adopted in our resolution a series of proposals for action, including: on the intensification of cross-border cooperation, on the specific focus on children who are victims of trafficking in human beings. In particular, minor asylum seekers are vulnerable – others from the Christian People's Party will address this debate. Police action and cooperation at international level and with other actors at national level need to be strengthened. There must be even more education in school, not only about slavery as it once was, but also about modern slavery. Those who work in public institutions and agencies that are close to being able to reveal trafficking in human beings must have knowledge to do just that, and they must get it through their education. In the Nordic Council, several of us experienced a rather intense debate on this issue in the last session. Line Barfod, a colleague of the Danish Folketing, heads the working group on trafficking in human beings at the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Conference, which, at the beginning of September, made its first recommendations to the governments around the Baltic Sea on what measures should be taken to combat slavery. There was a very thought-provoking debate and one of the reasons why I have raised the matter here in Stortingen today. I expect the Norwegian government to take a close look at the recommendations and to quickly assess how these can be followed up. One of the proposals of the working group is the need to secure permanent appropriations for police, for protection, for social authorities and for labour supervision. The working group also stresses the need to avoid treating people who are exposed to slavery as illegal immigrants. We need to have a human rights access to these questions. These people are entitled to our help and protection, says Line Barfod from the Danish Parliament. If we really want to, and set aside enough time and resources, we can fight slavery. It's basically a question of human dignity. In a week, the United Kingdom will mark an anti-slavery day that the British Parliament has decided to set up. There's the goal of raising awareness of everyone who in the United Kingdom and the rest of the world is trapped in modern slavery. I would ask our Council of State if it could not be an idea that we in Norway too are doing something similar to what the British Parliament has decided, thereby increasing awareness and commitment to Norway, and internationally, to slavery.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e170	I want to thank the interpellant for giving us the opportunity to discuss this in Stortinget, and so early in this session. There are three elements of the interpellation – also in the rationale for the interpellation – that now emerged, and for which I have a great sense. The first is the need to point out the scale, seriousness and proximity of the problem, including here in Norway. I fully agree with the interpellant on the question of the use of terms related to this, including: to bring in the seriousness for all of us. The other thing that I have the sense of is that you shouldn't think it's hopeless to limit, help, get people out of the kind of serious crime we're facing here. We have experienced that in Norway. This has also been seen in other countries. Hopelessness must not characterize us in this work. The third thing I have a lot of enthusiasm for, and for which you'll eventually get excited, among other things. when you are in government, we are totally dependent on sharing responsibility. There are others who need to see if we are to succeed, among other things. to reach all minors who are exposed to one of the most cynical forms of crime in existence. That is why I fully agree with the interpellant: this fight against new forms of slavery must be high on the agenda of our society. This is why the government has chosen to follow up what the previous government has done, with continuous action plans – at the latest this year with the new action plan, which has some and thirty points, and which will involve us all, both locally, regionally and centrally, and not least to achieve wider and closer international cooperation. We are totally dependent on taking concrete, small steps in many fields to be able to lift more of this type of serious crime. In the draft budget presented last week, a very central response from our action plan was proposed – as was also the subject of the inter-pellant. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion will submit a proposal to amend the Child Protection Act which will allow access to the temporary placement of children at an appropriate institution, where there is a risk of the child being exploited for trafficking in human beings. We have experienced that some minors who come to Norway alone and seek asylum withdraw from their reception after a short time. In order to avoid this, it is proposed to set at 17 million. kr in order to build up a customised offer, which will allow for a legislative change. We're looking at the possibilities to do that, for example. Here in the Oslo area. I would also like to point out that the Coordination Unit for Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings, COM, was launched as a project based on Action 29 in the Government's Action Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings from 2006-2009, Stop Trafficking in Human Beings. From 1 January 2011, this coordination unit became permanent. This is an important place for moving common resources in one direction: assist State enterprises assist municipal and regional auxiliaries to assist organisations providing assistance and protection to victims of trafficking in human beings contribute to multidisciplinary exchange of information and enhancement of competences in the field of trafficking in human beings; This is just something the interpellant is asking for. I am optimistic about the work to be done in this coordination unit, and I believe we have already learned that much of this work is useful. But there's a lot left. COM, of course, becomes an area for cooperation between agencies and organisations, with regular meetings, and consists of representatives from the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Diversity, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare, Nav Operations and Development, the Directorate for Health, Labour, Higher Public Prosecutors and Police. These are many good forces that I am convinced we can get more out of, by coordinating it better. The unit is administratively bound by the Directorate of Police. I would also like to point out, as a concrete measure, what was introduced during the previous planning period, i.e. under the current government – which I believe is a very important measure, namely the reflection period, the fact that those who are exposed to this in some form and come to Norway to seek residence just after this has been evaluated, have the opportunity to reflect, have the opportunity to be in the country. It's on this background the reflection period will be further developed from our side. Then I will also point to the international aspect of this. There is hardly any form of crime that is more internationally entrenched than this one. We'll be totally dependent on getting good tools for, among other things. to prevent children from coming to Norway on this basis, either in sex traffic or as a tool to commit minor, or serious, crime — or for other illegal purposes. In particular, I would point out that Norway will continue to finance projects that support local authorities’ efforts to combat trafficking in human beings and that Norwegian foreign stations will assist in identifying projects and actions in cooperation with national authorities. This depends entirely on us being also a driver to strengthen, coordinate and implement the international anti-trafficking legislation. In particular, I would like to highlight the efforts to strengthen the monitoring mechanism of the Council of Europe Convention on action against trafficking in human beings, which was ratified by Norway in 2008. An expert group, in which Norway has participated, has just submitted a report to set standards for this in Europe. At the same time, we participate in processes to spread knowledge and allow for stronger efforts. For example, the Ministry of Justice has for several years prioritised participation in the work of the Baltic Sea Council against trafficking in human beings. A targeted project to identify new forms of exploitation of people in the region is also being developed, underpinning the work of the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings. We have been taking action for years to address the use of prostitution. Today, we are constantly seeing new forms of exploitation of people for forced labour. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has long been a driving force in the fight against forced labour, and Norway supports the organisation’s efforts for decent working conditions. In Norway, it may be a challenge to separate forced labour from what we call social dumping. Despite possible grey zones, social dumping will not involve coercion or deprivation of liberty. The government is concerned that all workers in Norway should have good pay and working conditions and safe jobs, and a broad fight against social dumping is therefore being waged by the Ministry of Labour. This is also required to prevent trafficking in human beings – or modern slavery of our time. It is the responsibility of each of us to contribute to the maintenance of such decent relationships. Then I would like to point out in particular a relationship in international cooperation that I believe is a great opportunity area for us, and it is to be clearer when we use the EEA Finance Facility. Over the last few years, the Ministry of Justice has chosen to connect it to other cooperation actions, bilaterally and multilaterally, with other countries, in several areas of the EEA funding mechanism. Solitude transfer is one aspect, but also in the fight against trafficking in human beings, I believe that we need to use the EEA funding mechanism more actively against the countries concerned. The focus is on cooperating with the recipient countries to ratify and implement the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention when we discuss this. Norway has, inter alia: supported training measures for police in Bulgaria, which have been of direct benefit to Norwegian police. Finally, I would like to point out that the police here in Norway have a special responsibility. They must have specific competence to combat trafficking in human beings. In recent years, the budget has given priority to tackling trafficking in human beings in prostitution. There are very complex things to investigate, and it is not always you – literally – have the perpetrator at your fingertips. Nevertheless, I am pleased – and I notice that the interpellant has also noticed, among other things. The last case that has been in Lithuania — that both the STOP project in Oslo and the Exit Project in Hordaland and other police districts have actually managed to lift some issues. I am not telling my subordinates in the police to take everything, and that we are happy, but in this field it is important to get examples, symbolic things, which show that you are responding. This is primarily to get the seriousness of the matter that the interpellant is asking for, to point out that when it comes to the fight against slavery, it should just be lacking that we are not able to straighten out some of the issues that come up, whether it be children, or adults who are exposed to this in our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e225	One of my political heroes was at the head of the fight against the slave trade 200 years ago. He was also a parliamentarian. He spent his entire life fighting slavery, and his parliamentary career was far beyond what I'm ever going to be – 50 years away. He experienced success, and the great victor became a reality the same year he died. His name was William Wilberforce and was the man in front of someone behind the Slavery Abolition Act 1833 in the British Parliament. I hope that it will not take the same time until we can see that Norway is free of slavery. I think the Council of State had a very offensive and good response. I am pleased with the emphasis he attaches to the building of competences throughout our system, strengthening the special groups of the police and the role of foreign stations, which I believe can actually be used to an even greater extent, if they are given the necessary skills and resources to it, targeted in the countries where it is relevant. The use of EEA funding mechanisms in this context is a very sensible use of money that we must use anyway. So I'll give you a strong support for that. But at the same time, I would like to ask whether the government is ready to express the bold and visionary objective of Norway becoming the world's first slave-free country. I'll challenge the Council of State on that. I would also like to ask whether the government will consider a proposal by the British, to introduce a day that you are just using to raise the awareness and build the skills of the entire population that I understand we are completely agreed upon if necessary. And finally, other countries have been fortunate enough to establish an independent national rapporteur for trafficking in human beings and slavery. Is there anything Norway and Norway's government can expect to do? I think we agree on many good measures, but at the same time we must note that the problem persists – and perhaps increases to an extent. That is exactly why it is important to be open to new, concrete proposals, as well as those I have mentioned here. I'm not saying that we have the knowledge of everything that's going on, but we have some ideas that I had hoped the Council of State could comment positively through its answers here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e236	First of all, I would like to thank you for your response. It is an advantage that we can cope with many of the measures. We've seen through the work on the two action plans I've been involved in making, that there's a line going from the previous government to the work we're now doing. There is no quick fix in this case. That's why I think it's very important that you build stone by stone and have the seriousness, that the interpellant is concerned about, with us. With regard to the objective for Norway, I think it must be obvious that we are going to become a slave-free country. If we were to be the first, it would have been nice. But what is the idea behind these action plans is that this is a form of crime we see so seriously that we do not want this here. That's zero tolerance. That's the government's attitude to it. On the issue of introducing an anti-slavery day, the British have done so. We see that 18 October has become a day of marked resistance to trafficking in human beings in the EU. I think it is quite natural that we also, on the Norwegian side, consider the question of joining in the work that is taking place in particular in the EU and use it on 18 October. That's why I want to address the question of whether we're going to use that day for such a marking, with the coordination unit that I mentioned in my main post – not least to get feedback and input about how we're going to use such a day. I think it could be important to get serious and to mobilize. We also have an assessment – particularly in connection with the Council of Europe Convention and its follow-up – of whether we should have a rapporteur, as I understand it is in Finland. We haven't concluded in that context, but we have it to assess. I believe that much of the work and experience gained in Finland related to the rapporteur’s activities will be useful. These are affordable measures. So we will also consider the question of the reporter. Finally, I would like to make a few comments about this with the EEA funds: a lot of people think of EEA funds as something we almost just give out of some commitment. We have a golden chance of getting a win-win situation on the use of funds in this work. It is much greater than in the past that of the recipient countries to put this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e249	Thank you to the Højbråten that promises the theme of trafficking in human beings into our political work. There have been many debates on this in the past, but it is important to take the debate over and over again. This is slavery of our time. There is trade in a product that can be sold over and over again. We as legislators have a special responsibility to keep the debate going and to find the measures that work. For the last two years, I have been a representative of the Nordic Council in the working group mentioned by Højbrätten. Our report was submitted in August. There are many different measures that I want us to be able to use. Trafficking in human beings is a broad concept. It embraces much more than what we normally think of when we hear the word 'trafficking'. Therefore, it is correct to use the word ‘slavery’ as the term. Divorce, children at risk of stealing, and organ sales are mentioned – even in the workplace, this issue is relevant. When you are threatened, deprived or unable to control your own life, you are a victim. It's interesting to have slavery in ever-new industries. I'd like to mention the aupair system. The combination of domestic help and prostitution in the evening shows an increase. It's important that we don't just care about what's going on in our own country. The victims come from or live in other countries. I mention short sex tourism where children are exploited, or trips to buy sex, because it is more accepted in other countries. I'm glad we have sanctions. I'm glad we have a law that can cover up and ensure that the victims in those countries are protected. Offer and demand belong together here too. We are doing a lot of good work here in Norway. ROSA is one of the measures. They provide assistance and safe places of residence for women. Pro Center, who works to expose and help victims, is another. COM was also the Council of State. They work on trafficking in human beings in the cross between forced labour and social dumping. Everyone does an important job. The challenge is all of those we don't reach, or those who don't want to accept help. State councils mentioned the reflection period. I think it's very important to look at it further. It is also important to look at a holistic approach that provides a good and secure framework, because it is important. Here's the danger of retrafficking very large. I am also concerned about the children mentioned – not only those who are victims, but also those who are with parents or are born in proportion. We know that children are salesmen. They are specifically mentioned in the government's action plan, and I am very pleased with it. I expect that it will be carefully followed up. It's very good that happens, but a lot can be done better. One thing is certain: trafficking in human beings is about money. We have to stop the money. The profits of trafficking in human beings in Europe in 2007 were estimated at about 20 billion. dollar. This means that trafficking in human beings is the second largest source of income for organised crime after drugs. The risk of being taken is minimal. Intermediaries are arrested, while the rearmen are safely located outside the borders of the country in question, where they receive the income from slavery. How are we going to hit the backers where it's mostly insecure? The criminals invest where it's the best profit. That's why I think we need to focus more on the flow of money, i.e., "Follow the money." The idea is to follow the money directly to the principal, but it's hard. Therefore, I think we need to stop the cash flow by making it more risky and difficult to transfer money. Increased cooperation, exchange and interconnection of data nationally and internationally between all institutions with a financial overview are necessary. If we compile those data, we can reveal the cash flows. We need to increase the focus on currency smuggling and have better control at border crossings, airports, trains and ferries. And I'd like to mention once again Bikkja Ben, as I've mentioned here before, who snorted up to more than 10 million. NOK 1,2 million in Norwegian. euro, in 2010. In Norway, the customs director estimates that the reductions are in the range of 2–3 billion. kr per year. If we make it hard to move the money, it could reduce trafficking in human beings. We can do that by removing the largest banknotes in our currencies. The harder it is to transport them, the better it is. The 500 euros bill is very popular. You can put 20 000 euros into a cigarette package. Like the United Kingdom, stop selling 500 euro banknotes. So we have to take the discussion: what do you pay for a slave? What do you risk, and what do you earn? I believe that our recent action plan has brought some shades. I think that if we follow all the good advice from all the selections and groups that sit and work, and maybe incorporate them into our work, we can get even further. We all have a responsibility to avoid the slavery of our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e279	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Højbräten, for addressing a topic that is both bad and difficult, but for which I – like the representative – am burning. I guess we'd rather not discuss it, but that world doesn't exist. Trafficking in human beings is a complex and big problem that it's probably hard to get to life, no matter how much we like it. As long as there is great poverty and distress in the world, there will always be someone who sees an opportunity to make money on others. I don't mean looking hopelessly at it, as the council said, but we have to admit that it's a very big problem. Organized criminals trick people into believing that they can make a lot of money in rich countries, and then it turns out that they are actually sending them out on the sex market. Parents who don't manage to feed their family sell their children. This might sound completely absurd. But I've been talking to the kids, so I know this is the case. These children are sent home, as soon as you know the identity, and we can imagine what happens then – the children are sold again. There have been cases in the Council of Europe concerning hospital workers in countries in eastern Europe that actually steal and sell babies, right from the clinic, to wealthy families in Europe. All human trafficking is unacceptable. I know that Minister of Justice Storberget shares my view of this. I know the Minister of Justice as a very committed person when it comes to trafficking in human beings and combating this. However, despite the fact that Europe as a whole is making a serious effort to curb trafficking in human beings at all levels, Norway still allows trafficking in human beings. I travel a lot. But never, never do I ever see as many organized beggars as Karl Johan. This is clearly a form of human trafficking. This type of trafficking in human beings is specifically described in the Convention of the Council of Europe. That is why it may be particularly difficult for me, as Head of the European Council Delegation, to see this, and not understand why Norway does not have the same approach to beggars as the rest of Europe. Then I'll be brutally honest. It's strictly because I became a politician, no matter what others may think. I also see surrogati as trafficking in people, especially when there are poor women in developing countries – or in countries where there is a large population – who are paid and bought to bring children to the world. Surrogati is not allowed in Norway, but you can see through your fingers that this is happening from abroad. I am tempted to ask the Minister of Justice whether he has plans to change this law, so that the purchase of unborn children abroad is also banned. It is also a fact that when you are able to reach intermediaries in human trafficking in Norway, you do not always have the resources to pursue matters. We have seen examples of girls being sent home again – despite reflection time – and when any legal action comes up, the witness is not to be found. I guess it's not hard to see where these girls have gone. Either they have been placed in the sex market elsewhere in Europe, or they have been taken by days because they silenced the intermediaries. Trafficking in human beings is cruel and totally unacceptable. I am very pleased that a new action plan has arrived, and I think I have mentioned this to the Council of State earlier: Would it have been an idea that this action plan was also distributed to the representatives of the magnificence? If we don't have to sit and look for action plans in the different departments. It would have been very good to get it. It's actually possible to prevent. I have three specific proposals, I should like to be brief: stricter penalties for organised trafficking in human beings prohibit begging — it would make it less attractive to send disabled persons, the elderly and children to Norway for making money on begging introduce a ban on the purchase of unborn children by surrogati abroad These are three measures that will give clear signals that Norway is not a country that accepts trafficking in human beings, and will therefore also become less lucrative for organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e308	I want to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant in an area where there is so much rawness and human contempt that it is almost impossible to understand when you hear these stories in different areas, and not least to use the right word and concept of the business that is going on: trafficking. There's someone who actually doesn't understand yet that it has nothing to do with transport policy. It's something completely different. It's a pretty serious crime and nothing mild. I also think it is important that the interpellant underlined the individual's responsibility. Because we are in an area where – if it is not trafficking – it is at least that some people in this country have semi-racist attitudes – if not heroic – in the view they have on those who wash the floor, which is au pair for them. What you have seen in Sweden is quite a rough example of how au pairs are exploited. We haven't fully taken that debate here, but there we have to have a clean-up. I have witnessed for myself the attitude that someone has towards au pairs – she’s so incredibly cheap, it’s amazing how effective and gentle she is, she can work 14 hours a day and it’s just fine – but it’s cruel to have sex when they get out on the street. There we have a job to do with creating some attitudes. As the representative Mandt was in, forced prostitution is just one of several areas. It may be very visible, but in relation to the creativity of these organized criminal environments, there are almost no limits to what they can see for themselves to use people for. So people can be used many times, a drug can't be used the same many times, so profit is also the highest when it comes to other people's bodies. At the same time, the Council of State has been concerned with important things in complexity. Some of them we're talking about have been exposed to voodoo. Then we have to find ways to get rid of the conspirators. It's not easy. There are cultural differences here that you can't immediately expect everyone in the police to understand. Then it's like women who are perceived as very reluctant to be witnesses. But if you're going to realize your reluctance to tell, you also have to understand what they've been through. Even courted policemen are unable to understand what some of the women who have been sold repeatedly have been exposed to. It's hard to understand how they're going to be able to explain themselves at all because of the fear of the family and the fear of represals, for example. We're going to have a slave-free country, and then we're going to have to bet on the police. In terms of bets on the police, I expect that in a month or two, we can discuss how much it is actually going to be put on the police in this country, because you don't create competence in an empty space or completely independent of the police's resource situation. But we can have ample opportunity to discuss that later. In any case, the risk of detection needs to be increased. It was said here that the penalty level must rise. Yes, it must. At the same time, it must be economic for those who are involved in this. It's in the budgets of some of the organized criminal environments -- they think that a courier, a sub-employee to call it that, is in the budgets -- that you might lose 2 pst. of the investment to be made. If you can see this the same way you do with other financial crime, the amount of money, the fact that it's purely diet-benefit calculations, we might be able to achieve our goals by following the money, which the representative Mandt was in. The right believes that it is a good idea to have a national rapporteur. When the Justice Committee visited the Netherlands, I have to say that we got a very good impression of the scheme they had there. We got quite a lot of new information – that an independent person who sees things from the outside and can report it does. I also agree with what has been said about the need to involve the Storting to a greater extent, because this type of debate – an interpellation – would be desirable. You don't have a regular routine to discuss trafficking in human beings in a broad perspective in Stortinget. This should be done, perhaps combining it with the establishment of a national rapporteur. In the case of beggaring, there are also measures other than prohibitions. When the Justice Committee was in Canada recently, there were interesting ways to think and involve local commerce and business by actually informing about the help offers on flyers while saying that it should not be necessary to give money to any of them. Rather, give money to recognised good organisations that work effectively among people who have a difficult social situation. In this way, both a pedagogical approach to the provision of assistance is achieved and, in fact, it is known what exists, and it does not support trafficking in human beings. Finally, the question of surrogati: I think we'll have discussions about that later. In principle, it's easy to be very brave, but in relation to the children that actually exist, it's very hard to be against as well. But we'll have plenty of time to discuss that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e331	Let me start by commending the interpellant to focus on a very serious theme in the staging room. Trafficking in human beings is today's slavery. We thought humanity was over with this obscurity decades ago. Great men and women, groups and nations have made wonderful efforts to enable people to live as free people, as we are born, that humanity should be rid of this scourge, but at that time one. Slavery lives at best in our days. Millions of people around the world live in some kind of life that can be described as slavery by some degree. I was told here in the Chamber by my colleague Karin Andersen that the number can be quite high in 100 million people, it varies. In many Arab countries, for example, millions of foreign workers live so that I will clearly identify them as slaves. People sell themselves or their children to landowners or other employers for food. People affected by drought, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters etc. are forced into slavery. There's got to be an overall grip here. People are tricked or forced into slavery, many people are carried across borders and ports in some kind of slavery. The extent is terrifying. This is the challenge of humanity; this is an international challenge. We need to solve this both with national efforts and with international cooperation. I am pleased that the government is very concerned about this and among other things. has set up a new action plan against trafficking in human beings to underpin its broad work against trafficking in human beings. The government’s action plan against trafficking in human beings is thoughtful, coordinated and broad, delivering results and is fully supported by the Stortinge. The Minister of Justice went through many measures the government has initiated and implemented in line with this action plan. On the SV side, I would say that we are very concerned that the effort should be powerful and continuous, because this is about the very foundation of human civilization. Man is born free and must live free. The interpellant asks: What can we do as individuals, communities and authorities? I have to say he answers very well himself. SV fully shares his reflections. Here we stand together. So I would like to ask: do we have people in Norway who are trapped in conditions that can be described as slavery, or who can end up there? Yes, unfortunately, there are people in Norway who live or could risk living such a life. We have e.g. many people who have applied for asylum but whose application for asylum has been rejected. On the basis of a subjective assessment of their safety, part of them believe that if returned to their country of origin, they will be in danger of life. They fear torture, imprisonment, and perhaps death. They choose to stay in Norway – if we can call it a choice in the correct sense of the word. We don't know how many there are. The central statistical agency estimates the figure to be 18 000. The Norwegian Asylum Organisation believes that the figure is between 1000 and 1500. These people have no rights in Norway. We know how precious it is to live in Norway: food, clothes, roof over the head, medicines – the basic. To finance this, these people allow themselves to be exploited by cynical people. They are forced to work for luxuries, they live miserable and are victims of all exploitation an employer has to find the right way. Is it modern slavery? Not far away. So how can we counteract this? The city council in Trondheim has shown us the way. The courageous city council decided that the paperless would be allowed to work in Trondheim until they were sent out of the country. It's about human dignity, says the leader of the Trondheim Workers' Party, Rune Olsø, and he has my full support. Are we going to help people to work legally, pay taxes, support themselves and possibly their families and contribute to Norwegian society, or do we think it's okay that these people are being exploited as slaves, while we passively ride principles? I hope that the Council of State reflects on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e352	It's been a long time since the fight against slavery was the crown of hell in the southern states. One would believe that slavery and other forms of human trafficking belonged to history and the past. Unfortunately, it is not like that. The problem is also increasing and spreading to our country as well. We're talking about women from other countries who are lured by promises of good work here in Norway, who come here and get elected by the backers and force themselves to prostitute. Threats of their family knowing that they have been prostitutes, and being beaten up if they try to get out of this, make the oppression and loss of freedom complete. It was heartbreaking to read in the media about the case in Bangladesh where a man was arrested for renting a bunch who had maimed kids. They amputated arms and legs on the kids to then force them to beg. These mutilated chicks were rented out on a daily basis to women who could make the young beg for income for them. They stood up as guards to make sure that the kids did as they said. I get sick and angry that you can be treated like this, and the fight against human trafficking is something I think we need to intensify. I am pleased that the government takes this problem seriously, and appreciate that the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten takes up the theme. Also in normal professional activity, there is trafficking and coercion. Minister of Justice Storberget is right to say that it is difficult to distinguish between social dumping and forced labour. The Labour Inspectorate makes a good effort to prevent and detect this. The guest worker’s workload will be examined. The same thing is going to be the housing and the contracts. Everything's supposed to be taken care of. What I still lack is that it is focused on from different quarters, is the form of human trafficking that organized begging represents. It seems funny and unintelligible that on one side they worry about mature people, who may get low wages, but live in houses for free put at their disposal, while they happily overlook that young and old sit on the pavement for hours, weeks and months and begs. Whether it's ten degrees of heat or ten minus, doesn't seem to worry us any particular. These human beings often live in cold tents without proper sanitary conditions. This still worries me and the Center Party. We have programmed that begging should be banned again after the ban was lifted a few years ago. For example, the number of beggars from Romania has increased sharply following the lifting of the ban on so-called beggary. Last year the Justice Committee was visiting Romania, and the clear advice we received was that begging should be banned in Norway – to help prevent begging from becoming the only way of life for many for the future, and to prevent coercion. I am aware that this is a difficult issue, and that by date there are probably not many in Stortinget to reintroduce the ban on begging. However, I believe that the question will force us to take seriously the theme of trafficking in human beings and all the variants of this theme. It may seem inhuman to forbid people to beg for the rest of their lives, but in that case it may well be considered inhumane to put a stopper so that guest workers can work for pay far below the rate, too. It is quite possible to argue that such a job situation is in any case better than being unemployed in your home country, cf. the arguments that are often used to make begging legal. I think we very often overlook that begging is actually organized by the backers. It may be of relatives, but in Romania, they stress that it is also organized. There's nothing to say if it's a relative, or if there's any kind of forward backer. Now, when I've used most of my article on the subject of forced begging and the violation of human rights, it's not to underestimate how important it is to work against other types of human trafficking, but to bring this dimension into the debate. Other representatives have presented the manifold problem of trafficking in human beings in an excellent way. We have to keep working towards modern slavery, and it is good to right that all parties in this interpellant debate take the problem seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e375	Thank you to the representative Højbräten for raising such an important debate here in Stortinget. I also want to give the government credit for following up the action plan against trafficking in human beings. I would like to point out a concrete problem in our own country. In the last ten years, almost 400 children have disappeared from Norwegian asylum recipients, and only one third of them reappear. When a Norwegian child disappears, the police, the media and the related sky and earth are moving to bring the child to justice, and that is the way it should be. However, disappearances of single minor asylum seekers are often overlooked in silence. Lone minor asylum seekers are one of the most vulnerable groups of children in Norway and are treated daily differently. They are without parents in Norway and are in a very vulnerable situation. Under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the State is responsible for the exercise of the rights of these children. Unfortunately, this is not the case for everyone here in Norway. Not all single minor asylum seekers who disappear become victims of slavery. Some choose to leave for other countries after having been refused their asylum application. But the danger is great because a good part of them have become victims of human trafficking. A Swedish report that dealt with disappearances during a given period showed that in 11 out of 100 cases, there was information in the disappearance cases that gave cause for concern about trafficking. In Norway, we also have several known cases of slavery involving children. The Minister of Justice is well aware of this issue and has promised that there will be a theme in the communication on refugee children, which has been announced for a long time. I assume that the government is in the final phase of this work, and that the Minister of Justice can share some thoughts about this today, when we discuss slavery here in the Stortinget. Tone Salthe of the human trafficking team at Hvalstad Transit reception has arranged for children under the age of 18 to be forced to be placed by child protection where there is a risk of trafficking in human beings. The Minister of Justice has also addressed this issue in his speech today. The April 2008 report entitled ‘Minors disappearing from reception — prevention and education’ shows that the number of minors who have disappeared from reception is relatively large, the follow-up has been varied and the knowledge of what has happened to the children is inadequate. The working group has identified at least 51 minor asylum seekers who disappeared from reception or housing measures in the period 2005-2007. In 2008, 37 children were still missing. Employees at reception have reported concerns about eleven as potential victims of slavery. In order to capture the lone minor migrants who fall outside the asylum and reception system, it is appropriate to establish a separate child protection team responsible for all matters involving children without a connection to Norway. In order to ensure that children are caught and given appropriate and necessary help, it is dependent on the immediate handling of the cases when outreach services, police or other bodies identify a new minor in a worrying situation. When, for various reasons, the minor migrants themselves avoid care and there are unclear responsibilities or disagreements among the responsible bodies around the level of concern for them, or whether the case is to be treated primarily as a foreign matter, slavery or ‘common’ child protection case, the likelihood of ‘glipping’ in the system increases. These issues often concern young people who have developed problems related to drugs, crime or mental health. It is therefore very worrying that these young people are missing out on auxiliaries. Knowledge in this area is lacking, and it is therefore appropriate to facilitate research into the group of minor asylum seekers who disappear from asylum seekers in Norway. We know far too little about who they are, what kind of possible networks they belong to before they arrive, and what networks they are picked up from when they arrive – after they come to Norway. The Christian People's Party has called for more measures. Among other things, we have suggested that we have to put in place a specialised police unit that only works with human trafficking and children, because special knowledge and skills are required to deal with such issues. There is a need for a special offer, a centre for children who are victims of trafficking in human beings, with specially trained personnel. Another proposal that will improve the situation of more children in Norway is to provide child protection with care for lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18. I hope that the Minister of Justice can also look into these proposals, which we have promoted on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e395	I would also like to thank the Højbråten for a very good and important interpellation. We have to remember that the picture of trafficking in human beings is quite complex and different. In essence, you can say that it's about criminal structures, criminal structures that sometimes act like guns, sometimes act like drugs, and sometimes act like people. But the basis for human trafficking is also poverty, because there are people who can be exploited, because we live in a world of enormous social differences. It is true, as the Minister of Justice says, that the distinction between social dumping and trafficking in human beings is quite slipping. It is that you can go past a normal construction site in Norway where the foreign worker has all the paperwork in order, has all the things on the care, has everything that a Norwegian labour inspector can check, completely in place to the smallest detail. But what you don't know is that the salary that they say they get goes into an account where the money really goes to someone else, because whoever's made sure you have this job has a thank you for your family at home in Moldova or at home in Poland. That makes that money you never see. So sail if we have good control procedures, and sail if we do all that right here, the criminal structures manage to exploit people because they can have a roof on the family there at home. So it's not like all human trafficking is about "Lilja 4-ever". It's not that it's just about women. In Europe, this may be all about men who are exposed to criminal structures that have a roof over them. That is why it is not only with Norwegian legislation that this is being combated. It is being combated by the international fight against criminal structures. You fight it against crime in general. The fight against poverty is also being fought. When I've been visiting shelters in Romania for the women who have been exposed to trafficking in human beings, the picture is much more complex. Some people tell the worst stories, and some people say that they really want to go back, because the poverty they come from is worse than the exploitation they've been exposed to. It says something about the differences in living conditions we have in Europe. I don't think that banning poverty, like that. by prohibiting begging, will be able to solve the underlying problems. And to put it this way: there are no children begging on Norwegian streets, sail if the Center Party claims it. It has ensured Norwegian police and child protection that it is not. Then I would say I see that Geir Jørgen Bekkewold made a very good contribution, which is about the children who disappear from Norwegian asylum recipients. I know young left-wing people who have had good friends at asylum receptions, and who suddenly discovered that the friends to whom they had a good relationship have disappeared overnight. They've stormed down to the police room to notify them that they're gone, and the entire emergency response has turned on – until someone has told us it was an asylum child. Then it's not that important anymore. We have to make sure that we have good routines for all of these children, also for those who have no adults to take care of. Finally, it's the stateless people that we have in this country, because we have some stateless people. Stavanger and Trondheim have now decided – Stavanger unanimously in the Presidency – that everyone living in this country must have the opportunity to support themselves in Norwegian law. I think it might be a wake-up call when Trondheim asks the stateless how many they think they are. Then they answer approx. 500. When the Trondheim politicians ask how many have signed up in the social office for emergency help, the social office answers: None. These are people who eat, like showers, who sleep, and who exist in Norwegian society. They must find the possibility of doing this in other ways when they do not meet in the social office. We know where it is: it's in the mess at the restaurant we're visiting, it's the backrooms that we really don't want to talk about. Combating trafficking in human beings and trafficking also means that people in this country must be given the opportunity to care properly. If we don't know where they end up, they end up right where we don't want them to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e410	As many people before me, I would also like to thank Dagfinn Højbräten for bringing this important debate to Stortinget. By putting the theme of ‘trafficking in human beings’ on the political agenda, we can hopefully contribute to changes that will reduce their scope. It is in the concept of ‘trafficking in human beings’ that this involves trafficking in human beings. We're talking about everything from prostitution and forced labor to the sale of organs -- literally meat and blood. We also know that trafficking in human beings mainly affects people living in difficult conditions, with great social distress and poverty, which many people have experienced. I think it's cruel to think of all the evil fates of the victims of human trafficking, and it's terrible to think of someone at all having a conscience to organize and carry out human trafficking. Equally incomprehensible is the fact that there are people who knowingly and willfully are customers of traffickers – i.e. people who buy other people. In my opinion, these are people who are exposed to conscience and who have zero respect for human dignity and human rights. The Government’s action plan against trafficking in human beings points to many important and relevant issues, followed by concrete actions and initiatives. I refer you to the Minister of Justice's posts, which well illustrate the government's conscious work against trafficking in human beings, both nationally and internationally. There have been many interesting contributions here in the debate, focusing on different areas of human trafficking. I have chosen to spend the rest of my speaking time on prostitution, which is a major part of what we find in human trafficking. The stories of the human fortunes behind this business are as heartbreaking as in several other areas. One of the measures I really believe in to combat prostitution is awareness-raising work. The question can actually be made as simple as: Is it possible to buy sexual services? Of course, we mean no here. Simply put, if everyone had the same attitude as us, it wouldn't have been a prostitution market. It's a simple rhetoric, but still a point. In addition to a general attitude-building work, the law can also affect both our attitudes and our behaviour. I am one of the supporters of the ban on sex purchase, which we have introduced in Norway. This is, as everyone knows, a controversial law also in the Workers' Party. There's always an interesting research on the effect of this law. I read a short time ago at research.no an excerpt from a doctoral thesis that shows that the ban on sex buying we introduced in Norway has contributed to positive changes in attitudes. According to NOVA researcher Andreas Kotsadam, people in Oslo in particular have become more negative for the purchase of sex. The same applies to young people. Kotsadam believes that Oslo people stand out because prostitution is more visible and noticeable in the capital than in the rest of the country, and it is often seen that legislation has a greater impact on the attitudes of those most affected by the laws in question. The fact that young people have become more negative in prostitution than other age groups explains that, in general, young people are more likely to change their opinion on policy issues. So that's hope! So this research shows that the ban on the purchase of sex has actually changed our attitudes. The same research also shows that there is less trafficking and prostitution in countries with bans. There is clearly the least trafficking in human beings in the ban countries, for example. in Sweden, and clearly most of all in the countries where prostitution is part of the legal economy, i.e. The Netherlands, Greece and Germany. The same researcher believes that this has a simple explanation — that prostitution is operated as other economic activities; when costs become too large, it is laid down or moved, a ban makes it more expensive and more difficult. That's why I insist that our ban on the purchase of sex is important and proper to combat this kind of trafficking in human beings. Of course, this is not the only instrument, but it is an important instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e439	First, I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question, which challenges us to be visionary. As the interpellant said, many are of the opinion that slavery was abolished by Lincoln at the end of the 1800s, and that slavery is now just a term for a pamphlet in world history. Many of those sitting here probably have, like me, thought, how could they let that happen? How could they see that people were being oppressed, treated as animals and sold on the market? But then we all know that slavery was not abolished in the 1800s. We know that not only does slavery exist, but slavery is even more widespread and brutal now, today. Therefore, it is timely that the interpellant meets us with the same question that another Christian Democrat, William Wilberforce, asked almost 200 years ago in the English Parliament: How do we make slavery history? The Bondevik Government presented the first action plan against trafficking in human beings, and the current government should be commended for having followed up, both with a new action plan and with measures in the budgets, such as: the focus in the 2012 budget on children at risk of trafficking in human beings. Despite the focus both on human trafficking and on the government, the number of victims has increased in Norway. In recent years, we have seen that there have been issues in which trafficking in human beings is linked, among other things. aupairs, sex sales and begging, many of which have been involved. The rise in the problem may be a sign that it is too simple and too lucrative for the backers to come to Norway and run this business. It is appropriate to assume that this is due to a low risk and a low impact on the backers of the Norwegian market. There are several reasons why the risk of being convicted for trafficking in human beings and slavery seems low in Norway. In particular, we find a tremendous fear among prostitutes to report their behinders. They fear represals from the rearmen, both to themselves and not least to their families. But they are also afraid to be sent out of the country, so to speak, to be ‘re-trafficked’, which also many people have been in today. It is therefore important for victims to be adequately protected if they choose to report backers, and it should also be considered whether it should be easier to obtain permanent residence in Norway for victims of trafficking in human beings. But the incentives for reporting the backbones of slavery will hardly be overcome with slavery alone. Perhaps the biggest obstacle is people's attitudes. Over the past few weeks, we have seen prominent politicians and social debaters who have spoken down the severity of one of the main elements of modern slavery — prostitution. If legislators and other social actors do not clearly distance themselves from markets marked by human trafficking and slavery, how can we expect the people to do so? Nevertheless, the views of politicians on prostitution, and the attitudes of social actors on slavery, are not enough to change people's attitudes to the same problems. In fact, we need a promise of knowledge about slavery. The Christian People's Party has also called for a rise in knowledge among most people. If you look at the United States, one third of modern slavery is revealed by ordinary citizens. In order for ordinary citizens to be able to help, a greater level of information is needed. We want information about modern slavery to be lifted into teaching as well. In this way, more knowledge and information is provided, so that it actually becomes easier to specify. The fight against trafficking in human beings is not about the fight against prostitution, organ trafficking, surrogati or slavery alone, because trafficking in human beings and slavery are still coming into new wrappings and designs. The fight against trafficking in human beings is about the fight for freedom, independence, equality and human dignity. If the whole world's population shares the same basic belief that all people have the same, infinite value, and that all people are inviolable, yes, then we can manage to abolish human trafficking and slavery. It's a goal it's hard to achieve, but the goal of a world free of slavery should be our clear vision. I will join in what the interpellant said in his post. The situation is far from hopeless. That's what the Council of State said. There are solutions to the problem. It requires an enormous effort, but the effort cannot even be measured against the value of the freedom given to those who come out of the perhaps most brutal and merciless industry in the world. I thank again the interpellant for the initiative of cooperation for a slave-free Norway and a slave-free world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e471	Trade in labour has gradually become a billion-dollar industry with enormous profits. To some extent, these activities also go into organized crime, and the victims are always the same. They come from poor countries where there is no job, unemployment is high, and these countries usually have a completely different level of costs than is usual in this country. We see this going on with us. This is happening in most other industrialised countries, and it is also happening largely in the poor part of the world. In our country, it can sometimes be difficult to draw the boundary between what we call social dumping and criminal activity. I'm not so sure if we should always draw that limit, either. But I believe that foreign workers who work in Norway, who are bound by employment contracts that violate Norwegian law, Norwegian labour regulations and conditions, and who are brought to silence under threats of professional prohibition, use of violence against their own family or themselves, other punishments, are part of what we might call modern slavery. Often it may be difficult to see what is going on in the labour market because greedy employers and employers are constantly finding new ways to avoid public searchlights. I understand that it has now become quite common in business to invoice labour rent directly from Norway to the rest of the world. In a current case from my own county, we learn that Romanian workers are rented to Norwegian companies via a rental agency in Lithuania. All billing takes place from Norway to Lithuania; all pay payments are made in Romania. Those who believe they are doing well in this business say that workers are fed off with a fraction of what is usual payment in Norway. There is no tax here, no pension, no social expenditure, anywhere. This business is now in place, and I am not sure that it is illegal or – rather – where the illegalities are committed. Norwegian authorities have made exemplary efforts to combat social dumping in this country. But there's not enough law and sanctions here to land. Here we have to look beyond borders, here we have to try very hard to follow the money. That's why we need to use the opportunities we have to tackle this problem internationally, get international rules that allow for cross-border control of money flows, and not least we need to support the ILO's work on decent working life worldwide. We do that in Norway. On the other hand, I think we have a job to do towards the EU, not least to make the Member States comply with the Community rules that apply, and to some extent to make the EU countries recognise that the problem itself exists. The representative Akhtar Chaudhry and several others have been involved in the paperless immigrants, those who cannot be returned anywhere, and who are today part of what we can call a black labour market in Norway. I'm not going to say so much about this except that I agree with the criticism that is directed at the state of things, and that something must be done to enable these people too to have a decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e486	The biggest interpellant debate this autumn has been a boost. It's rare in this hall to experience such a breadth and depth of engagement. Here, I think, the list of speakers has been fully drawn in relation to the regulatory time for interpellations, and it has been a strong commitment on the part of all parties. I would like to thank my co-representatives for that. It also promises well in relation to the work of following up the many good intentions that we together and each of us have expressed here today. Let me also say that the debate illustrates the important work that we as parliamentarians can do in these kinds of matters, here in the debate today, represented by the representative Sonja Mandt, who is at the heart of the Baltic Sea cooperation and in the work in Nordic context, the representative Karin S. Woldseth, who similarly engages widely in this matter in the Council of Europe, and the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, who is the chairman of the Anti-Slavage Company in Norway, which is internationally the world's oldest human rights organisation. I am pleased that we have received such good and clear answers from the Minister of Justice. There's a broad consensus that we're going to use the term "slavery" about what we're talking about here. The other concepts can be a little urban and polished, but it's slavery, modern slavery. It is very good that the Council of State has supported the objective of a slave-free Norway, and that he has also taken such an open and positive attitude towards new measures that have been proposed by me, as an Anti-Slavery day, as a self-rapporteur, such as, among other things. The Netherlands has good experience in, and knowledge building and capacity building in, the relevant agencies. We have also dealt with difficult issues such as paperless asylum-seekers, the asylum-children who disappear, what to do with begging, and what to do with organ sales and trade and surrogati. These are questions that we will have plenty of opportunity to come back to. But I think it's important in this context that we also challenge the media. The starting point for my interpellation was CNN's daunting project of putting the end of modern slavery as a theme for reporters and debate throughout a year. Which television channel will be the first Norwegian who dares to do something similar?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e497	To record the thread where the interpellant failed: which medium will be the first Norwegian to follow up directly one of the most important interpellation debates in the Stortinget? The initiative in this interpellation is very much about mobilizing all of us who sit here, whether we are from government or from big business. But it's also about getting the eyes up outside of this built for what this is all about. I fully agree with the description, which I think it was the representative of Davøy who gave, that it is quite paradoxical to see what kind of debate has taken place over the last few weeks in the wake of the discussion about sex purchase, and what kind of motives cause that especially adult men taking part in the debate, almost debatable and flirting with the whole issue. We don't need individual cases to highlight the seriousness of sex shopping, and the seriousness of the situation of these girls, whether they're here in Norway or in other countries. Les Herbjørg Wassmo's book "A glass of milk please"! There you get a vivid description of what this is all about. Then you can disagree on whether it should be a ban or a ban. I accept that. But the premise for going into the debate is very difficult for me to understand. I'm also of the opinion that this has been a very good debate, with a lot of good input that we're going to have with us. With regard to the criminal law trail, I believe that the representative Mandt and also the representative Octay Dahl point to something very important when it is said that you have to follow the money, and that it has to sweat financially. I have more faith in it than we are now taking a new round and raising the level of punishment. I have more faith in hitting the cash flow here – with first seizures from the police and then withdrawal. I also have more faith that we can get more cases up and increase the risk of discovery, instead of having a lot of political debate about where the penalty level should be. I don't rule it out, but I think it's much more important. As far as begging is concerned, I agree that many of those who are exposed to it are part of a human trafficking – obviously. But the ones we've criminalized are the ones who organize this beggar. Those who think it'll be warmer for the beggars if we criminalize them, I think I'll think again. In fact, for Norwegian legislation, a tradition of not criminalising victims has developed in recent years. That was also the idea behind the Sex Purchases Act. I guess that's worth holding on to. Thanks for the recordings! I'll take them with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e512	The debate on case 2 is thus closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e518	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e550	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-11.ana.ud1857e608	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
