ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e60	Honourable co-representatives! Former H.H.I.H.H.H.H.H.I.E.H.H.H.H.I.E.L.D.'s dead, 56 years old. With his passing away, we have lost a committed and enthusiastic community-builder. Right has lost one of its most faithful and tone-provoking politicians. His Kristian had an inconvenient optimism and glow of life, but was aware that this would be the end. He will be deeply missed by colleagues across party boundaries. We'll remember the smile, the humor and the care. Hans Kristian Hogsnes was a representative of the Stortinget from 1985 to 1989 and a permanent representative from 2001 to 2005. He served as Vice-Chairman of the Municipal Committee, was a delegate to the UN General Assembly and an alternate member of the Stortinge Delegation to the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee. All of us who knew Hans Kristian Hogsnes know that besides his passion for politics, he had a great commitment to the Church and the abstinence. In civil life, Hans Kristian Hogsnes was a journalist, and had many years of experience both as a journalist and as an editor. Before he came to Stortinget, he also had a long background as a national elected representative in Westfold, both in the county council, the local government and as rapporteur for two periods in Tønsberg. Hogsnes had a large circle of circles across all parties and communities and was well like everyone. With enthusiasm he drew out his knowledge and experience to all who asked for advice. After finishing his career at Stortinget, he started in the Højres Main Organisation and was a specialist advisor in municipal policy – to the great pleasure and benefit of the Right rapporteurs and group leaders across the country. Until recently, he also continued to work actively for both the abstinence movement and the congregation. Hans Kristian Hogsnes joined Young Right early and was already elected as 21-year-old municipal government representative in Sem Municipality. As a thank you for the long and faithful service of the party, Hogsnes was appointed honorary member of Tønsberg Right in the fall of 2010. We thank Hans Kristian Hogsnes for his inauguration and commitment to society around him and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e86	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Torstein Rudihagen from 3 February onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Espen Granberg Johnsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e104	Espen Granberg Johnsen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e109	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and myself, I would like to make a proposal on greater diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the welfare sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e114	The representative, Åge Starheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e117	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Harald T. Nesvik, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to initiate the construction of City Ship Tunnel based on the Large Tunnel option.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e122	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e126	On behalf of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Solvency Horne, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I will make a proposal to open the cave to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e131	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e147	There is an overall committee behind the amendments in the proposal. I just want to make it clear that there has been a date error on page 1 of the proposition, which has also gone further to the setting. It reads ‘in regulation 11 April 2001’, but the date shall be ‘4. November 2001»;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e154	I'm glad that an overall committee joins the proposals in the proposition. The grant advance is an important part of our welfare system by ensuring that children who do not live with both parents receive a certain minimum amount for their entertainment. The contribution to single dependants provides a subsidy to the child’s dependancy when the contribution from the other parent is delayed or absent. By raising the maximum advance income limit from NOK 170 900 to NOK 217 200, several low-income dependants receive the highest advance rate and thus an intrusive subsidy to a difficult economy. This gives a better social profile of the contribution advance. The same income limit, NOK 217 200, will also be a new limit to being exempted from the fee when determining and amending child benefits. Both limits are linked to the limit by which a single contributor is exempted from paying contributions. This will provide a more consistent, and also fairer, regulatory framework in the area of contributions in the relationship between contributors and beneficiaries. The proposals imply that the usual income testing rules will apply to children without a specified father, who are currently receiving a maximum advance until income reaches the threshold for receiving advances, now NOK 441 600. Thus, the income test is equal to that of all applicants for advance contributions. All changes are based on St.meld. No 19 for 2006–2007 on the evaluation of the Reform of Contributions, but income limits are raised more than proposed there. The amendments have been incorporated in the 2011 budget. However, the proposition means that the amendments are deferred from 1 January to 1 May 2011. This facilitates ICT changes so that proposals can be implemented mechanically and future control of income testing is simplified. The budgetary adjustments resulting from the deferral will be recorded in RNB 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e171	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2310]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e189	In the last years of the economic boom in Norway, Polish workers were an important group that saved us through the boom without significant pressure problems. Mostly more than 100,000 Polish workers were present in Norway. In addition to workers from our Nordic neighbouring countries and from the Baltic countries, this was a group that was absolutely necessary to master the challenges posed by the economic upturn for Norway, and without lasting problems — often reported after a high economic turnout — with a pressure on the economy. In addition, Polish workers at that time were also well adapted in Norwegian working life. They were highly valued by employers because they were known as very poor people with some very high levels of competence, not least in the workshop industry and various crafts and construction professions. Now it is the period of economic upturn, and by January 2010, i.e. one year ago, my last figures indicate that there were probably 52,000 Poles registered in Norway. They were, as I said, basically a resource-powerful group with a higher degree of economic self-drivingness than the population as a whole. Unemployment rose after the financial crisis to the worst in this group and is now around 10 p.m. According to my personal experience with the Polish environment, not least in the Oslo area, there is one problem: lack of language training as an obstacle to getting a job. But at the same time, it's my impression from both contact with this environment, and contact with the Nav offices, that Poles are perceived as a very work-motivated group. So it's people who want a job. But even though we are now in an economically good time again, not least in the sectors where they were highly represented earlier, they have problems getting a job. The background is that many of them came to Norway in a short time, in a boom, and had only been aiming to stay here for two to three years, send money home and then travel back again. Therefore, they did not place any emphasis on language training other than the one they received at work. It can be valuable enough, but perhaps not enough, especially if you are going to change the industry and the workplace. As an EEA citizen, they have neither a right nor a duty to Norwegian training. When the two–three years had passed, many realized that they had nothing to go back to. Although economic developments in Poland have been good, including through the financial crisis, in fact, unemployment remains significant. They had also built up a life in Norway and cultivated social rights. So many chose to stay. Today, we know that through the purchase of services in the private sector, Nav provides vocational adult education services. There is also something called the Qualification and Dissemination of jobseekers with Polish as their mother tongue. This is a scheme where language training is combined with practice in the workplace and where language training is specifically targeted at working life — and not a general language training — so it seems more motivating. My impression is that the pedagogy works well, but this is offered today, as far as I am aware, only in Oslo and Akershus. The problem is that demand is much higher than supply. So my challenge to the Council of State is this: I am aware that these are EEA citizens, and they do not have language training requirements. But getting people out of the unemployment line has a double gain. You save money, you get tax income. From a socio-economic point of view, it should be important to get this group out of the job queue as quickly as possible and over to work. Now, the economic situation is so that work is being offered increasingly, and these are people who, without exception, have professional experience from Norway. My challenge to the Council of State will therefore be: Could you not make language training a mandatory offer? It sounds like a contrast – an offer should not be mandatory – but the point here is that the person who is going to offer this is not doing it, and there are more who want to attend these courses than there are opportunities. I'm aware that you can't force people to go on the course, but I think that's a theoretical problem in this context. These are people who would like to receive language training, and who would like to go to work, but Nav does not have the power to offer this to a sufficient degree. So my question to the Council of State is whether this is not a group she wants to look at in particular, with a view to offering more organized language training to get them back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e202	I want to start by thanking Per-Kristian Foss for a very important question, which I think we all agree on is a challenge. The government wants to promote and strengthen the participation of migrant workers and their family members in working life and society. Language skills are important for this to be possible. The numbers' speech is ready. Immigrants play an important role in Norwegian working life. A study conducted by Perduro for NAV EURES among a sample of 2 500 private and public enterprises in 2010 shows that around 30 pst. by Norwegian enterprises, the labour force from Europe has been employed in the last year. Most Swedes, Poles and Germans are employed. This shows that Norway has been, is and will continue to be dependent on labour immigration. For this reason, it is particularly important that we as a society have the ability to take care of people from other countries who, for various reasons, fall outside the labour market, among others. through the necessary language training. However, let me first remind you that Norwegian training is a municipal responsibility. Pure Norwegian courses are initially not offered by the Employment and Welfare Act. However, Nav provides labour-oriented Norwegian training for specific groups, based on a labour-market assessment. This is done by the fact that some of the general labour market measures in the Labour and Welfare Act also have linguistic elements, preferably in combination with theoretical training and practice in the labour market. The ETA thus contributes to the necessary language training, including: through labour market training, specifically organised for foreign jobseekers, or through practical training or wage subsidies to practice Norwegian skills. This type of language training is usually less extensive and more practical and industry-oriented than the local Norwegian community training. A significant group of immigrants who are in the country today are Poles. Although Poland has managed well through the financial crisis, we still have a large net migration from Poland to Norway. This net immigration, combined with Polish workers in sectors that are particularly exposed to cyclical fluctuations, has led us to see an increase in the number of unemployed in this category in the last year, including the inter-pellant. According to figures from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, the number of full-time workers increased from 700 in September 2008 to 3,100 in September 2009. The number of fully available Poles has continued to increase since then, but at a slightly lower pace. By the end of 2010, about 4,700 Polish nationals were registered. If we compare, we see that Polish workers have had a percentage increase in unemployment in the last year that is significantly higher than for Norwegian citizens and workers from Nordic countries and Germany, but lower than for migrant workers from some other countries outside the EEA. This increase in unemployment has led to the participation of several Polish citizens in labour market measures. In September 2010, less than 400 participated in ordinary labour market measures compared with 100 in September 2008. Of course, it is not positive that more people become unemployed, but once they have actually become unemployed, it is positive that they are at least taking part in action. It appears that this is a group with particular benefit from measures and that Norwegian training can then be linked to these measures. A good example of this is found in NAV Oslo and NAV Akershus. In the first half of 2011, there is a separate offer of qualification and dissemination of jobseekers with Polish as their mother tongue. The course consists, among other things, of: knowledge of Norwegian working life, job search, language training and practice. The offer lasts for up to 26 weeks. Providing targeted and satisfactory Norwegian training remains a challenge. Norwegian training for migrant workers should be organised in a flexible and efficient way that promotes participation in the labour market and contributes to better resource use and a good integration of people who, in any case, want to stay in Norway. General community Norwegian training should target all migrant workers and should not be based on a specific nationality. Today, labour migrants from the EEA territory are not covered — which was also the subject of the inter-pellant — by the right and obligation to be trained in Norwegian and social knowledge. At the same time, the need for good Norwegian knowledge can be increased for this group when competition for jobs increases. In St.meld. No 18 for 2007–08, Labour immigration, so that the government needs measures that can enable migrant workers to become familiar with their duties and use their rights in line with the general population. Among other things, it was proposed to investigate the introduction of Norwegian training as a general offer for all migrant workers and their family members over 16 years of age. Such assessment is ongoing. When these assessments have taken some time, they are related to several factors. Firstly, in the past, immigrants from the EEA could receive free Norwegian training. This scheme was abolished in 2004 by the Government of Bondevik. Secondly, funding itself is more complicated than with other immigrant groups. Among other things, there may be a question of whether employers should not cover part of the expenditure. The organisation of training itself also needs to be adapted to the fact that most immigrants are working and that language training should not reduce the time they are working. I am concerned that the Labour and Welfare Act continues to assess the need to launch organised language services in the work on measures for immigrants at work. However, the government does not consider it appropriate to introduce such offers as mandatory measures under the Labour and Welfare Act on the basis of a specific nationality. Finally, I would just like to stress that we still have to assess what was in the message. The inter-pellant is also aware that there are some budgetary implications of introducing a mandatory offer. However, I share the view of the inter-pellant that this is a group to be particularly aware of, and that it is important that Nav, as Nav does, always consider the integration of Norwegian training, and in particular practical training, in the context of work measures for Poles. I also agree that consideration should be given to the wider application of this offer. Because I have been informed that it is mainly, at least what has been mapped, in Oslo and Akershus. I fully agree that you have to see if you can make this offer a little wider.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e234	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I totally agree with 90 pst. by the article, which describes the situation. It is good that we agree. I would like to add that the labour-oriented Norwegian training also provides training in Norwegian labour rights and Norwegian working culture. It's an important part for this group. I don't think we're going to conceal that this group too has been exposed to some unworthy work because they don't know about their rights. The courses that Nav organises — and that is part of Nav's duties as well — shall disclose rights, laws and regulations in Norwegian working life. That is why I think this is important in addition to language training. I agree that there is no need for general Norwegian training for all EEA citizens, but this group is special, inter alia. because it is not competent in the important languages such as French, German and English, which some nordic people control. Polish is respectfully reporting a language that very few nordic people master. So their opportunities in the labour market, considering that they're a large group, are special, especially when the council also mentions German workers. I am a little disappointed that the Council of State says that she will not make this offer mandatory. But I choose to see the positive in the last time she said, that she will consider making the offer wider. I am fully aware that it has budgetary implications to offer this offer through more Nav offices than in Oslo and Akershus. But there is a need beyond Oslo and Akershus. Therefore, I think the Council of State should consider this in relation to the revised budget and/or consider it an opportunity to move resources from one area to another, and with a work justification, not on the basis of the rights of special peoples or groups of people, but on the basis of the fact that this group already has experience in working life in Norway, and they are increasingly sought, while others are often preferred because they have language skills that the Polish do not have. So it's a very low threshold to get these into the labour market. Therefore, I believe that the Council of State should look at both the possibilities of redeploying within the large sums already in action, and also the possibilities of increasing when more Nav offices are asking for this type of course. I have not heard any professional criticism from Nav about that kind of course, because they are labour-motivating and the success rate is very high.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e245	Thank you again, and thank you for agreeing on 90 pst. by my post, which is a description of reality. And that's important, because I fully agree that this is a very important group. I think that some of the background for having that concentration of course related to Oslo and Akershus is that it's where you have most Polish workers. This, of course, does not preclude this being an important offer also elsewhere in the country. It is not the case that there is no offer elsewhere in the country. Nav shall make an individual assessment of actions for persons at all times to see if Norwegian training can be part of that action. Then we agree that it is desirable to look at the extent to which this offer can be expanded even more, but that it is also a resource issue, and that it seems reasonable to use resources on this. Finally, I would just like to say, as I said, that the government has an assessment of whether, on a more general basis, we should contribute to increasing Norwegian knowledge – I referred to St.meld. No 18 for 2007–08 — among immigrant groups. I fully agree that it might make sense not just to talk about it in general, but for example. look at this in conjunction with some immigrant groups, and in this case Poles. But this is something we have to assess, for example. because there is also an expense in this that is assessed against other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e256	Thanks to the interpellant for taking on an important theme. I think we can be very so some people that language is important. Language is the ‘key’ to participation in the labour market and to create good social relations both outside and in the labour market. That a worker learns language, is a be or not, not only in the workplace, but also whether to participate in society in general. We have enough of the opposite evidence that lack of language skills excludes many from just taking part in the world of work. As you know, it is to be able to communicate in the language of the country you come to, a common denominator to be well integrated, while at the same time being able to feel mastery by making yourself understood. Employers must be involved in facilitating the necessary languages in connection with the addition of Polish as well as other foreign workers. Employer has a great responsibility to be sure that the recruiter is understood and can understand in all contexts, not just in everyday life. It is probably almost only Swedish and Danish that are slipping straight into place without so much language teaching, which may also lead to large labour migration from Sweden, and it therefore seems easier for this group than for others. Within some areas, not being able to speak the language can almost be about life and death, to put it a little on the verge. This is about quality assurance of the work to be done and of what to do. Within a number of professional groups, good language skills are particularly important because of the safety of the workplace. It has, among other things, in the health system, serious situations arose that could have been avoided if one could have spoken. According to the Health Authority, there is an increase in such cases, where one sees that communication between actors and patients has fatal consequences. The same applies to construction sites where there are many Polish workers. This has to be done by a few people. Language training must be given an even greater focus. It is decisive that not only Nav is involved as a driving force in this; other actors too must be on the path. Today, the municipalities organise Norwegian courses, but these are not free of charge for EU and EEA citizens, asking how many employers are willing to pay for this. Then added one who skips courses in front of others who would actually have a chance on the basis of qualifications. You may need to look at this code and open it up more closely, so that they are more sought after by both employers and employees. Other incentives may come into the picture for employers who want to bet on those who are good – and best – in the job they should have, even if the language is inadequate, but that one can do something about it without misrepresenting others who have the language intact but who are not qualified. Of course, it should be such that one is responsible for his own learning, but then it must be possible for this to be easily accessible, without too much bureaucracy. Then it is quick to go to non-serious employers and take this seriously. And it's the individual and society that's losing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e271	There is an important issue addressed by the inter-pellant, especially because in all the work on immigration and integration policies, we have placed a great deal of emphasis on qualification in recent years. The introduction programme, with Norwegian training and community knowledge training, has been widely accepted politically since the introduction of these schemes by Erna Solberg. What, of course, is the challenge for EEA citizens is that they are not seen as immigrants in this context. They are here as workers, they have rights and duties in the workplace, and they have no focus on themselves that is – I was saying – particularly immigration policy or integration policy. It's a challenge. We should have a debate in this country on what we want to use this workforce for, and how we want to qualify this workforce in order for it to function even better in Norwegian society. This is precisely what both the Council of State and the Per-Christian Foss have been about, important, namely vocational language training, to be able to use a difficult situation as an unemployed person to qualify to be even stronger in the labour market. So I hope that the Council of State, and the other government councils responsible for this with integration and immigration policies, look closely at this situation, because the unemployment statistics of November 2010 show that among immigrants there is only one group with higher unemployment than EEA citizens from Eastern Europe, and there are African immigrants, who have 13 pst. unemployment, while east European EEA citizens have 8,6 pst. When we know that this is a very large group, so there are 5,500 people we're talking about, it's a pretty powerful waste of society's resources to give them the social security they obviously deserve, without giving them – and then I'm talking about outside Oslo and Akershus; we have a lot of Polish guest workers, to say it like this, in both Buskerud and Westfold, in the West and in North Norway – this language training. It'll kind of waste. I think it would be a very positive step if, in a broader context, we also start to look at EEA citizens, and for the part both East and West Europeans, who come to Norway for jobs in good times, and who nevertheless choose to stay in Norway when they lose their job: how do we get these back to work faster? Then there's one key, and that's Norwegian training. Then, of course, one shall adapt the legislation that is, so that one does not break the prerequisites for receiving unemployment benefits. But there are possibilities, and Nav in Oslo and Akershus shows that there are possibilities. Then I kind of want to turn the Council's point a little bit on my head and say, Can we afford not to? This is such an important resource for Norway. We need labour. Now there are once again rise times in the yard industry and in the construction industry – there are at least things going on. We know that there are major needs in the health and care sector. Getting qualified Eastern European, or Western European, EEA citizens with good Norwegian knowledge into working life should be a common objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e280	There has been a lot of discussion lately about the so-called Nordic welfare model, sometimes also referred to as the Norwegian – but when we are abroad, we tend to talk about the Nordic, which I agree with. I am committed to making good integration of work immigrants also a side to the Nordic welfare model. It is countries in the world that have clearly integrated better than we have done in the Nordic region so far – I think, for example. on land such as Australia and New Zealand, with large immigrant groups. So we have something to learn, but we're on the right track. This is just a tab of this issue, but I hope that the Council of State shares this ambition that the working line must also be what goes through here, because there is a broad political consensus in the Stortinget. I would then encourage the Council of State, when she says that she has this assessment, not to spend too long on this assessment, and to look at both the budgetary opportunities offered by the revised budget and the opportunities offered by the redeployment — or regrouping — of the action resources. The Council of State also mentioned in its first statement that the employer has a responsibility. Yes, I agree that this may be an opportunity, but you should be aware that some large employers – groups – are already doing this work for their own account and with great luck. I know that, among other things, links such as the Bonnpreis and IKEA have driven recruitment to their businesses by offering such courses and subsequent employment. They are very satisfied with this, but you can't just bet on employers, because then you just hit the big ones in the world of work. The thousands of small businesses will not have the resources to go into this arrangement. However, the Council of State could consider whether, as part of looking at the rational use of resources, she could provide a grant to employers who, or in cooperation with others, would arrange courses, so that it was not just a Nav responsibility — for example. where conditions are not as large and as extensive as Oslo and Akershus. However, there is good evidence that there is a need beyond Oslo and Akershus also for this type of labour market action, language training with a work profile, where the goal is through language training and other forms of training to make him better fit to get a job — and that very quickly. There is a need, as also the last speaker mentioned, far beyond Oslo and Akershus, for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e291	Once again, I thank you for an important debate. I can assure you that this government and the undersigned are concerned about the work line, and we are very concerned about – that is an important point, which the interpellant was also concerned about – that through Norwegian knowledge this group of workers is also getting a better knowledge of their rights and duties in Norwegian society. It's very important and good. This government is also very concerned about social dumping. We see that in the areas where you know about your rights, the degree of organisation also increases, and that is a good thing for Norwegian working life and for the entire Norwegian model. Then we must not pretend that this is not being done today. I just want to say that we have many examples from Oslo and Akershus, but that this is also done around the country. I agree that when it competes with other measures, we need to look at whether there is a greater need within this group. The representatives mentioned pay subsidies. That's something that's also being practiced today. In existing schemes with measures, it is also possible to grant grants – not wage subsidies – to the employer to contribute to Norwegian training. I just want to end by saying that we have a more general assessment of whether there is a need for our own training related to Poland as a group. This is an incredibly important resource for Norway over time. It is not necessarily just about the individual worker, but they have spouses, there are families, and we know that we need labour in Norway in the years to come. I am absolutely concerned about this and consider the various measures that have emerged, which I myself have also presented, and which we are working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e302	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e318	Cultural policy was the first spring of cooperation between the red-green parties. In March 2004, the Arbeiderpartiet, SV and the Zenterpartiet Kulturløftet launched the project in response to the Bondevik government’s cultural announcement. The successful project inspired further red-green cooperation. Following the 2005 elections, the cultural promise was an important point in the policy of the new red-green government. The red-green cultural promise is an ambition for Norway to become a leading cultural nation. We have many European nations to go after. But the great source of inspiration is France, which, under the socialist Minister of Culture Jack Lange in the 1980s, revitalized French cultural policy. This occurred through a considerable increase in the resources for the production and distribution of artists and cultural institutions, the construction of new large cultural buildings and the support of parts of the cultural industry with which the country had previously not wanted to engage, such as film, record production and publishing. Over the course of a few years, they have doubled the cultural effort in the cultural budget. Our cultural promise has clear parallels to the French promise of the 1980s. Like them, we have had a huge increase in appropriations. Over the course of five years, we've increased the appropriations from 5 billion. DKK to over 8 billion. kr. We have built and built new, large cultural institutions, such as in Stavanger with a new culture house, in Kristiansand with a theatre and concert hall and in Trondheim with Rockheim, and in a few years the capital will have another great and modern cultural institution with the new National Museum. Norwegian film has had powerful additions. Never have more Norwegian films been launched than in this year to a Norwegian audience watching more Norwegian films than ever before. The equivalency of musical genres has been an important objective of a red-green cultural policy. Jazz, rock and folk music have never experienced a similar bet before. It's an economic uplift, but most of all it's a status lift, a signal that no one's supposed to be holding the hat. The same can be said of dance art, which has finally received the attention it deserves. The dance scene itself has been realised and its own grant scheme for free dance groups is in place. Like Jack Lange and the French socialists who were concerned with cultural diversity and the democratization of culture, we also want to ensure this. Therefore, former Minister of Culture Trond Giske took the initiative for a year of diversity – this to great resistance from the opposition and in particular from the Progress Party. The fact is that until today, Mangfolds-Norway has had better conditions of growth in the police, banking or defence than in cultural life – despite the fact that cultural workers view themselves as more liberal, open and immigration-tolerant than the rest of the population. Throughout the Year of Mangfold, it has been tried to launch processes that can help to make cultural diversity a significant and horizontal feature of Norwegian cultural policy and help to change attitudes and practices. It's made by the opposition as a matter of course that culture is a budget winner and that they would have done the same thing. I don't think so. Never before has a Minister of Culture won the budget battle year after year in strong competition with health, culture and school. This happens because we have a government that clearly prioritizes culture in a tough fight over the budget heads. It is not impressive to add a few extra cents to the budget procedure in Stortinget. The impressive thing is to have a Minister of Culture who every year brings forward increases of over half a billion dollars. There is no automation in it, but it is a political ambition that the government has, that culture should be in the policy elite division. In the capital press, so-called intellectual cultural scientists have criticized the red-green government for being a money machine exposed to ideological will. Is it exposed to ideological will when the government ensures the breadth and diversity of literature policy and will not let market forces control the publication of books? Is it exposed to ideological will when we make a massive effort on culture to give people more and better cultural experiences as a counterbalance to all the material values to which you are exposed? Is it bare of ideological will when we encourage a little Sami built to develop its festival by giving it node status? The answer is obviously no. It might have been interesting to know if it's ideologically wrong to give rock and rhythmic music increased status, that more dancers can now live by their art, or that North Norway has got its own symphony orchestra. I think theater director Ellen Horn says it very striking in the class struggle on Tuesday 1 February: ‘Swedish and Danish cultural workers experience cold, cut and commercialisation. The Governing Council of the neighbouring countries is making increased demands on the performance of cultural institutions. While we here in Norway are most concerned with criticising the red-green cultural policy — which is the most offensive in Europe.’ She adds: ‘The challenge facing Norwegian cultural policy today is not increased appropriations for cultural institutions. It's the right-wing ghost.' Culture policy is obviously one of the areas where there can be the greatest change in whether we get a dark blue government. One thing is that the Progress Party wants billions of dollars in the appropriations, but it is so serious that they want to remove the state regulations that ensure, among other things. Norwegian language and literature. Our vision is that in ten years we will contribute to Norway becoming a leading cultural nation. And we're on our way. On the way, however, it is important to be maritime critical of the job we have done, and ask ourselves, ‘ Do we use the money properly?’ We've systematically followed up the 15 points of the Cultural Promise I, and so do we now with the Cultural Promise II. From day one, we have been concerned that when so much money is spent in the sector, we need to look at structures at the same time and avoid building up parallel cultural bureaucracies. Therefore, a number of reorganisations and changes have been made to social security schemes. In the future, even more geographical distribution of cultural crowns will be important. We now have good and professional national cultural institutions in most areas. It gives us the opportunity and the space for action to turn the bet into the country, into small institutions and free groups. It's about film, opera, theater and music. Our museums are now well spread geographically, but many lack money to set up good exhibitions and not least to keep the values for the afterlife. We believe that when the state spends so much money on culture, it is important that as much of the population as possible experience art and culture. The health survey from Nord-Trundelag shows that proximity to cultural institutions is a prerequisite for their use. Large consumers of culture live in small and large cities. Recently I was told a story about two boys from Sogn and Fjordane who one morning left a letter on the kitchen table at home, scolded the school and went to Bergen. In the letter they explained that the reason for the skull was that they were going to the cinema in Bergen to see Harry Potter, and that such an important film as Harry Potter had to be seen on the large canvas and not at home in the small urban cinema. I mean this story is a good description of what victims many in District Norway have to do to get cultural experiences. Our ambition is that more people will gain easier access through more dissemination across the country. We're also busy reaching out to more groups. This is criticised by the cultural critics, who believe we control culture too much. We actually believe that culture should not be reserved for rich people with the right postal address. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State will present a big message on the cushioning of social differences in the field of culture. The cultural promise is not only about money, but also about giving cultural life greater recognition and status, and also clarifying public responsibility for the cultural sector, as has been established by the new Culture Act. The aim is to ensure the diversity of cultural activities and services available to all. The cultural promise is Norway’s largest cultural effort ever. Our goal is that it's something we're going to continue in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e385	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this important matter in the storeroom. We've now completed the first part of a cultural promise, and we have something left. I think it's important, as the interpellant said, that we have a critical approach to how we're going to spend the money to fulfill the last part of the cultural promise. It is clear that in a period when we are increasing the cultural budgets very much and want to get more culture out to the whole country, we need to be aware that the money is going to go to artistic production and that more people are going to have access to culture. In 2005, the Red-Greens were elected to implement a cultural promise until 2014. It was a very ambitious goal, and when this was discussed in the main hall in 2004, we were criticized by today's opposition for being totally unrealistic. But we've shamed these accusations, and we've clearly implemented a historic cultural promise that I haven't seen in other countries in the same period. As the inter-pellant refers to, the focus on culture and volunteering has for the first time become as committed and firm as the investment in other areas. Our government is talking about the cultural promise, the long-term plan of defence and the national transport plan in the same breath. It has become a commitment. Since 2005, the cultural initiative of the State budget has increased by 3.3 billion. kr. This means that the share of cultural appropriations in government expenditure has increased from 0.78 p.m., as was the case in the last budget of the Bondevik government, to 0.91 p.m. in 2011. The escalation has been so great that it has given room for a very wide bet to show that all parts of cultural life are part of the cultural promise. All art forms and genres are included. Some have criticised us for being unprofiled because we have raised the whole cultural field – but the purpose of the cultural promise has been to raise the whole cultural life. That is why I am proud that all art forms and genres have been included. There have been 23 large-scale notifications during this period that have highlighted sector-specific challenges and solutions in different parts of cultural life. To some extent, organisational instruments have also been used, such as: museum reform and transformation of Norwegian Cultural Council. I think this is also true, because when we spend more money on culture, we have to settle with the double administration within cultural life. It has not always been easy to get support from the opposition when we wanted to prevent double administration from going to art and culture. Here the opposition has demonstrated a great degree of conservatism when we wanted to carry out organizational action in the field of culture. There is no doubt that the government's offensive initiative in the context of the cultural promise has led to an increased level of activity and a greater diversity of cultural expressions. The film area is a very good example of this. Both the quality and the number of films are increasing steadily. For the last three years, Norwegian film has had a market share of over 20 pst. We have to go back to Flåklypa in the 1970s to see something similar. The market share in 2010 was the largest ever. When this government took over in 2005, the proportion was slightly above 12 pst. There has been a formidable increase. It is of cultural policy importance, but also of language policy importance. With 40 new films this year, we have overfilled the target of 25 Norwegian films this year. Now we want to focus more on quality. There will be scope for greater variation in production budgets so that some larger and more costly productions can be made. In addition, we will give more priority to the TV drama, which reaches out to people to the greatest extent. In addition to the strong commitment to professional cultural life, volunteering has been given a boost. Voluntaryness is the backbone of local cultural life, and the commitment to volunteering in the 2011 state budget is the greatest ever. The Government's objective is to increase the grant of VAT compensation to voluntary organisations to 1.2 billion. kr in 2014. In addition, grants to Freefonds and volunteer centres increased by nearly 100 million. kr during this period of government. The Norwegian cultural schools are unique in the international context, and if we now talk to some of our leading artists, they can all tell that they have a background – most of them, at least – from the cultural school. Since 2005, the number of students in cultural schools has increased significantly, but we still have some challenges. Among other things, there are still long waiting lists, and there is social bias in recruitment. That means we're missing out on many talents, because artistic talent doesn't depend on parents' income. If we can't recruit wider, there's a lot of artistic talent we can't see. Over the Ministry of Knowledge budget, EUR 40 million has been set for 2011. kr to model trials and development measures where municipalities, organisations and institutions are joining forces to facilitate a more diverse cultural school offer. We have also increased the appropriations for music purposes. In total, music has increased by 483 million. kr. This leads to several concert experiences all over Norway. As a result, many artists are given the opportunity to launch internationally. That means that more people get to visit our symphony orchestras and our opera. It's given results. We have increased the appropriations for music purposes by 80 pst. That's a lot. Visual art – architecture and design – is one of the government's bet areas, and we're not going to launch too much time for the first announcement of visual art. Then we've increased the allocation to the museums. It is that the historical interest among people is increasing. As we can take in more and more global cultural expressions, we may become even more concerned with our roots. It's increased by 80 pst. since 2005. This allows us to take care of many old buildings, and that children and young people can experience our museums in a completely different way. And we've got new museums, for example. Rockheim, which allows us to experience music history in a completely different way than before. The cultural promise has raised the status of culture as a social and policy area and contributes to making art and culture more accessible to more and more people, both as participants and as an audience. But there's still, as the interpellant was about, a big difference in culture. It depends to a large extent on the level of education and income. Low income families and persons with a minority background and persons with disabilities are under-represented in most arts and volunteering activities. At the same time, we know, as the interpellant was about, that there is a great connection between the use of culture and personal health and well-being. In view of this, the government has started work on a big message on culture, inclusion and participation. These are discussions that have taken place, for example: The United Kingdom over several years, and it is time that we also take that discussion in Norway. Now we spend more money on culture – now we also have to make sure that the culture that is produced reaches even more. Norwegian cultural life has had a formidable economic upswing and increased status under this government. We all see that this has produced results in terms of higher activity levels and more diverse cultural life. I'm concerned about finding out what effect this has on cultural life and on society as a whole. I therefore think it is natural to carry out an overall analysis of what has been achieved and what challenges await us. Therefore, an investigation will be carried out to address developments in Norwegian cultural policy during the period covered by the last few years. The investigation will also serve as a basis for key priorities in Norwegian cultural policy after 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e419	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and solid review of what has been the cultural promise of the Red-Green Government, and I also think it is very nice that the Council of State is so open to looking at new choices, and on how to proceed. It's very important when you spend as much money as we've done on culture, that we're critical of how the money is spent, and whether we achieve what we have as ambition with such a great use of money. So over a decade, we're going to have to renovate Norwegian cultural life in a way that's never happened in Norway before. We already see that Culture Norway is completely different today than it was just six, seven years ago. We see that there is more debate about culture in Norwegian society. We see that there has become more interest in politics, not least for culture, both central and external. But perhaps the most important thing is that cultural life has become part of the democratic political processes. In the past, cultural workers were far more in control of their hands and had no opportunity to influence their situation and their ability to influence politically what they wanted. We've been accused by the capital press, as the council also mentioned, of being a little bit unprofiled in the cultural promise. But the point is that there was a need to upgrade the entire sector. There was a lot of need, and there's still a lot of need. There are many good projects around Norway that should certainly have received much more attention and support than they are today. We also see a little bit of the point of the cultural promise, that in connection with the cultural promise II, we had extensive consultation with the entire industry where the industry was given the impression of what is to be included in the cultural promise II. They were quite clear that the breadth was important, and that all parts of the cultural life must have the opportunity to participate in the cultural promise. That's why it's important for the whole industry, and it's not unprofiled when we kind of raise the whole sector. So, one last point that I think we should be very attentive to, and that I challenge the Council of State. Seven out of ten cultural crowns are still going to Oslo. The cultural sector is perhaps one of the most centralised sectors. We've been trying to do something about it, but the big challenge is, in the years to come, how are we going to be able to turn more of the cultural crowns out into the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e428	Interpellant travels an important discussion about how we can spread culture around the whole of Norway. That is exactly why I have started an investigation into how we are going to spend the money on the Riks Concerts in the future. The National Concerts were established in 1967. Then they drove around with tour buses, jet crews, loudspeakers and microphones to gyms to hold concerts all over Norway. Today we see that the different communities have houses. They have equipment. They have a much more diverse cultural life than before. Then we have to see if there's a smarter way to spend cultural money, which is going to give more concert experiences throughout Norway than spending as much money on 300 public concerts, which go to cities to a great extent. Of the 300 National Concerts, 30 went to Oslo. Oslo is already that town in the Nordic region with very, very many concerts. There are more concerts in Oslo than it is in Stockholm, than it is in Copenhagen. Many of the students who now leave the hall because they have to, probably not because they don't want to listen to us, because this is a very interesting discussion, get to experience the cultural school bag. It travels musicians all over Norway. How can we take advantage of the fact that we have musicians on the road, that we have cultural workers on the road, that we have theatre people on the road who can visit smaller communities that may never be visited by our national cultural institutions. So I think we have a huge challenge in getting school bag productions all over Norway. It's an important discussion. A discussion on the dissemination of cultural resources is also about establishing more institutions outside Oslo. The North Norwegian Symphony Orchestra is a very good example that we believe that the establishment of institutions outside Oslo provides a smoother use of cultural resources. Rockheim was a project for which many were skeptical – in their time it was controversial. But it's become a fantastic national rock museum, and people are looking to this museum very much. Establishing institutions outside Oslo is important for the dissemination of cultural resources. Another example is the regional film centres that have received large increases in recent years. We see that this has had a desired effect. A few years ago, there were a lot of films that were made on the basis of Grünerløkka – it's a great place. But in recent years we have seen an increase in films that are also made elsewhere in Norway. So the discussion about the geographical distribution of cultural resources is an important discussion that we absolutely must take seriously when we are going to carry out the last part of this cultural promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e439	We are in an amazing age of great personal freedom, with incredible opportunities for each individual. While most countries around us have to tighten up their budgets and search with lights and lights where they can cut, Norway is in a situation where we can still have a cultural promise, build on the good work done in that sector, and actually expand the budgets. Over the last few years, we have seen an incredible boom in the cultural sector among professionals and amateurs. It has given us amazing experiences, new exciting things to experience all over the country. Soon every branch in this country has its own game, its own musicians, its own theatre people. It blooms all over the country. We also see it internationally, that Norway is becoming more and more prominent. On the music front we see that more and more Norwegian artists are doing great and good abroad, and on the film front we see that Norwegian films are reaping international recognition. It's becoming a good environment that it's important to continue processing, and we're going to back it up. We have briefly experienced and are within a golden age for Norwegian culture. This is important for national construction in Norway. Culture has always been important as part of national construction, and the cultural promise has contributed to pride, to identity, to community. It will be important for the further nation-building that we are able to understand the time we live in. The well-known scientist Richard Florida has a summary of what characterises the regions that have succeeded best in the world, and there are three things they have put into: technology, tolerance and talent. The regions that attract the creative class will be increasingly successful in modern world society – and attracting the creative class, others will come after it. But it's also important at the individual level. We've seen an example of a shy boy who never said one word in a congregation, who is now taking theater education in the United States. We've seen examples of teachers who don't recognize their students, who were often troubled in class hours, who bloom and get a whole new experience, a whole new way of expressing themselves just to him or she gets a lump of clay between their hands. We've set an example of saving dents that you didn't get into bed in the evening without being a lot of employees, and that with song and music calm down and feel safe, experience dignity. In the high capitalist age in which we live, which creates a high and high-speed society, there will be great demands for internal strength, self-confidence, self-esteem. We know that participation in meaningful activity has a great effect on health and the feeling of your own health. We've seen how it sparkles in children's eyes that experience mastering. We have heard that many repeaters are reported around the elderly institutions after there has been a concert there. Studies of the significance of the song clearly show that it has a great effect on both mental and physical health. Swedish studies show that large consumers of health services are small consumers of cultural services and that large consumers of cultural services are small consumers of health services. When we see the importance of culture, it must be a central political goal in the years to come to spread culture, both geographically and socio-culturally. So in addition to further processing and investing in quality, it'll be important to make sure that it doesn't just become more to those who already experience a lot of culture, but that it can benefit many more. In this way, I am very pleased with what the Council of State says in relation to the cultural schools. It is also important to look at how culture can be an important tool for solving other welfare tasks. It will be important for the nation-building, for our common identity, memory and for our community. It is important for Norway’s competitiveness internationally and not least for each of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e456	‘Elite of culture, apparatus of power; the sacred governing body of state councils. Versatile logbing, kissing, clapping and clamping, the free culture, do not forget it. the voice of freedom from North Cape to the south; now we must ensure that culture does not die!’ What is a good culture? What is culture? Who's on the fasit? Is that the interpellant? Is that the elite in Oslo? Is it the department, or is it the Workers' Party? How do we talk about culture? Many people view culture as art, and in a narrow sense are related to orchestras, theaters, films and books. Culture shall be a blood vessel for the whole of Culture Norway and around human actions, such as mentality and ways of interpreting reality. In the 1970s, the definition was extended to include volunteering and amateur culture. That's good, and we see that it carries fruit that day, and we see that this is spread all over the country. A large municipal cultural sector was also established, and this may be called into question, but at least it is spreading across the country. This is something we should have addressed in a discussion. The municipalities are the foundation of Culture-Norway through choirs, corps, cultural schools and libraries. I do not mean the municipalities physically, but those who live in the municipalities. There is probably also a good reason to count the media and parts of research and higher education as part of the cultural definition. Is that good? Is this something we should discuss? For these institutions provide a series of interpretations of reality that shape us. Should culture be governed? Should culture be governed by a sub-committee in the Workers' Party or by the Ministry of Culture in Oslo? The narrow and broad cultural definition operates side by side. None of them have won hegemony or dominance, but the tension between them is constantly emerging, not least in discussions about art and culture, which have value in itself, versus culture as an instrument for meeting other societal challenges. Is this something we should have discussed today? With such a comprehensive cultural concept, it is up to the Ministry of Culture and the task of the socialists to distinguish well and poorly in each area of culture. Is this good? Is this something we should discuss? Cultural life and the socialists refuse to take up the tough discussions about what quality and innovation must mean for culture. Perhaps you refuse because such a debate approaches the narrower concept of culture where a lot falls by. But this is important, and we should discuss this. In the cultural struggle of the Progress Party, we are engaged in forward-looking, modern and active cultural policies, where everyone, all of Norway, is to participate in and not be governed by the Ministry of Oslo or by a sub-committee in the Workers' Party. I'm asking for something here today. It is the discussion of literature, the future of literature in Norway. When the government and the socialists have been so ready to say no to the desire for VAT exemption on e-books, I think it's a betrayal of literature. It is a great betrayal of the Norwegian language. How are we going to get uprooted about this? We want to equate literature; we want to equate audiobooks and paperbooks with the new electronic books. We now see that those who have received the iPad download foreign books as often as they can, and once they have finished one book, they press a button and get another straight in on the iPad. This development will not be part of the government or department. The Ministry of Finance is also involved there. I'm sorry it's those who are supposed to be running literature and cultural policy. Nor has it been mentioned what to do with the old buildings in Oslo from which we move, the National Gallery – there we also have to take responsibility, and we have to take responsibility for the Viking ships on Bygdøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e490	I listened to the representative Gjul's interpellation with great interest. Unfortunately, the expectation was not fully met. I think of the interpellation as a good play for a cultural policy debate, but it was probably marked by a representation of the Workers' Party as the cultural party, and that the opposition was exposed to both the one and the other. I noticed that the word 'blot' went on again, and I'll come back to that. I dare remember that culture requires freedom. Freedom and culture are two sides of the same coin. Well, as important as the state-funded, a little subtle culture that depends on getting its resources from the public is that we need a free and independent culture. History shows that culture has been a necessary historical corrigendum to political authorities. I also dare to remind you that culture is far older than cultural policy. I'm also a little skeptical about the expanded cultural concept, which has actually also defined corporate football as culture. Then back to the words 'the Blot for' that the representative Gjul used. It's possible it's a little unparliamentary expression, but it's not my right to point it out, and I choose to use the same expression. Where was the Workers' Party, and why was the Workers' Party so naked for commitment to a national encyclopedia, which we have had for so many years, and which is so important to the nation's memory, both for what has been, and to update what is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e501	The President may assure the representative of Elves that the ‘blot’ is not an unparliamentary expression, either when the representative or the inter-pellant uses it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e504	I would like to support those who have spoken praises for the cultural promise in this Chamber. It's like cultural debates often generate party speeches and big words, but I'm going to dry to claim that we also put money behind the laws. So we buy the opportunity to use them. As the representative Mr Stokkan-Grande had in mind, all our neighbouring countries discussed last autumn where they would cut their budgets. It was a quite unique situation that we in Norway at that time could actually increase our cultural budget. I think the opposition's criticism that the cultural promise is unprofiled is hollow. That's the stupidest criticism I've ever heard. This is where we've lifted vocals. We have increased accessibility. We've given the volunteer a boost. It is not without a profile; it is a good cultural policy. It is cultural policy that is about culture being a well-being that everyone in society should have the right to. To the representative Thomsen, I would like to say that we have just lifted the vocals that were previously not defined as fine culture, for example. Rock and revision. Since no one likes anyone who just talks about what they've done, I'm going to say something about what should be done in the future. Fortunately, this is a policy area that we'll never finish. I think we need a stronger commitment to the cultural school. We have had good profile projects going on, and now we have to make sure that we get a better offer in place for all children. Because it's true, as the Minister of Culture says, that talent is evenly distributed among the population. That's why it's not just fair, it's also wise to give all children an opportunity to practice art themselves. What makes the cultural schools special is that they give students the opportunity to express their own art, to practice their own art and to participate. It makes them a very valuable tool. Another challenge is the living conditions of artists. It was said that distress taught the naked artist to drive the bus. More should have the opportunity to live by their art in Norway. We have to look at the purchasing systems. We need to look at scholarships. That artists make art and do not drive buses, gives better art and better quality of art. Otherwise, I would like to support Mr Gjul's contribution on the centralisation of the sector. I believe that regional film will be an important instrument in the future, and that we need to put more effort into it. It's also part of the Cultural Promise II. Summary: Culture is a well-being, the country is long-term, and I hope for continued growth in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e519	In 2005, today’s government parties opted for a cultural promise to be made. We had an offensive measure of that 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes by 2014. From 0.78 p.m. in the last draft budget of the Bondevik Government, we are now up to 0.91 p.m. in 2011. Culture has been seriously promoted and prioritised in politics during this government. Culture has been given priority every year and has been one of the budget winners, and since 2005, the cultural initiative of the State budget has increased by 3.3 billion. kr. There is no doubt that the government's offensive initiative in culture has raised the framework and raised the cultural expression and the broad field. We're going to develop Norway into a leading cultural nation that focuses on culture in all parts of society. This government has launched a historic shift in its commitment to art, culture and volunteering, both through the issues promoted in the UK, and not least by following the promises and efforts promised in 2005. But the cultural promise is not just about money. It is about giving cultural life and volunteering greater recognition and increased status. We have ambitions to continue developing Norway as a cultural nation and continue to raise the status of this field. Art and culture also have great self-esteem. While focusing on culture, it has become important for other societal goals such as business development, jobs, integration and inclusion, health, learning and creativity. That is not least what we see in the health study in Nord-Trøndelag, which has found a link between involvement in cultural life and how to experience one's own health. A lot is done, but we also have a way ahead. If I'm going to highlight some of the challenges we face, I'm going to mention in particular the challenge we have in building strong regional environments and getting a more balanced distribution of funds. Strong regional competence environment contributes to raising Norway as a cultural nation and makes it even more possible for us to assert ourselves internationally. Here we have, for example: Tindved Kulturhage in Verdal set a good example when they, together with the theatre education at the University of Northern Trøndelag, have been able to challenge many of the established environments outside the capital and participate in creating a new environment. In order for us to have the diversity we want in Culture Norway, we need to continue our efforts to connect professionals and amateurs. We need to facilitate that even more professional cultural practitioners can find developing environments outside the capital. But then we also have to look at other uses of the funds. We need to look at what kind of institutions we want to raise, and we need to look at how we can contribute to the establishment of future institutions outside the capital. We need to be willing to decentralise and debureaucratise more of the cultural sector. Voluntary activities have been seriously lifted under today’s government — economically, but also through status. One of the challenges we face in the field of volunteering is the need to continue to simplify and red tape the interaction between the public and the voluntary. There will be a particularly relevant issue now as there are both more resources in the sector and several schemes in the sector. Then you have to be careful not to tip over on the other side, so that we get one for the bureaucratic sector. How volunteering and culture are going to be subjugated, and how we can be accused of being judges of what is good and bad culture, once we've just raised the wide field, when we've increased the bet on the wide field of culture, I find it hard to understand. The opposition criticises that we're interfering too much with individual parts of culture, that we're not letting culture get the free space. But the government has just made cultural innovation possible, while it has fertilized where it was already sown, by lifting a wide field and the whole cultural sector. I believe that is our responsibility. Through this idea, we are precisely ensuring that culture flourishes – without us, as politicians, the Ministry of Culture or the Council of Culture, interfering and being part of and deciding who it is to be given public funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e543	For the Christian People's Party, it is important to support and stimulate the production of art and culture through public budgets. The State has a responsibility to ensure good framework conditions. The Christian People's Party, together with a large majority in the Chamber here, has supported the strong increase in the cultural budgets that have been mentioned many times through the debate so far. The Christian People's Party has had a special heart for voluntary teams and associations in this effort. We've been fighting for the VAT exemption for a long time, but we've been discouraged. We fight for the municipal cultural schools, which are important to strengthen the opportunities for children and young people to develop their talents. We have prioritised extra funds for choirs, corps and voluntary amateur culture. We have not least prioritised additional appropriations for the Norwegian Opera & Ballet, so that the new house can be filled with high-quality content. The Christian People's Party is busy with increased bets on the chord field. I have great respect and understanding that the red-greens are very pleased with the increase in the budget that has occurred while they have been in government, and the increases that they have also promoted in their budget proposals, but I think it is a little strange political craftsmanship. If it's cultural life and cultural activity you're concerned about, it would be natural to build a bridge and show that this is a broad, solid political majority at the back of the hall. Instead, one is very concerned with creating distinctions between those who stand together on that promise, and to give the impression that there is a very narrow political majority behind this commitment. Then you're more concerned with party political marking than with the cultural campaign itself. It's obvious that it's good for the jazz, it's good for the rock, and it's good for the film to get increased appropriations, but it's not the same thing that we're going to stand here and take credit for the results or artworks that artists have developed in this period. Greater humility is required, not least at a time of increases in appropriations, and it is arrogant to take ownership of cultural life, of art and of quality. Listening to the red-green rhetoric, it sounds as if Norwegian culture is alive by politicians and state budgets. You talk like you own the culture. If the politicians own the culture, we also own people's lives. Cultural policy is permeated by the opinion that the authorities are giving cultural offerings to a spiritually poor common. We still hear, over the course of the debate, that you talk about who uses culture, and if you use culture, it has them and the positive effects, and so on. on people's lives. I understand that you want and think it's positive – and many of us think it's very nice – to be able to go to the theater and see a play, go to a concert and listen to music, or go to the movies and watch a movie. But it's actually like there's someone who chooses, instead of going to the movies and watching the movie, sitting at home and downloading the movie from the Internet and watching it on the PC with the "pottite gold" ball in jail. Some people think it's okay. Then you're not in the statistics. But what do people -- what do they live with, those who live a different life, and who don't get into one of these statistics every night? You actually live a life where cultural life is a natural part of your own life and of the community between people. So the whole political idea here expressed is a form of arrogance and an elitist cultural vision where we are giving the cultural offerings to the common people, and where it is the state that ultimately determines what is the politically correct expression. It's a very short way from the kind of distorted cultural understanding to also feeling that you can take power over and determine what kind of cultural expression it's worth highlighting. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should continue the efforts on culture that we have seen in recent years, but it requires a greater humility and understanding of what culture actually is. Cultural policy and cultural budgets are not to sow seeds in an empty field, cultural policy is to fertilise and water so that the seeds that are already growing get even better living conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e560	I would like to thank the representative Gjul for addressing this issue. I remember when Huitfeldt's predecessor presented the idea of the cultural promise. It was so brilliant that it was almost impossible to believe. It was so creative in itself and gave a historic boost to Culture-Norway. And the way you put these things into practice, with Culture-Norway on top of it, was very good. There came a measurable financial framework that said 1 pst. the state budget was to go to culture by 2014. It has contributed to increased width and availability. In particular, several new innovative measures have been introduced, which have provided more opportunities for access to cultural life. Here I can mention the cultural school bag, the cultural walking stick, cultural cards for young people – and increased efforts in prison culture, which I have been helped to see how things work in everyday life. Last year I was invited to join a project in Oslo County Prison that has got money to invest in a music studio. It gives meaning and hope to the inmates who have music as their field of interest. I was singing two songs in that studio together with employees and inmates – a rich experience for me, and hopefully it gave the inmates something too. Culture is important to all of us no matter where in the country we live. It binds us together, it gives us opportunities to contribute, it gives us rich experiences, and it builds on community and relationships with others. One of the exciting projects that has come with this government is rockebingen. So the government is grooving and playing with the youth. These bins are fantastic and provide many young people with a sense dream in their stomachs the opportunity to practice together in their own room. This idea can be further developed to apply, for example: taxamps for young people and other things. Then I'd like to praise the government for the effort you've had at the node festivals. Thus, a few have been lifted and have made more robust muscles the cultural drive in their area, both in terms of event and competence. But there's a little backside by this medal, and it's that the little organizers have got it tougher. The big players have improved the economy to pay larger rents. The small players have to pay the same thing, but they have to stand on their own economics. It gives them greater uncertainty. I think it is important to bring forward the cultural school system, which will help students both at primary and secondary level to get a basis for social inclusion and social understanding through exciting cultural services at school. Here I think you still have a way to go in terms of resources for the organisation of this. We can imagine what it's like to be one of the cultural workers in the municipality. In addition to the cultural school bag, you will be responsible for the construction of sports, responsibility for the cultural model of youth, you will be the cultural director, music school principal, etc. – an important community builder with a lot to keep track of. When the municipality has a great responsibility and may experience having a tight budget, yes, such types of jobs may crumble. This could happen, for example. that the money to go to the DKS is going to an urban trip for the students, instead of doing what to do, just to give them a cultural experience at school. That's why I think it might be better to bet that the county councils take more responsibility and manage this, and make setups at school. I think it'll enable this system to deliver better quality. I think many of the cultural tasks need to be better coordinated in the future. We need to have a better interaction between the cultural school system, the cultural walking stick, the youth culture model, cultural schools, volunteering, etc., so that you can take with you the experience you have now and look at how you can work better, both in relation to the economy and in relation to organisation. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Culture said what she said, that an investigation will now be carried out that is just going into this matter, because it will be involved and take seriously the challenges we are facing, and a policy will be put in place that will solve the crowds that are still there. I think that will help us both grow and swing even more in Culture-Norway, and that we have a policy ahead. I thought I would not take the right side of anything in this post, and after hearing the article from the right I found out that there is a very good reason to just take it easy. I didn't think it was very ambitious what the Right would contribute, but more surmaga. So I think the Ann has a job to do in relation to the investigation and to continue working on this. Then I think that Culture Norway will make a good turn forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e579	The cultural promise has moved some landmarks, not only because more money has come to cultural life under the red-green government, but also because art and culture by being raised on the top political agenda has become relevant in a different way than before – it concerns more people, affects us more strongly. And more and more have seen that this also gives us vision and insight, and that we can even get a little bit wiser and better to understand ourselves seas and others. If we understand culture as narratives conveyed through a set of characters and symbols, we see that culture can play an important role as an identity maker. The arguments for a society to focus on culture often have such a reason — in addition to several others. If we agree that this can be so, it might be useful to look at both the concept of identity and what the cultural landscape looks like in our time. The concept of identity is relatively new, both in public use and as social science terminology. In order to make identity visible, a person or group may find different markers. In our modern era of globalisation, great information flows and great mobility, we see clear signs that people find space for multiple identities at the same time. It also means that you can have a belonging not only to one ‘we’, but to several. I hope that all the parties in this hall can remember. In cultural life, globalisation has clearly had a bridge-building effect. It has strengthened the diversity of cultural life, provided artists with new sources of creative and performing activities and contributed to the increased need for knowledge of their own cultural traditions and a stronger desire to develop them. Such an understanding of identity is broadly consistent with the understanding that identity is not static, nor is it something one owns, but an experience of belonging that is movable and multiple. These days the festival Barents Spectacle goes off the staff of the Churchenes. It is a cultural event based on human living conditions at a border – in many senses of the word. We can clearly see that the festival is characterized by the physical, cultural and social boundary between Norway and Russia, both through the artistic projects the festival brings to its audience, and through the fact that about half of those who run the festival, including: as volunteers, are Russians. The importance of diverse cultural cooperation and the other people-to-people cooperation that takes place in the north are drawn in many contexts by the red-green government. This has also led to concrete provisions on the State budget, including: with its own pot for cross-border cultural work in the north. Is everything really good? Can we lean back and be satisfied? I mean no, and I think all of us red-green politicians mean no. That's why it really surprises me that the representative, Håbreek, claims that our cultural policy is a top-down project. It's just that it's wrong. As politicians, we must always be on the road and be willing to see the changes that are also in cultural life. The interpellant said that seven out of ten cultural crowns go to Oslo. I agree with her that this is a major challenge. I think we have a clear view of this in the area of film. It is quite right, as the Council of State said, that the great effort we have made on film has also strengthened films in the regions, and has led to, for example, the creation of new technologies. regional film centres have been given increased funding. But the big money in movies goes largely to a film environment that's in the capital, and this has to do not least with the fact that for a long time it was just a handful of people who mastered the technology and the ability to tell the story of living images. The technological revolution in visual history we've had in recent years has completely changed this picture, and made films as artistic tools available to much more people. So I think we have to see if it can be political action that needs to be done to get more of the big money in movies for the very many innovative movie environments we've seen growing up in the regions over the last few years. It's a very important challenge, which I think we should tackle, and then I'm very sure that the cultural promise is well on the way to being fully realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e592	I think it's very nice that we could have a cultural debate in Stortinget outside the annual budget debates, because then we also have the opportunity to discuss what we want with culture in the future. It's obvious that here's the big difference in politics between the not least right-hand side and the red-green. The representative Thomsen raises questions about what is good culture. Then I want to replicate back to the Progress Party that we don't want to sit and vote in Stortinget what is good culture. But I see that the Progress Party does. They want to sit in the Biggest and decide what is good culture. They do that in every budget. They say opera is bad culture, they say professional theater is bad culture. We're not going to spend money on that. But we're going to spend money on folk music, because it's culture, it's cultural heritage. They say we're going to spend money on amateur culture, but not on professional culture. What cultural policy is that? The important thing is the interaction between amateur culture and professional culture. What's going to happen at the theater festivals around the country in the summer if they don't have professional instructors or actors with them? What kind of interaction? Is that what I'm really worried about, it's that we get a Right Party government where we're going to have a sub-committee in the Progress Party that's going to sit and decide what's good and bad culture. Then there is also Mr. Thomsen is very concerned with literature policy. But what is the support of literature policy is, of course, the book agreement and the purchasing arrangements through the Council of Culture. But it is the Progress Party against – the fundamental pillars of cultural policy. Then it becomes quite artificial when you are so concerned about Norwegian literature policy. For what the Progress Party is really concerned with is not literature policy and the diversity of publishing books, but taxation policy. I also record that when the Right's only cultural politician one day isn't at work, we'll really see what's going on in the Right. Because in Olemic Thommessen's absence, I record that Haarek Riveres believes that freedom is about not being governed by state-owned cultural crowns. Then you become a teacher in cultural life. If that's what's going on in the Right, if you really want less money for culture, then I'm really worried. In conclusion, I think the Council of State raised very important points in relation to how we're going to use the cultural crowns in the future. And once again, I would like to encourage and challenge – as Mr. Tove Karoline Knutsen has also done in his contribution – that we should be better off getting the money out of the country, and that the whole people should be able to share in the cultural promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e605	Interestingly, when the head of the Culture Committee invites Stortinget to an open discussion on how to use the cultural crowns until 2014, there is so little interest from the opposition. It shows, in my opinion, that there is little interest in this matter, and that there is no desire to influence the priorities to be made. I think we're going to use the last few years to get culture all over Norway, to get culture to reach more – including those who don't go to the cultural institutions – and to focus on quality. I also think that we have been shown the cultural contradictions of the years to come. I could imagine discussing this further, especially with the Christian People's Party, because it seems that the party has not realized what the Right Party and the Advance Party are saying here today. The right now comes with very fresh statements that culture that gets money is submissive. I'll say the opposite. It is not that when the Nordnorsk Symphony Orchestra gets state money, they become more submissive, when the regional theatres get money, they become more submissive, when music life gets more money to organize concerts all over Norway, they become more submissive. It's rather the opposite. That's when culture gets self-confidence. Here we see today that the Progress Party wants to cut the cultural budgets sharply, which will really lead to the elite going to the National Theatre, who can go to Norwegian theatres, and that it will only be those who have rich parents, who can make use of cultural offerings. It is a settlement that the Christian People's Party does not take. They also do not settle with the Right, which is talking about the submissive culture that receives public money. I believe that the great distinction in Norwegian cultural policy goes between the governmental parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. At least that's what happens in Sweden. My Swedish colleague uses to say that she has not increased the cultural budgets, but she has given people tax relief, so people can buy more culture. It happens, dear friends of the Christian People's Party, if you intend to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party in cultural policy in the years to come. It's said here that I'm arrogant because I want culture out to people. Well, now we're doing a filmlift. That makes us get more TV productions out to people. People can eat as much pottite gold as they want and watch high-quality TV series. It's important language policy, it's important cultural policy, and it's the opposite of arrogance. I guess no one's ever wanted to be more detailed about cultural life than the Progress Party. They want the undersigned to interfere in the programmes the NRK sets out on its mission plan, purchase arrangements and the books to be purchased by the Culture Council. It is a detailed regulation of cultural policy that I am strongly opposed to. Let cultural life be free.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e620	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e636	As the President referred to, there was an interplay on this topic over three years ago, and there was no lack of willingness at that time to do anything about the situation. If you read the record from the interpellation debate, you can see that the Council of State had at least a total increase in its backs in order to make a necessary clean-up in the industry. That little has happened, I think you have to find out. It notes at least the operators in the market, it notes the regular taxi driver, it notes the tax rate, and it also notes the political leadership of the Ministry of Transport itself when it is said to the Evening Post last November that this work has gone too late enough. Then I notice that on the same day that the interpellation comes up, it is a very offensive Minister of Transport who in today's Business is now ready for action. That's good, and I'm excited to hear what it actually becomes. Let me refer you to a statement in the Evening Post of November last year: ‘Violent driver continues to run’. There we get a description of what was one of the theme of the interpellation more than three years ago, namely, that despite a number of complaints on that driver, he gets to keep the taxiway. The business bureau in Oslo, Øystein Sjøtveit, says that “they do not have a legal basis to stop him by taking away his permission”. I think I can discuss that. The question is whether the municipality of Oslo is doing its job. I'm not quite convinced of it. But the question is also whether the overall law is sufficient. This is my first challenge to the Council of State, whether she believes that the overall regulatory framework is sufficient as it works today. The second is that holding a right tends to give rise to obligations – not only rights but also obligations. Who is it today that follows that the obligations you have as a privilege holder are actually being followed up? In my opinion, it does not seem that the privilege authorities follow up in particular. There is also no requirement for it – at least there is nothing tangible in the overall legislation on it. What happens if you intervene? Is there anything in the law that says anything about penalties? Yes, at a very general level, there is something about penalties, but nothing about differentiation, nothing about criteria about what's going on. Then you sit there with a loss in the legal system because you don't have enough guidance, whether it's at municipal level, as a privilege authority, or through the law or guidelines of the law administrator. I have to say that I don't think there's going to be so much imagination to understand that this also creates frustration in an industry that is actually under a lot of pressure, because their reputation is at stake. I think many would be pleased if we got, what to say, a three-point alignment of today's legislation – paragraph 1 a clearer and more precise legislation in the form of law, paragraph 2, clear rules on what is required, and what is required as a copyright holder, and paragraph 3 sanctions when the requirements are not followed up. I am also aware that the Council of State has had meetings with the various actors, and I hope they have given her good insights into how to improve the situation. Professional transport legislation is too vague, for example. actors such as the Norwegian Taxi Federation. Are you prepared to make demands on the taxi centres, e.g.? Are you prepared to set requirements for what is needed to become a driver? And are you prepared to give clearer signals about sanctions? There is also a question of contact between different branches of what can be called Authority Norway — the police, the tax authorities, the privilege authority. We know that more people are going on, even if they're caught in various irregularities, and I can only agree with that head of the tax crime unit in the East of Skatt, Jan-Egil Kristiansen, says: «Now we need to have rules that work prevention. We have spent disproportionately large resources on back-testing of an industry. In 1997, when the case got a lot of attention, we all agreed that new rules should be put in place.’ 14 November 2010 this quote from him is taken from, and nothing, in his opinion, is in place. I have therefore gladly seen the signals given by the Minister of Transport in today's Business today. According to the Minister of Transport, full pressure is to be placed on the matter: ‘Now we will give this work a high priority. My ambition is to have a consultation proposal ready for spring. We want a broad consultation with a view to changing the law in the coming year.' That's what the Council of State says about today's business. I want to add a few words about the relationship between municipality and state, because I think it is right that the Municipality of Oslo has a good deal to answer for even as a privilege authority. But I have also looked at the correspondence that has been between the Municipality of Oslo and the Department in the last year regarding the preparation of new regulations for Oslo. I just have to admit, it's emotive to see how you run a pingpong game where you can't manage to sit down and agree on what a regulation can and should contain and what the basis of your residence may be. When I see these letters, I think that this should have let us see. Here you could work together. Now a year has passed since the first letter was sent, and then we have recommended that we wait to reply; it is an unclear basis for home. Who is suffering from this? It's the industry, of course it's the audience, and it's the reputation of all those who run the taxi industry. This should not really be a political arena. This should be an arena to get neat relationships, and until I've heard anything else, I think the council is actually also interested in it. I attend to her answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e676	Dry nutrition is a compound nourishment. There are very different challenges in cities and districts. Since the so-called taxi-jux sac in 2007, several departments have cooperated on various measures against irregular relations in parts of the industry. Let me first sum up what's been done: Since January 2009, Nav has the right to obtain information directly, including: from taxi centres, to control income against insured persons. A local control forum aimed at the taxi industry was established in Oslo in 2009. Police, law enforcement and other control agencies were involved. The pre-project for the establishment of an international running seat register has been completed. From 1 January 2010, there are work requirements for taximeters. The running seat code has been reviewed. Based on the 2008 Supreme Court rulings, the case-law on loss of running seat has been clarified and announced to the industry. The industry has also contributed to the grubbing-up after 2007 through its own internal measures. The Ministry of Transport is constantly working to make the county municipalities aware of the existing law on the enforcement of rights. The aim is to contribute to better cooperation between public administrations and more efficient management, control and follow-up of the taxi industry. Professional transport laws provide inter alia: rules on access to the road transport market. It is due to the taxi industry, the bus industry and the truck industry. In addition, the ice-cream is tested, i.e. the number of taxis per licence area is limited. The county council is the administrative authority for these transport rights. In professional transport management, the municipality of Oslo acts as one of the counties. In order to be qualified for permission, the applicant must have good repute, satisfactory financial standing and sufficient professional competence. The standards of good repute and financial standing are the same for all modes of road transport, while the professional competence requirement is somewhat lower for taxis than for bus and lorry licenses. Liability of one who operates a transport business in industry. In addition, drivers in authorised passenger transport must have a driver’s seat in addition to a driver’s licence. The police issue a running seat based on their own assessment of good repute and health and age requirements. The system of rights and driveways shall ensure healthy and order relations in the transport market, improve road safety and contribute to the quality of transport services for the benefit of customers, carriers and society. In my contact with travellers, parts of the industry and individual municipalities and county municipalities, I see a need to revise professional transport laws. Do we have too many dross, including Here in Oslo? When cars sometimes seem to be making their own taxi queue, i.e. a different definition of taxi queue than a series of impatient travelers, is it the practice today or the law that should be considered closer? Do we today impose strict requirements on some district dross when a privilege holder initially has 24 hours in the daytime? A few words about the withdrawal of the licence and the driver's license: While a driver's license gives the driver the right to drive a driver's cab, the driver's license entitles the driver to operate a driver's cab or a driver's bus. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for the law governing the rights and running of seats. Both schemes provide a background test, but there are differences in the rules on the basis of which the scheme is based. It is important that the legislation is exploited, so that rights and running seats are revoked more frequently and more quickly in response to infringements of the relevant legislation. The increased risk of revocation of a licence or a running seat would lead to fewer offences. The county councils, which is the municipality of Oslo, administer the rights system by assigning and revoking taxi licenses. Permissions may be revoked if the copyright holder does not comply with the requirements set in regulations or conditions or does not comply with the regulations and conditions that apply to the operation. Licences may be revoked on the basis of information provided to the county councils by others, for example if a bank guarantee statement is withdrawn or the police state that the person entitled is punishable for serious criminal offences. Licences may also be revoked because the county itself finds a breach of conditions, for example that the driving obligation is not fulfilled, that the right is rented out unlawfully, or that the owner does not comply with the requirement that the operation of the taxi should be the main occupation. The loss of rights is an interventional decision for an economic operator, and it is necessary for the county to be able to demonstrate that there is a basis for revocation. The police administer the running seat system as applicable to drivers. A fundamental consideration behind the running seat is that passengers should be assured a safe and safe journey. The condition for revoking the run title is divided into two groups. In the first group, the police are competent to revoke. In the other group, it's the courts. The condition for the police to be able to revoke a driving seat is that the driver is unfit for his profession. The lack of qualification must be justified by the fact that the driver is not sober, untrustworthy or has other characteristics that require him to be considered unfit to be a driver for the carriage of passengers for remuneration. The Court of Justice may provide for the loss of a running seat where a person holding a running seat is penalised by judgment or order. Let me mention the aspects of the professional transport law that I think there is a need to look at: Firstly, the exchange of information between the different powers of the board. Permissibility assessments are today based on police certification or alerts issued by the Public Prosecutor’s Office. Thus, the basis is a criminal offence where punishment is imposed or a criminal offence is handled. Violation of tax laws that are not dealt with by criminal law falls outside the scope of the directive. Under the current rules, tax and tax authorities do not have the power to notify the law enforcement authorities of the circumstances in which they are aware of their work, even if the information may be useful for the issue of the allocation or revocation of the licence. The Ministry is working on a proposal to introduce a right or an obligation for the tax and tax authorities to provide information to the law enforcement authorities on matters which should have an impact on the issue of the granting or withdrawal of rights. The proposal would provide a more comprehensive assessment of the good repute of the granting of rights. It will also allow for a more effective enforcement of authorisations to be revoked. Secondly, other measures to streamline the management and control of the authorisation arrangements by the Governing Boards. Here I refer to five points in turn and order. the obligation to provide information by the powers of the Board of Directors of the Equation. For example, it may be relevant if the authorities of the Equation Board find indications that the permission is operated in whole or in part by persons other than those entitled to introduce economic and moral requirements for a taxi centre to assess the ability of the privilege board to control the taxi industry – cf. Oslo assesses the rules on how to perform the pilot licence test, including setting the number of central lemping/exemption for driving obligations in more specific cases I think we should discuss giving exemption from being available to the audience in individual districts where the ignition is low and the option is to surrender the permit. In that case, travelers may be referred to a central mile away. The regulatory work in this area is required, including: The protection of privacy is central to several of the changes in the rules that I think we should now discuss. We also need to take into account the legal certainty of those who have taxi rights. The privilege management authority is required to have a clear basis for revoking permissions. A Supreme Court judgment of 25 March 2010 confirms this. It was a case of a decision by the Municipality of Oslo on the withdrawal of taxi licenses. The background for the case was the so-called taxijack sac. The review of the legislation of the professional transport law and its related regulations is required. It'll take some time. I'm impatient. My ambition is a note of broad hearing in the spring of 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e758	I thank the Council of State for the answer and also for the impatience. I think she can be sure that the impatience will be followed also from this room. I think it is a paradox – when we know the background to these issues having had a lot of attention, namely tax matters – that we are still discussing whether or not to provide information from the tax authorities to the law enforcement authority. In my opinion, there is a lot of talk about insidiousness. So there was some reason why you got what you could call the taxi case, as a headline, and you're still talking about whether that should be an opportunity or not. I interpret the Council of State as meaning – I ask to be corrected if not so – that such exchange of information should take place. Then I guess I also conclude with – I am asked to be corrected – that the Council of State believes that the privilege holder should be checked to a greater extent even after the permission has been granted, that it is a continuous assessment of matters such as reputation, competence, economic situation, etc. I also interpret the Council of State that there should be clearer criteria for the withdrawal of rights, so that you do not get into the situation that the Municipality of Oslo has just experienced, namely that the Supreme Court has tried the withdrawal – either because the legislation was not clear enough or that the Municipality of Oslo has not done its job, or perhaps a combination of both. I understand that she is now putting pressure on this work, that she wants a revision of the Professional Transport Act, and that the objective is a more tidy industry with clearer rules to deal with, both for those who are going to run the industry and for the authorities who are going to enforce it, and that it is ultimately the best thing for those who are going to use this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e771	I took note of three questions, and otherwise many comments from the representative Syversen's page initially. One was a clearer and more precise code. The second was clearer rights requirements, both in terms of rights and obligations. And the third was sanctions. I think I've done well for how important it is here with a revision of the part of what applies to our department – the professional transport law – from just these chords. I wasn't involved in sanctions, it's also a natural part of this work. Then I have to say, as I said in my post, that there are several departments involved here. Here are several public etats working together to get this done. On the one hand, in the cleaning of the part of the taxi industry where necessary, professional transport is the law, but also many other laws need to be followed more closely. It will be a mistake at this point in time for me to take a good view of other government councils. I look forward to coming back to it. So now it's not gonna be three years until the next time the Seven can ask their questions. I've said my ambitions when it comes to time. Let me elaborate a little on the judgment of the Supreme Court of 25 March 2010 – the last judgment in favour of the Municipality of Oslo – for there, Högsterrechtt found that the Municipality of Oslo’s decision to revoke was not valid because the municipality had not assessed whether rights should be revoked on the basis of the case, as the professional transport law stated. This is one of several examples of how we have to set up a clearer law here. So, I called Oslo Municipality in connection with an extended opportunity for rights management powers to control the taxi industry. So there is today the municipality of Oslo, in conjunction with the State Road Administration and the police, where they have the opportunity to exercise control. What we're going to see then is whether privileges alone can lead to control.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e782	The so-called taxi case in 2007 was one of the most comprehensive criminal cases in Norway history. 300 to 400 taxi owners in Oslo were involved in extensive tax and social security abuse. The matter was more than a scratch in the paint for Oslo's taxi business. To stay in the car world, we are talking about large volumes throughout the body. Bad reputation, however, is not the only problem facing the industry. As the Council of State pointed out, the taxi industry has different challenges in towns and cities. I want to use my post to talk about Oslo's challenges – one in four Norwegian taxis are registered here. Today, Oslo's taxi passengers have to deal with many more or less unprofessional taxi centres. Some central banks treat taxi owners unprofessionally, and many drivers have dubious pay and working conditions. Recently, we have been able to read about taxis that do not pick up disabled people as agreed, and about children who are reinstated, without adults being present to accept them. We know that storks keep the license, and that many are insecure when they take taxis. And we regularly hear about passengers who are subjected to harassment. On top of this, the Municipality of Oslo has managed the privilege authority in a way that has caused compensation payments of around 70 million to the municipality. kr. Oslo has fewer passenger cars per capita, and we have a different taxi market than the rest of the country. Since the distances are short and the collective offer is good, you can live without a car as long as the taxis are available. Oslo lifted the taxi monopoly and price regulation in 1998. The aim was lower prices and better services. After 13 years we have the fasititude: the change was an expression of an excessive belief in the market, the result is that prices have risen and the quality decreased. There are too many taxis in Oslo today. Norway’s Taxi Association uses the term ‘high overcapacity’. Oslo has 3.1 taxis per 1000 inhabitants. The figures for Copenhagen and Stockholm are 1,86 and 2,81 respectively. The industry is cyclical. During the period 2007-2009, the number of trips in Oslo and Akershus decreased by 23 pst. However, the taxi market does not function like other markets, increased capacity has not given lower prices, it has had the opposite effect. When the cars are more stationary, they have to take higher prices and work longer for the same income. Some drivers say they have to work 12-14 hours to earn what they used to do in 8 hours. In the review of the legislation, there is inspiration to be found in Copenhagen. That's where the taxi market works. Most of the North Zealand belongs to Copenhagen driving area, and there is an upper limit on the number of taxis in the region. Oslo and Akershus are also one driving area, but here each municipality determines the number of permissions. This means that it does little for Oslo to limit its number of rights when neighbouring municipalities such as Lørenskog and Bærum can expand their number of rights and drivers run in Oslo all day. And they do. In Copenhagen the taxi centres are owned by the shareholders, they are cooperatives, not limited liability companies. In the case of tenders, there is free competition. But like New York and many other big cities, Copenhagen has fixed rates for picking trips. This provides predictability and security. Taxi industry is not unregulated. The industry is actually very regulated. The problem is that many of the regulations are from the time of the horse dross, like the idea of permissions. There's a need for a clean-up. Drying industries must be organised in a way that provides safe and stable services for users, ensures good working conditions for drivers, and helps to prevent organised crime. As the interpellant mentions, much of the responsibility lies for cleaning up the municipality of Oslo. Those responsible there are not present here today, but I hope they interpret the interpellation and the posts as the message of concern it actually is. The government cannot assume the responsibilities of the municipality, but the government can impose clear requirements on the licensing authorities and how the taxi profession is to be carried out. The fact that the Council of State today announces a revision of the legislation makes this an important day for the taxi industry in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e803	The president just wants to remind the representative that presence is not the only way to follow the big meetings today. We shall not be surprised if there are more than those present who follow the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e806	After listening to the previous debate, about culture, I might very well want to discuss both with the Council of State and Gunn Karin Gjul, but we might rather stick to some of the culture here – but then maybe the unculture – in the taxi industry and what the interpellation really is on, which is an important topic, and which I am very happy to come on the agenda. I really liked to hear the Council of State. Yesterday, I was quite critical of the Council of State. Today I'm a little more happy to hear the Council of State, because she says she's ready for action. I like that, and I'm very happy about that. The problem is that this is not a new case. I'm a man of action who likes that things happen, I don't think you should wait for things to happen. I actually think you have to make sure that things happen, especially when we know what's very easy to do. There are, among other things: Oslo Municipality made a lot of contributions to the Ministry of Transport to clear up some of the issues that the municipality sees, in order to be able to close away those that you do not want to remain part of this industry. I think it is very important for the industry itself to get cleaned up – we have met with the industry by now – because it is an important part of the collective offer in large parts of Norway, yes, really throughout Norway. That's why it's so incredibly important to clean up and make sure that the taxi industry trusts customers, who are most people who use taxis either because they have to, or because they use the offer for other reasons. It's important that when you get into a taxi, you know that whoever sits there and is a driver, can actually communicate, and know where to drive. Not least, it is important that you also know that it is safe to travel with this collective offer. I think that might be one of the most important things. So I feel that the interpellant also had some clear questions and challenges. I would like to see that the interpellant was also a little more clear about the concrete measures to be implemented. But it was very good, and I agree very much with what the interpellant took up. I want to challenge the Council of States, and I want to be very concrete. Now the Council of State says that some of these things are being taken care of. But at least we've got a video from the Municipality of Oslo that there are three points that they would very much like to have in place to clean up this. One is, of course, what the Council of State has been talking about and said a little about — this with the introduction of ongoing misappropriation. Today, the certificate of conformity may only be presented every five years. It could have been smart to check along the way, just to open up people who commit crime while they're allowed, in order to get them out of the industry. A duty to disclose and report to the tax administration should also be imposed, as the Council of State was also concerned. But perhaps the police could also do the same to the privilege authorities, just to get cleaned up and get rid of any unrest or elements you do not want to be allowed to continue doing so. So this is the control bit -- doing checks. Today, I have at least been told that the Municipality of Oslo believes that they do not have enough opportunity and opportunity to send their own inspectors to check, and that perhaps you should give even greater room for that possibility. I hope that the Council of State will be able to respond to those challenges, which are very clear and concrete about what Oslo Municipality hopes to achieve. As I said, I am very pleased that the Council of States was very offensive and wanted to act, but I have to say that I think you experience a bureaucracy that gets a little like that – well, Mr. Councillor, without anything happening. Because with all the recordings, which the interpellant also recorded, that the Municipality of Oslo has sent to get a code, one has experienced a training. That is why the Progress Party, by the last Tuesday, promoted a proposal to bring this matter up in Stortinget – get a discussion and ensure that we have a regulation in place to ensure that what has happened in Oslo in parts of the taxi industry is not allowed to happen again, that we have a regulation in place that makes it easy and proper to ensure that both permissions are granted to those who are to be allowed, and – not least – that it is possible to close those who are not to be allowed to do so. Because that's what it's really about, to get cleaned up once and for all. That is why I am pleased that the interpellant has addressed this interpellant, and that is why, as I said, we have put forward a proposal for discussion, with concrete proposals for a solution. I now feel that things have been allowed to appear between the counties and the Municipality of Oslo and the Ministry of Transport, without actually happening concrete things. I look forward very much to both proposals in relation to the Professional Transport Act and other proposals and hope that you can perhaps have a majority in favour of parts of what is contained in the representatives' proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e832	Taxi industry has very different challenges, depending on where we are in the country. The Oslo challenge, which the interpellant addresses, and which is one of those that might get a lot of attention, we are aware of. There are also challenges in other cities, and there are district challenges, which we have seen quite a lot in recent days. I'll try to be a little bit inside everyone, because I think it's important that we have a functioning taxi industry around the country. It's part of the collective solution that we need to transport people to and from work and to and from vacation. In different situations of life, the taxi means great. I believe that there is a need for regulation and very clear demands on the industry, and I am very pleased that the Taxi Association also makes such a clear statement. They have done so in a number of contexts, at the latest in meeting with the Committee today. It is also very important that the county councils use their role as the government of rights. The municipality of Oslo in the case of Oslo, but I don't feel so sure that you take advantage of the opportunity you have as a privilege government in this city. Because, as the council said, a taxi queue in Oslo does not always consist of people, but very often of cars. In addition to the taxis being set up in many places, you are out there looking for customers. There are a lot of taxis to see in the city. It is important to use the authority and the ability to regulate the number of taxis and to unlock those you do not want. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister of Transport is very clearly signaling that we should look at the professional transport law and the regulations attached to it. It's important when you get a license, that you're qualified for it, that you have good habits, and that you have a satisfactory professional competence to have it. It must be followed up, and the county authorities must also take responsibility for it. It is important to point out, through dialogue with them, that you have that opportunity and that you take advantage of it. Then I'm also very happy that we're going to see if there are too strict demands for the district tax in terms of the 24-hour driving obligation. There is no doubt that it is difficult to fulfil the 24-hour driving obligation if there is one one one-way – that you have only the right to do so in a municipality. It goes without saying that it is difficult to watch 24 hours a day. I believe that there are a number of things that need to be looked at from the point of view of the districts. One is the tendering practice in the case of sick transport. When you find it difficult to explain that you're making money on today's tendering practices in health companies, it's a huge challenge, I think, for us as a society to look at this practice that has led to the loss of taxis around the country, even in urban areas, because it works like it does. It's important that you also look at it. Then I also think it is worth looking more at the order transport solution that we have now tested out in a number of regions. It works in Lillehammer, and it works in Nord-Trøndelag, and two of the last places where we know it's in place, are in Tolga and in Wevelstad in Nordland. There is an opportunity to also give an offer in areas where there are fewer customers, but where the taxi means a lot. Since the challenges are so different, there is a need for more regulation and more control, not less. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Transport signals that we should go through the Professional Transport Act and the regulations attached to it. Having said that, I would like to mention that there are also other issues relating to other departments, such as: The Ministry of Health and Welfare, which we need to look at in relation to the procurement practices relating to health transport around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e849	This is a timely interpellant – told the interpellant. I will also join very much of what has been said earlier in the debate, and in its entirety join the post of Håkon Haugli. Looking at the legal framework – at laws and regulations – it may seem that the taxi industry is one of the most regulated in the country, but it is not. This is an industry with major control problems and therefore also a lot of fraud, tax evasion and organised crime. Many county and municipal politicians have tried to let the market and outsourcing control the taxi industry just to discover that this is an asymmetric market that does not work. Deregulation, tenders, competitive tendering and market management have proved to be ineffective. This applies to both urban and rural areas, and therefore there are also common denominators here. Nevertheless, Oslo's taxi market is different from the situation elsewhere in the country, as Håkon Haugli and others have said. Rules and laws that can work elsewhere will have weaknesses and shortcomings in Oslo. Here is an important part of urban passenger traffic. Here we can find women who take taxis from the center and home to the city of the killer, because the heavy shopping bags are hard to maneuver on a crowded T-Bahn, and using their own car to the center is not always so tempting. There are businessmen – mostly men – bureaucrats and politicians who run taxis from meeting to meeting. We have TT-driving and even delivery of goods and correspondence by taxi. People take taxis to the airport and to the airport bus. In late evening hours, people are going home after a cinema visit or a tour of the city. As users, they are entitled to security, security and service – free from harassment, free from violence or sexual harassment – for that matter other harassment. It is a paradox that the strong development of collective provision in Oslo – or improvement, if you like, with evening and night buses – has led to a reduction in the need for taxis. This leads to overcapacity for an industry that is cyclically sensitive. And as Håkon Haugli said: For Oslo and Akershus, the decline for the period 2007-2009 is in number of trips of 23 pst., even with a population growth of over 4 pst. Overcapacity leads to higher prices — i.e. not lower — and unacceptable long working days for drivers. The serious actors disappear, and not only is the standard and service reduced, road safety has deteriorated due to poor drivers. This is further exacerbated by an increase in the number of taxi companies, for this is an imperfect market: several taxis do not offer lower prices. The dross don't get any more reasonable even though there are many dross in the hold. No one stops a taxi at Karl Johan's. 02.00 a.m. and ask what it costs to drive to Kalbakken, to quote Rune Gerhardsen not exactly. In the event of excessive overcapacity, the taxis must charge higher prices in order to get something close to a decent salary. So the so-called taxi market is not working. Well, this is where the Right-Fremskritsparte Council in Oslo has bombed so completely in its eagerness to show that the market forces are regulating the taxi industry. So this is not about selling bedding or sausages – or flowers, with which the mayor of Oslo failed to compare the taxi offer. So this market is at best asymmetrical and imperfect. More people here today have used the example that the concept of a cab queue has gained a slightly different meaning in Oslo than it had 20 years ago, because it is no longer about people waiting in line to get a taxi, but about the infinite array of taxis waiting for potential customers in the holding stations. We need a central review of the entire industry. We need strong and clear action in terms of the law that authorizes the industry, regulations and changes to the rules and practices of the law enforcement authority of Oslo. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister for Transport now announces a review of the Professional Transport Act with regulations, and says that she will also come back with this in the spring of 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e869	The working party and the red-green parties have long worked on the challenges in the taxi industry both in terms of the problem in Oslo, on which there has been the most focus today, and also in the districts. The main goal for us is, of course, that the audience, regardless of whether you live in Grünerløkka or Grong, should have a good and safe taxi offer. The situation is now that in Oslo a irresponsible policy is being pursued by the Right-Fremskritsparti-city Council, which the industry itself fears can be supported by a industry that is already struggling with great overcapacity and poor reputation. In many districts, offers from health businesses have led to a weakening of taxi services. If the taxis are no longer responsible for patient transport, it is difficult for many licensees to get it around. Then the basis for the local taxis often disappears. This is not least serious for elderly and sick people who are dependent on taxis for use in TT transport. I want to commend the Taxi Federation both for the work they have done to clean up bad business conditions, and to make us politicians aware of the need to clarify the law and regulations. The red-green parties have been in close dialogue with industry, and the Minister of Transport's response to the interpellant today makes it apparent that we are looking at the challenges for the taxi industry with great seriousness, both in Oslo and in the districts. The notified review of the Professional Transport Act is important to prevent overcapacity, to create viable working conditions for drivers in the districts and to facilitate the closure of undesirable elements in the industry. It is, as many have been in the past, a great overcapacity of taxis in Oslo. This is not least due to the large-scale collective development we have contributed to. This includes, among other things: led to the fact that there are not enough parking spaces for all taxis in the cities. One thing is that there are many taxis in line in the parking lot, but there are not enough parking spaces either. Therefore, a large number of taxis are driving around while waiting for passengers. Before Christmas, the Citizen Council proposed that the number of permits should be increased by 600, and in the summer of the year, the mayor arranged for almost a release of the taxi market in the city. We and the industry believe that liberalisation of the taxi market is completely wrong medicine. It will have major environmental consequences, and it will not least have major effects on the working environment. Already today we know that taxi drivers operate with extremely long working days, and they are poorly paid because much of the time, among other things. Abandoned until waiting. That's why it's important to look at, among other things. the criteria for the needs set out by the Council of State to avoid such a situation. I am also pleased that the Council of State announced that she would adapt the permit provisions to the districts, and that she would look at the county councils' ability to exercise better control of the industry. However, the county authorities as a privilege authority already have a large scope of action to exercise this responsibility. It has to be clarified. However, it is a major challenge that this is practised differently from county to county. In particular, the City Council in Oslo seems not to be fully exploiting, or not exploiting, the possibilities they have today for, among other things. suspending permissions. This sends bad signals both to the industry and to the public. It is important that the county councils assume the responsibilities already assigned to them today. Hoksrud thought things had taken too long. Then I think the representative Hoksrud should have a new talk with his colleagues in the bourgeois city council in Oslo and tell them that they already have a large space of action as a privilege authority that they can take advantage of. The City Council in Oslo could have done more, and should have done more. It has both an overall urban governance and not least the industry itself requested. Then it becomes directly embarrassing when Hoksrud owes him to the department in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e893	There's been a debate where there's been a little pingpong about who's responsible for what, and it might not have been very surprising. I will leave the debate itself on the number of permits to be distributed in the individual state, but that means that based on the experience in Oslo, there is no clear agreement between the number of taxis and prices, availability and service. I think we agree on that, no matter what you've meant in the first place. What must nevertheless be able to unite us, regardless of the permissive policy pursued in the individual counties, is that the rights must be granted, central requirements must be imposed, and rights must be respected. When the assignment has not been carried out in accordance with the obligations, it shall also follow the consequences. I believe that the Council of State fully agrees, and that it is her wish when she is about to speed up legislation. What remains then is the relationship with the authorities that the Council of State can indirectly influence. In the case of information flows between police, tax authorities and law enforcement authorities, one example is the case. I believe that this is also a subject, although, of course, the Council of State cannot answer on their behalf here. Let me just do another example. The Council of State will work to ensure that, for example: from the privilege authority, can environmental requirements be imposed, that the permission authority can in fact say that the cars to drive must have it and the type of environmental prerequisites in place to obtain permission? It could also be a way of giving the regulator more and better governance of the situation, not least from a climate perspective. I'm very pleased with the signals given by the Council of State. With regard to the regional challenges, I fully agree that they are a little different. But it's interesting to see how different actors interact with each other. Health enterprises, which work both in one way and the other for both taxi industries and non-governmental organisations, may well take a slightly higher level of social responsibility than has been seen so far, even in this area. The result is at least that in many places you now have to travel four and five miles to get a cab at all, because when patient transport fell off, there was no point in moving on either. And then you have effectively made sure that a service offer to the population falls away. I meet the bill to be sent out to the hearing, and I believe the council when she says she wants to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e908	Let me first of all thank the interpellant who took the initiative in this debate. Let me also thank those who have shared here for the good input into revising the Professional Transport Act and for the clean-up that is in progress. So that's the starting point for the interpellant Oslo. So we're now looking at changes that apply to both the city and the district, and we've also been given important input to the last. Keywords are e.g. ordering system, health transport and driving obligation. Let me then underline once again that from 2007 several departments and agencies have worked together to ensure clearer conditions and greater clarity within the current law. That's the basis that makes me both able to say what's already formally changed, and that we're now looking at further revisions. If we were to start with blank sheets today, this would have taken a little more time than notifying a hearing proposal for spring. The interpellant initially said that he believed this was a topic that was not politically unfamiliar. I thought it was enough to register in the debate today that it could be. Some call for more liberalisation. Some of the suggestions we're going to see are going in the opposite direction. That's why I thought it was very important in this case to call the ring a broad listener. I am foreordained that there may be different recordings and very different points of view, which I shall go through carefully. So the goal is healthy and orderly conditions for nutrition, more road safety, good quality for the benefit of both customers, carriers and communities. Finally, it was called the environment. I also think that there is an important aspect that needs to be taken into account in the work that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e921	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e937	Norway is today a major maritime nation and an international power in the maritime area with roots far back to the Viking Age. Workplaces in the maritime industry are spread throughout Norway and employs more than 100 000 people, of whom about 100 000 are employed. 25 000 of these are seafarers. Half of these are officers. The worldwide offer of seafarers in 2010 is 624,000 officers on board ships and nearly 750,000 subordinates. The growth in the number of seafarers is greatest in China, India and the Philippines. An increased need for senior officers of specialised ships is reported in the future. It is an international challenge to be able to meet the need for increased labour without jeopardising the quality of education. The need for maritime competence is increasing, including in Norway. The Norwegian Shipowners’ Association has doubled the estimate for the needs of industry staff twice in recent years. Maritime transport will increase in the pact of globalisation, world trade, population growth and policy objectives both in Norway and internationally for transport to and from sea. The maritime industry is increasingly knowledge-based. There is a huge technological development in shipping, and more and more special ships are being built with new positioning principles and new governance principles. Fortunately, more stringent environmental and safety requirements are also imposed, which also impose increased requirements on seafarers, shipping companies and training institutions. Schools must keep up with demands from shipping companies and with demands internationally, but also with demands from competitors abroad. Over time, it has been claimed by industry that Norway is at a minimum level in terms of international quality criteria for maritime education. It won't last! In the autumn of 2007, the Norwegian Institute of Innovation, Research and Education was commissioned by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, together with the Ministry of Knowledge, to undertake maritime education at all levels, from secondary and vocational schools to higher education. The government’s ‘Steam Course’ points to challenges in a wide and widespread educational provision, little cooperation and the choice of maritime education. The situation of maritime education and the need for future labour suggests an increased focus on quality and structural grips in the number of training places. A working group, called the Aasen Committee, set up by MARUT, put forward a proposal for a new national structure for maritime officer training a little over a year ago. The Committee recommends concentration of educational provision, differentiated training courses, recruitment, a national framework plan, cooperation and division of labour, development of competences, investment in infrastructure and increased R & D activities. The suggestions from the sample are so good that I find it strange and striking that nothing concrete happens – in an area that has been reported over several years. Maritime professional training is a very resource-intensive education. It is demanding for students and students, but it is also very demanding economically, because the school owner must always have, or should at least have, up-to-date and relevant equipment. Hardly any equipment is as expensive as that required in maritime education. Compliance with equipment requirements is a major challenge for many and small educational institutions. In Norway, we have two paths to maritime professional training — either for deck officers or for engineer officers. Both courses provide training in accordance with the International Maritime Organisation’s certification requirements, which are constantly becoming more stringent. The Convention specifies common standards in the form of minimum requirements for the certification of ship officers. Qualification can be achieved either through normal maritime subjects in secondary school, then as apprentices on ships, then a professional letter and then two-year vocational education or through general academic competence and three-year Bachelor's degree programmes in higher education. So until what has been mentioned by others: In Norway, 21 high-schools today provide maritime education. There are 15 maritime colleges and four colleges/universities. It is the University of Vestfold, formerly in Tønsberg, the University of Stord/Haugesund, the University of Ålesund and the University of Tromsø/University of Tromsø. The industry says that the education that the shipping companies are now asking for, and that they will increasingly demand, will not be there in the future if we don't do anything about maritime education. Maritime education also has a recruitment problem. Although, in the last few years of admission, we have recorded increased search for higher maritime professional education, it has been low in admission to this education for several years. In particular, it concerns marine engineering operations. In the case of recruitment, companies and authorities have implemented a number of measures relating to training activities. However, the labour market has also contributed to an increase in recent years. Demographic developments, the expansion of student coals, and not least the revision of admission requirements — which means reduced requirements here — have also contributed to the increase. Developments show that very many of the maritime colleges, and in particular the secondary schools, do not have sufficient equipment and that there will be no improvement in the short term either. Equipment used is often 25 to 30 years old, especially machinery spaces, simulators and laboratories, upon which we are completely dependent. The teacher is the most important in most of the training, as well as maritime equipment. There is a need for a considerable level of competence in this area to ensure that the learning skills we want are at school rather than on ships. We are facing a great need for compensation in Norwegian maritime education. Nearly half of the teachers in marine engineering at vocational schools in Norway are over 60 years old! 25 pst. teachers in secondary and maritime schools are also over 60 years of age. It's a huge challenge. Norwegian maritime officers have had a very good reputation for many years, but professional life continues to impose new demands. When the goal of Norway is to be a leading maritime nation, Norwegian maritime professional training should be conductive and not at a minimum level, which it is accused of today. There is a need to increase the number of students, to strengthen and to upgrade education and to increase the number of Bachelor's students. The Aasen Committee stated that the aim of higher maritime professional training should be to establish all the educational subjects and subjects encountered by the students in a research-active environment oriented towards applied R & D practice. I'm going to join in on this. It should guide a new maritime educational structure. Cooperation and division of labour between institutions providing higher maritime education, and vocational schools are not developed. The Aasen Committee proposes that we should be better placed here and demand that this be done. I think it's time for maritime education to have its own national curriculum, so that we get control of this. Then we also need to control the structure of what it's going to teach, and make sure that schools have the opportunity to finance the equipment they're going to have. Today the money is spent on too much. The increasing complexity of shipbuilding structures and systems means that the requirements for maritime officers in senior management positions should be strengthened. On this basis, several samples believe that candidates on the vocational school path should be required to be applied to the Bachelor's degree in order to qualify as ship officers with the highest certificates. There are also many examples of international training cooperation in the form of student exchanges in higher maritime professional education. For the working language of shipping, which is English, more and more of Norwegian education should also be based on English education, both orally and in writing. Summary: An overall industry is waiting for action by political authorities. It is perceived as a real vacuum of power and tools between state-owned secondary schools and vocational schools, state universities, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The reports have been there for years. It's high time someone took the political ball and the political responsibility. But no one has so far taken the initiative. It is time for increased political focus, but also for political action. It's for the Council of State to have Guessed – he does. That's why I have expectations that something is happening right now. One of the first seafarers to learn at school and on board ships is that captain and co-pilot must have a steering speed in order to arrive at the target and, not least, to be able to steer along the way. I can certainly say that maritime education has lost its driving speed. It floats completely without a fixed course. The intention of this interpellation is to signal to the Council of State that the Storting will follow, the Right will follow. We want a strengthened maritime education. I expect the Council of State to do its job and put the ship back on course, or what the government calls 'Big Course'.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e991	Let me just first say that the formal responsibility for education issues, schools etc. is located in another department and under another State Council, so that to the extent that you want to go into it in detail, you need to address the interpellation there. As it is addressed to me, I assume that this is seen more in the context of the general shipping policy and the government's maritime strategy. The question the interpellant asks is what the government will do to strengthen maritime education. From a shipping minister’s point of view and in connection with the government’s maritime strategy, competence is a key factor in the further development of the competitiveness and value-added capacity of the Norwegian maritime industries. In the government's strategy for environmentally friendly growth in the maritime industries from 2007, the Stø kurs, we present a plan to support the further growth and development of the Norwegian maritime industries. Our vision is that Norway should be a world-leading maritime nation, and that we should deliver the most innovative and environmentally friendly solutions for the future. The level of ambition requires education, recruitment and the development of skills. It is therefore essential that we pursue and maintain a high level of maritime education. One of the five main areas of the strategy therefore includes actions and objectives in maritime competence. At the same time as Støn kurst was presented, the Government engaged the NIFU STEP to analyse maritime education. The report pointed to a number of challenges at all levels of maritime education, from secondary and post-secondary schools to higher education at higher education and universities. Among other things, we have a part to go on with regard to the time of professional immersion for students, time to practice in engineering workshops, on ships and in simulators, up-to-date textbooks and technological equipment, cooperation between maritime industry and education and between the various educational institutions, and not least with regard to the recruitment and development of the competences of maritime professionals. Following up on the ‘Steel Course’, we have addressed many of the challenges facing maritime education. ‘Steel course’ followed the hand-held means of earmarking skills promotion measures: The government has granted 25 million from 2008. kr in addition to new equipment and the upgrading of infrastructure of maritime training institutions. One example is the Bergen maritime technical school, one of the largest in the country, which in 2009 was allocated SEK 600 000 in grants for the extension and upgrade of the school's simulation system with dynamic positioning and diesel electrical systems. This benefited in particular the training of the crew of modern cruise ships, ferries and specialised offshore vessels. A total of 72.5 million. kr, including the current year, has gone to competence enhancement measures for teachers and scholarships for recruitment of foreign students to Norwegian maritime education. An example here is the University of Tromsø, which in 2009 received less than 1 million. kr to two post.doc positions in maritime safety and subsea operations and maintenance. The 2003 net pay scheme aims to ensure Norwegian maritime competence and recruitment of Norwegian seafarers. In the winter of 2010, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade received an evaluation report stating that the objectives of increased recruitment and enhanced competence in the maritime industries are being achieved through this scheme. The Norwegian Maritime Competence Foundation requires and manages payments from shipping companies covered by the net pay scheme. This Competence Fund also contributes significantly to the transfer of competences and recruitment measures. Since the first allocations in 2004, the Foundation has granted more than 390 million. kr for various purposes and measures to strengthen Norwegian maritime competence. Most of the appropriations are grants to shipowners with on-board training positions. The school ships, which offer valuable practical training and experience to students, have also received significant grants. In addition, the Foundation transfers funds for recruitment campaigns such as the website notforall.no, training and competence development projects and HMS actions. This is in line with the issues raised in the NIFU report and the leaders who were put in the Stø kurs. Strategic advice for MARUT consists of top managers linked to different parts of the maritime sector, as well as representatives of maritime education, research environments and the workforce. The task of the Council is to discuss overall industrial policy issues related to the maritime industries and to act as an advisory body for the work of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade on maritime policy. In 2009, I asked for strategic advice on an assessment of what is needed to ensure maritime quality education. A working group was set up by the Strategic Council mandated to make recommendations on the national action and priorities needed to meet the challenges and meet the requirements for forward-looking maritime training. The working group did not outline in detail any new national structure for maritime professional training, but identified some structural challenges that could not be solved by the individual institution. The work group's assessments, which were endorsed by the members of the Strategic Council, I consider a good input into further work on maritime education issues. On the basis of this report, the four higher education institutions providing maritime education in Haugesund, Ålesund, Vestfold and Tromsø have initiated cooperation based on the principle of cooperation, division of labour and concentration in the university and higher education sectors – SAK. The overall objectives of the project are to raise education to a higher and more specialised level and to provide world-class education. Just before Christmas, institutions submitted an application to the Ministry of Knowledge for funds for a development project for maritime competence from a 2020 perspective. In order to ensure equal treatment, it is now necessary to examine the application in conjunction with other applications for SACs. As Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, I am responsible for the international certification of qualifications given by the Directorate of Maritime Affairs. Maritime certificates are issued by the Directorate in accordance with international rules which ensure that the scope and content of vocational and higher education education courses follow the international regime. The Code is contained in the STCW Convention, which contains standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers. The amendments to the Convention, which enter into force on 1 January 2012 with transitional rules until 2017, result in stricter qualification requirements promoting quality-based education and providing competent seafarers regardless of nationality. The Government has actively supported the revision of the Convention. In the case of specialised schools, I would like to remind you that the county councils have the operational and financial responsibility. This is the result of the administrative reform from 1 January 2010. The county councils have a legal responsibility to ensure that approved vocational school provision is available in the counties, which take account of local, regional and national needs of competence in priority areas of society. They are thus an important element of the education system. The fact that the operation and funding of the vocational schools are now subject to regional political control helps to increase the legitimacy and ensure local anchoring of the vocational offer in the respective counties. Universities and universities are responsible for professional profile and quality in their own study offerings. Academic freedom is important and therefore cannot be imposed on a particular content of education or research. However, in education aimed at a particular industry, it is natural that the industry should be closely consulted to ensure relevance to education. Continuing training for maritime employees is also a very topical area of cooperation where there is already a lot of exciting and good work. The responsibility of the provider for the development of professional arrangements on the offers lies with the specialist school training courses, while the NOCUT has the approval authority. For a more detailed educational policy debate, I would like to refer to my colleague – or my colleagues, I might say – in the Ministry of Knowledge. The government assumes that the role of government authorities is to facilitate, stimulate and contribute to the achievement of voluntary cooperation and division of labour processes at universities, colleges and research institutes. We don't want to force the education system on solutions from the central level. It has also been shown, as for example. The NIFU STEP report notes that the introduction of local curricula and project work in secondary schools and vocational schools has led to positive developments: improved performance and less stress, improved inter-disciplinary coherence and improved opportunities for cooperation with local maritime industry in education. It is in this interaction between educational institutions and an industry of continuous change that we can maintain Norway as a strong maritime nation built on knowledge and competence transferred to new generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1034	I have to say, I'm disappointed in the answer. I had actually expected the politician Giske to be also a politician in Stortinget. This was a very bureaucratic article. That's the classic thing that's happening. What was the starting point for my interpellation – which is honest and not party-politically motivated: It is pointed out from an overall industry that there is a vacuum that arises between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Economic Affairs via state-owned secondary schools and back again to now state-owned vocational schools, which no one is addressing. The reason I promoted the interpellation with the Minister of Industry is that I actually have expectations that he is a man of action. I have respect for the Council of State Giske, and therefore I thought that he might be the right man to take this ball. I have to say that when the framework is so clear and we need a new national structure, a national curriculum, it becomes very wrong for the council to show that the county has ownership control. That's perhaps what's part of today's maritime structure, which is one of the points of this discussion. There were 514 students who applied for and came to maritime vocational schools in Norway in 2009, divided by 15 specialised schools – critically many. It was informed by the educational institutions that it should be 70–80 per year, so that we get a professional environment of students, a professional environment for industry and a professional environment for learning skills. The current system does not follow up on this at all. It's quite obvious that you need a national curriculum – and I'd like to say a word with the Ministry of Knowledge and Kristin Halvorsen about this, but I think the commitment to maritime education is greater in the Workers' Party than it is in SV. That is why I tried to raise my eyes to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For it is the Ministry of Industry that has set up a working group, asking for concrete input into how to make some structural changes. Then it is not useful that the Council of State comes to Stortinget and points to the county councils and the Ministry of Knowledge. In this context, political impact is needed, political initiatives are needed to impose strict quality requirements on educational establishments – which are funded, which rely on learning forces, which focus on how to benefit from education, which is based on national unit price financing, which is held in other industries with a national focus, and which is also based on a national structure and a national curriculum. That was the point of my interpellation. I understand that the point has not been completely taken, so I will ask the Council of State to take personal initiative in the matter and not let the government rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1049	Let me first thank you for the trust; I record that the interpellant would like the undersigned to be responsible for more than he has. Now, I guess I'm the first Minister of Industry who has also been Minister of Education, so it wouldn't have been against me to take part in an active educational policy debate. But for formal reasons, I think we should let the Minister of Knowledge answer educational questions – at least from this speaker’s point of view – so that we have a clear understanding of who has the fundamental and constitutional responsibility for which areas. What I have a great responsibility for is to work with the industry to identify what kind of knowledge needs you have, to see the long-term trends for which knowledge needs we are going to get, to carry out investigations – as we did, and to provide a professional basis for what we are going to do in many different areas – to coordinate and coordinate efforts and to be a driving force for the maritime strategy. The most important thing that happened when we took over in 2005 was just going away from the business-neutral business policy and saying that we should have some particular areas of activity, not least the maritime, where we, for example, are going to have some areas of activity. retained the net pay system, which provides the basis that we have at all these people who need this knowledge and competence that we are discussing here. Whether we need national curricula or not – I guess I also have to say that there was no one who was a bigger proponent for this to be determined by the colleges and colleges themselves, than the then Minister of Education Kristin Klemet. We even got a national recognition body, NOCUT, for higher education, which I had not proposed as Minister of Education in the reform that came in spring 2001, but which the civil government introduced afterwards, and which has quite practically delegated this responsibility to the individual schools, but on condition that it is approved by NOCUT and has the quality it has. It has advantages, it has disadvantages, but it was not the jam that introduced it. It was the interpellant's own government. Then we fully agree that these educational services must respond primarily to the industry's own needs. The fact that vocational schools are organised under the county council instead of the state is not really the essential thing. The most important thing is that they work closely with the industry, work closely with the industry, identify needs and train candidates that are relevant to the jobs they are going to enter. The entire survey on maritime strategy and the meeting forums we have is just the answer to the fact that these coordinations are going. I want to say that the investigation work and the follow-up of it is very successful because we have made the links between professionals, the schools and the industry that we need to make the studies even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1060	I want to start by saying that I have noticed that the representative Arve Kambe has a strong commitment to maritime nutrition. It's affordable. Not least, he has gone high on the track during the election campaign by claiming that he would be the politician on the Stortinget who fights for the maritime industry and would be a region's man in his own kingdom. Maybe this interpellation is part of that goal. Furthermore, I think it is commendable that the representative Kambe has the courage to challenge the Minister of Industry of the Red-Green Government on maritime education – a government which has supported this policy and with which the Right Party has so far been unable to compete in the overall maritime policy, rather in relation to today's theme. It may therefore be important that Kambe also work hard in his own party to get the maritime policy that can help build maritime competence in the future. I was in Haugaland a few weeks ago and visited, among other things. Solstad Offshore, and I was in Eidesvik. They didn't scream much at Right Maritime Policy. They warned against it. Why do I say that? The main key to getting Norwegian seafarers educated is that we have introduced the net pay system and that it has a stable roof. Both in Eidesvik and at Solstad, they were clear that one must not start with the cheese requirement and cut on the roof that is currently NOK 198 000. But what is it really the Right Will? When the Right sat in government, Ansgar Gabrielsen promoted a big message about shipping. A little – yes, maybe nothing – came out of it. Then came the Stoltenberg government and placed the cabinet where it was to stand and got in place a rough course with predictable framework conditions as the industry wanted. It is part of building up under Norwegian maritime competence, and it is the Norwegian seafarers who want to win over Right-wing policy that aims to reduce the ceiling to NOK 120000. It is also the organized workers who are the only ones who will not be allowed to participate in the Right Tax Cut – that is, a double penalty. So to the educational institutions. When I was in Haugalanden, I was visiting Stord/Haugesund High School, and the colleges also held that meeting. There was a lot of praise to pick up for our tough course, and they presented what they had got. Not least those who provide maritime education in Haugesund are well in the process of working with the same actors in Ålesund, Vestfold and Tromsø, to which the Minister of Industry referred. They work together on division of labour and want to raise education to a higher level and deliver world-class. They stressed the good dialogue they have with the industry. They have even obtained a youth guarantee, as they themselves call it, which implies a minimum requirement for the students' characteristics against being guaranteed summer jobs in the industry. It has produced good results. In addition, there is good cooperation between the university and the vocational school locally in relation to learning forces, and not least in equipment and simulators, which are important for the industry. The maritime industry has now come back to life after a difficult time when the financial crisis has taken a heavy toll on the order books. The situation that arose was the result of a free market that came out of control – a situation that showed how bad things are when you are governed by the principle of neutrality, a principle that is usually very happy with. In the fall, the Seamans Association celebrates its 100th anniversary. There was, of course, Trond Giske. His gift to Norwegian seafarers was to continue the net pay system with an undivided thank-you. Mr. Kambe's party colleague Svein Flätten was present. His gift was to create uncertainty about the Right Maritime Policy. The fleet deviated from the model of competence to the Right and evaluated a new model only for the officers. He also said that the roof should be cut down to NOK 120 000. The working party knows this industry well and has good dialogue with the industry in both good and bad days, I would say. It has proved to be important to hold a tough course, and we have delivered a 10.2 billion package of measures. kr in relation to the demanding situation that has occurred. The maritime industry needs stable framework conditions, not short-termity and a need for cheese in view of the good arrangements we have established. If Kambe wants to bet on recruitment, I have to remind you that with the alternative policy of the Right, young people may stop looking at the maritime education at all, because the framework conditions do not facilitate a future in that industry. It's almost interesting to hear what Mr. Kambe said, that it's ‘fair and not party-political’. For the engagement is strong here, and maybe the representative has a different view than the Right on this. The Labour Party wishes to continue to stimulate cooperation between educational institutions, to look at the division of labour and not to impose solutions from the central government. We still want to put money on the table for skills enhancement measures for teachers in maritime education, professors, exchange of experience and grant schemes to recruit foreign students to maritime educational institutions. We are now recording a positive trend in the number of applicants for the industry, which is very important because we still have too few.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1077	I record that the representative Botten says that one has a bad course in this case. That course, in which case, will rent this shot — the education — straight up into the rocks. In More and Romesdal, we see that the maritime education now is in the process of becoming confused, simply because when a person transferred responsibility from the state to the county councils, he did not follow with the necessary economy to be able to continue his education at the level he had before. The head of the trades union board, Torgeir Dahl, says the following: "The county has too little money to maintain the offer in Kristiansund." And that offer was in danger of being put down. So ‘the State has run from responsibility. They have transferred all responsibility to the county council” – and the county council also took it for a period of time. We see that it's very disappointing for the county that it's not going to be wagered as it should be within this industry. When the Minister of Knowledge is challenged by the financing of this offer, she says that one has passed on the same costs of this training as before. It only shows that one is not willing to enter and see that maritime education is more expensive than normal education when it comes to technical education. For More and Romesdal, this is very serious. We see that the maritime cluster that represents high technology, as well as export revenues in the billions class, depends on proper investment, and the whole necessary resources being put in place. The cluster consists, as we know, of rail companies, shipyards, equipment suppliers, ship designers and service providers, and all of these that are mentioned here have world-leading product quality. I want to say it so strongly that Norwegian shipping in many ways – with the cluster and all the other actors involved in this – is at a crossroads. When one of them in this cluster, together with the scores, is missing 20-30 million. kr only in a state like More and Romsdal, it shows the seriousness of the situation. As I said, this government is running the shot with a rough course right in the rocks. In the future, one cannot trust that the county councils, with the tasks they have been given, will be able to take responsibility, as they have done in More and Romesdal for a period of time. It shows that this interpellation and discussion of this matter is extremely important. In conclusion, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Kambe, for bringing this important matter up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1090	I would also like to thank the interpellant Arve Kambe for addressing an important topic. It may not be so perceptive that party traps boast of each other, but I want to do so anyway, because also in the Kuf Committee, we have tried to focus on maritime education from the Right. I think the interpellant is right that the government has been incomprehensiblely passive for quite a long time in this matter. The government submitted a big deal in 2009 – St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, The Education Line — where this theme was not mentioned at all in a single word, despite the fact that the government itself has expressed concern for the sector through the Support Course. Let me quote from what the government itself says in Stø kurs, which is a document on the government's strategy for environmentally friendly growth in the maritime industries. That's what the government says, among other things. ‘that neither the structure nor the quality of the offers’, i.e. the training offers, ‘are good enough. The situation of maritime education and the expected need for future labour suggests that the focus must be on quality and cooperation between educational institutions. The government will investigate how to improve the quality and future structure of maritime education [[...]] We think this is a very clear description of a problem that the government itself says it will address. That is why it surprised us in the Right – and we got an overall opposition on a note related to this – that this topic was not at all mentioned in the government’s big news about the overall education offer in Norway – The Education Line. We therefore put forward a comment on this and proposed the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess measures for improving the quality and structure of maritime education and training and to bring the matter before the Stortinget.’ This proposal only received the votes of the opposition. It's quite obvious to us that the government has given a proper look at some challenges, a short analysis – they've said a, but so far you've been waiting to say b. In the education sector, higher education, we have a completely parallel discussion about this with structure. I think the Council of State mentioned it in one of its articles, namely this so-called SAK bet. So SAK stands for cooperation, division of labour and concentration. K for concentration could have been replaced by k for quality, because that's what this is all about. We have some challenges in a small and sparsely populated country such as Norway, how much is lubricated relatively thinly, and where the challenges now are that quality requirements require structural change. For example, I can mention that in Norway today we have teacher training in 23 different places. Several of these training places have serious problems recruiting students. It was such that the government had to deviate from its own requirement for a minimum number of students to be admitted in order to avoid further offers being made. But there's obviously a need for a structural discussion. After all, the government has put this topic on the agenda through SAK, and the Ministry of Knowledge has set aside funds. In this debate, the Council of State pointed out that such funds were also allocated to maritime educational institutions. At the same time, the government has a somewhat incomprehensible refusal to make decisions; it is in a way pushing ahead of the sector. Røjres Svein Harberg has, in another interview, challenged the State Council for Higher Education precisely on this question: What does the government want to do about the structural debate in higher education? So there's a very relevant question in this interview debate as well. Finally, I would like to say that interaction in the sector is important. It seems that interaction between departments is also a challenge. I would also encourage the Minister of Industry to take a stronger initiative to be more active in this, because when industry demands a structural change, it is important to listen to the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1115	I want to thank the interpellant for a very important question. The quality of education when it comes to the central and important industries in Norway is an important issue for which there is a strong interest in the Stortinget, also in SV, as opposed to the interpellant trying to suggest here. I have noticed with wonder that right here goes very high on the track and calls for stronger central control. After all, we have seen, as the Minister of Industry was about to do, the opposite signal when Right was in control of the education system in Norway. There are no more than two days since I was in a debate with the Right People, where I was dismayed that we would all the time think that central government was better than regional and local government. So here I guess the Right meets itself at the door. I'm going to leave the polemic and go over to what I think is important to ensure the quality of the kind of education that we're talking about here. I have worked 25 years in industry and 10 years in universities, and my absolute conclusion is that without comparison the best way to ensure the quality of vocational training and higher education relevant to business is to have close and close cooperation between business, educational institutions and municipalities and county municipalities at local level. I myself have worked with and built up such cooperation around a corresponding education that is close to the maritime sector, that is, the supplier sector, and there is no doubt that the kind of cooperation is what builds quality, that is, that the educational forces get relevant casar for their students – that is what makes them in the business world able to make concrete insights into what is quality, what is modern, and what is up-to-date education. What surprises me then is that the party that the interpellant represents has just been proposing to reduce the budget lines of the State budget to finance such cluster collaboration between educational institutions, businesses and the public sector by removing regional development funds and by helping to cut the budgets to go to the National Centres of Expertise and Arena projects. So I understand the intentions of the interpellant. They're very good. They're completely in line with the government and SV work for, but they don't follow it in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1126	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. It is important to focus on maritime education and competence. The requirement to have a national curriculum, I think, is important to see the whole, not least in view of the fact that the volume of education should meet the needs of the industry. The industry is preparing for the maritime education and, in fact, is today perhaps the key to providing a good education. The various schools do not cope with the economic conditions involved, nor do they have enough learning skills and equipment needed to keep pace with the development of the industry. High school in Ålesund is a good example of business and education going hand in hand. In Norway, we want to provide students with the best maritime education in the world, and if the maritime industry is to grow at a time when there are fewer young people, the industry must win the battle for the talents. Today, the situation is that there are too few young people who choose a maritime educational and career path. Questions are also asked whether the quality of the offers is good enough. The maritime industry in Norway is growing and the prospects for the future should be good. Maintaining the position in the global competitive situation depends to a large extent on the quality of students and employees at educational institutions. A critical review of maritime education in Norway is therefore necessary to ensure that it is actually the best in the world. In recent years, much has been done to make the maritime education opportunities known to young people. This job has largely accounted for the industry itself. It is important to tell young people that working with a ship industry that has long traditions is a golden opportunity — where Norway, as a nation, competes at the top of the world. But as the interpellant and also MARUT point out, we have different structural challenges, and I want to spend the rest of my speaking time at the vocational school place in the education system. Here there has been a development in which the vocational school is more accepted as a vocational higher education now than it has been in the past. For those students who opt for a maritime profession in secondary school, the vocational school is a natural career choice. The Christian People's Party believes that introducing vocational school credits is important. It is also important to harmonise vocational plans and regulations for colleges and colleges, so that students can easily go from a specialised school and beyond to a maritime college. This is a balanced approach, because it is important that the vocational education itself – getting a professional letter – is also a full-fledged education. It is also important that the teaching of maritime vocational schools extends beyond the minimum requirements for obtaining a certificate. The maritime industry is deeply concerned about the decline that is taking place today in economic development after the counties assumed responsibility for the vocational schools. There are other articles that focus on. Continuing this strupping of the maritime vocational schools, this will clearly affect the development of skills and the recruitment of the labour force of the future. This is not what the industry or Norway needs today. We need to look forward, and we need to organise education provision according to the needs we see that the industry needs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1142	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State that he has purchased the iPad. I expect him to hear what's going on on in the pulpit anyway. Initially, I will be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate in this Chamber. I have to say that it was a little surprising to hear my honourable colleague from the comments of the nutrition committee Else-May Botten. Because when I read the interpellation, case no. 5 on today's map, I see it more like an invitation just to move on, to be able to get better within a field that actually has some issues today that we have to find a solution to. Interpellence itself draws up a number of things, both related to what the Nordic Institute of Innovation, Research and Education, NIFU STEP, did in the autumn of 2007, and as other institutions have just pointed out. Then it is important that we have this kind of debate about how we can move forward one step, and not just go into the trenches. Perhaps the most important thing in the debate itself, if we're going to get some order of it, that we're going to get a progress educational and get more people to apply to this sector, etc., is the framework conditions for the industry, the safety of getting a job, the possibility of further career opportunities and not risking what happened a few decades ago, when we lost a whole generation of seafarers because the framework conditions changed. In this connection, and as a work tool, I want to boast of a Stylish course. Although the government's programme is related to the maritime sector, it is very good at Støn kurs, but then it must also be followed up. What I'm almost interpreting as an invitation here is that more government councils and ministries should cooperate even more closely than it can look like you're doing today. I heard that the Council of State itself in its second post pointed out that there was another Council of State that had the constitutional responsibility of the educational system. Of course, that's absolutely right. But if you look at the maritime education, it's a good thing – what's going on with the educational institution, and what's going on on in the industry. These things are connected. It is clear that it is to gamble to take a maritime education, if you are unsure about – when you are going out either as an apprentice or take your speed time – whether there is actually a place at that end. Yeah, then you think about it one more time before you just do it. So here you have to have even better deals than you have today. It is clear that the cooperation that is being carried out, among other things, is have been created in More and Romesdal with the School of Trade in Ålesund, about the school's opportunities for professorship in collaboration with the industry, is incredibly important, because it makes you give the industry ownership to the educational community as well. But then we also have to be willing, as the representative Kambe refers to in this interview, to look at our educational institutions and the way we have organized them. Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland so much in his career, and that's especially one thing I noticed, which was very wise, and that's of course the statement that everything is related to everything. It does not apply at least in this industry. I'm not going to attack any party because you say one thing and do the other. Someone's done it. But it is clear, it is a problem when we look again at the budgetary negotiations that individual parties propose to lower, among other things. what is referred to as the net pay scheme, which is a reimbursement scheme, is that one goes down on it, whether it is 120 000 kroner or, as the Christian People's Party proposes, to significantly lower it, in the hundreds of millions, in proportion to what it is now. The important thing is precisely the framework conditions and predictability for us to take the education that ensures our job. Also, the fight associated with the shipping tax, which we saw for a while back, is also one of those things that question it. But I hope that what comes out as a result of this interpellation debate is that the Minister of Industry will join with the person responsible for the education and look at the appropriations. It costs more to train seafarers than cooks. Both occupational groups are very important, but some things involve higher costs than others, not least in terms of competence. I hope it comes as a positive result out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1159	I want to say that the debate has been very interesting, because it is obvious, when you hear the tone of the government party representatives on the Stortinget, that we have met a sore toe. Obviously, the government has not done its job here. Obviously, the red-green wholesalers have not done their job here. Maritime education is out of course. It has no progress, and unfortunately this debate has shown, and it updates the importance of following up this matter. The representative Holmelid has some ‘syntax error’ in his reasoning when he points out that the Right as well should be against national curricula. The whole promise of knowledge is about having national curricula, but the way schools out there choose to implement them has something to do with local business. It has something to do with the knowledge in school, and it has to do with the interest and need in business for students and businesses. That's the way it's supposed to be in maritime nutrition. We know, among other things: that the four colleges working on this are already doing this. In Tromsø they are very good at arctic operations. In Haugesund they are very good at subsea and deep sea. In Ålesund they are very good at offshore, and in Tønsberg they are very good at gas and chemical tankers etc. Else-May Botten gives me initial praise for being a friend of the maritime industry. I'll take that. There's actually something I'm going to keep going, and as she quite rightly pointed out, I was driving a lot of the campaign at home in my region. I think it's important that you have people on the Storting who are concerned about something, that you burn for something, and that you work for something. Maritime education is important. Now we've seen for a long time that there's a vacuum out there, and when there's a vacuum out there, you can either lean back and say, Ha, ha, nothing happens, it's fine. Or, if you're like the right, you're a little bit more impatient and will take a little bit more control and say something more about this. Then the point of this ball is to play it to Giske, and then the question is: does the council take the ball? Or the council does what this government has unfortunately become aware of, that when you get the ball, you pass it on to others, preferably to the government, a bureaucrat, who you can choose to hide behind. Clearly, the status of maritime education today is that the industry says you need to have new education. The colleges say it – the colleges and county councils don't say it – but they are struggling with funding. They are struggling with the equipment, and if the Council of State does not see all the reports that have arrived, see the cry from the industry, see the shout from the colleges, and also see the cries from the associations, from the Federation of Machines, from the Association of Sea Officers, from the Federation of Shipowners, neither the Council of State nor the Stortinget do their job. Then I'll give the guess one more time: Regi!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1172	Like Else-May Botten, I must say that I appreciate the intense commitment of the interpellant to the maritime industry and wish him happiness in getting his party equally involved in this matter, in the net payroll issue, in having a non-nutritional industrial policy, in having a maritime strategy, in building a steady course, for the truth is that we from that party have not had the strongest alliance partners in the maritime work. But I hope that the inter-pellant's entry and engagement may make us get an even wider majority behind the Styrofoam course strategy that the department and government have laid down. So I think the interpellant gives a good idea of how things can get better, but he gives a wrong picture of what the state of things is. Maritime education is not entirely out of course at all. I believe that it is to ignore the great effort being made in the colleges, in the colleges – the cooperation that is taking place, and the efforts that are being made, not least by the companies themselves to provide training for young people. Considerable efforts are being made both by industry and by educational institutions to ensure that the industry has access to maritime competence. So I don't share this description of the business. I do not share this description of the industry, and I do not share this description of the educational institutions. On the contrary, the survey also shows that there is a lot of good going on, and the mapping we have carried out in cooperation with maritime samples is just to make what can be done even better. So you really do open doors when you say you have to get involved in this. This is referred to as the investigation, and the involvement and follow-up will be spread on many government governments, especially when the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Industry, on the education side and on the industry side respectively. We're going to keep working on maritime strategy. We're going to take with us the recordings that have come from the interpellant, and from those who have made contributions to the debate. I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of Knowledge also reads and listens to what is said from Stortinget, so that the recordings that have been made are also included here in the further work. That was also the purpose of the investigation. I want to remind you that it came in the spring of 2010. There's a certain time horizon here; it's hard to get things that you get a report on the spring of 2010, to become reality from the school year in the fall of 2010. Something takes a little longer to implement, but I know that the educational institutions themselves have read the report. They were involved in the investigation of it, and they use it in their work to get even better. In the seventh place, there is the interaction between them and the industry, not the path of nutrition, big business, government, department, college or college that is the solution. It's when the educational institutions, the teacher's powers and the professionals work directly and closely in the industry, when they work with the shipping companies, with the seafarers and with the organisations, that we get good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1183	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1189	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1249	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1259	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 2, 3, 4 and 5 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-03.ana.ud1572e1290	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
