ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e73	Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Knut Storberget on welfare leave from 2 January to 15 January 2012 from the representative of Eirik Sivertsen on parental leave from 9 January to 1 April 2012 from the representative of Susanne Bratli on study leave from 9 January to 16 January 2012 On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hedmark: Thor Lillehovde 9 January-12. January For Northern Ireland: Knut Petter Torgersen 9 January–30. March For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bård Langsävold 9 January–12. January
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e131	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e140	Today we have a proposal for a representative that Norway withdraws from ILO Convention No. 169, repeals the Finnish Law and terminates the Sámi language management area. There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which supports the refusal to endorse the proposal. I assume that the Progress Party itself will justify its views and proposals. Since the proposal is sufficiently extensive, the Committee decided to hold a hearing on the matter, see Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy § 18. The hearing was held on 27 October, with extensive participation from different environments. The hearing was very elucidating in relation to many of the premises and statements that are underlying the proposal for a representative. It is necessary to comment on some of these premises and justifications. The proposers write that Norway’s use of ILO Convention No. 169 have led to conflicts between people because of ethnicity. It is pointed out that this applies primarily to the creation of the Finnmark property and the Sameting. It is not that there have been no conflicts between Samer and the Nordics in the past. From the middle of the 1800s to the far up of the 1900s, a hard research policy aimed at forcing the Sami people to declare their identity. The whole thing culminated in the expansion of the Alta watercourse early in the 1980s, which was the beginning of the conversion of Norwegian policies towards the Sami people. In 1997, at the opening of the Sametinget, King Harald said: ‘The Norwegian State is founded on the territory of two peoples — the North and the Sami. Sami history is closely intertwined with Norwegian history. Today, we have to regret the injustice that the Norwegian State has previously inflicted on the Sami people through a hard research policy." That the proposers try to present it as if it were the Sameting and the ratification of ILO Convention No. 169 who have created conflicts is at best a oversimplification. Furthermore, it was claimed by the proposers that the area of Finnmarks property is covered, controlled by Sámi interests, and that the population of Finnmark is losing public access to nature, hunting and fishing rights, and that the Sámi minority has full control of natural resources. This is wrong. I can't understand how Storing representatives can claim this after reading the Finnmarks Act. The law is quite clear and explicit that the rights of Finnmark are linked to having a residence in the county, the municipality and any special local rights – regardless of whether you are Sami or Norwegian or for that matter Swedish. The Progress Party also points out that there is no scientific evidence that cohabitation came to Finnmark before the other population of the area. It's an irrelevant issue. What is crucial is that the Sami people were in the territory of the Kingdom at the time the borders of the nation were drawn. It's indisputable. It is also claimed that the continuation of the Sameting will be a burden on the international reputation of the country, and a comparison with the apartheid regime in South Africa is drawn. I do not think it is a comparison that serves as a credit to the proposers. Nobody, either at the hearing or others I have heard, has supported the view that this weakens Norway’s international reputation – on the contrary. On the same day as the Committee had a hearing on the matter, a press release came from UN High Commissioner for Human Rights by Special Rapporteur James Anaya, who states: «Norway could create to be the world leader it has become in the recognition and protection of the rights of indigenous peoples if the Norwegian National Parliament recommends the proposal of one of the largest political parties in the country, the Progress Party.» It is against this background that the proposers believe that Norway should terminate ILO Convention No. 169 and rather use other instruments to facilitate the development and strengthening of their own culture, language and business and social life. But the Progress Party does not suggest any other measures to secure the Sami culture, the Sami language or the business and social life. I have said to the media after the hearing in the case that I believe the proposal to the representatives of the Progress Party should be withdrawn. The basis — and the premises on which the proposal is based — is incorrect, as demonstrated by the consultation and letter of the Council of State. Since the proposal has not been withdrawn, I would like to take this opportunity to call on the proposers once again not to raise the proposal for voting today. Of course, the representatives are free to address their proposal, which has been legally tabled for consideration. In that case, I am pleased that there is an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which supports the view that the proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e172	It is nice that we are allowed to make suggestions in this room. It's high time to cancel ILO Convention No. 169, as our ratification of this Convention violates the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, skin colour, lineage or national or ethnic origin. If we're going to deal with the UN Convention, the ethnically-based coalition team is forbidden. The universal suffrage is a registration of ethnicity, which is contrary to the UN Convention. A combination – or for that matter any other thing – where the entrance ticket is conditional on racial affiliation, belongs to a thought from a time I do not wish to return to. Although the Colberg of the Workers' Party calls the Sameting the very diamond of our democracy, with today's co-op, it can never be anything but a gene-based democracy that reminds us more of cohesion than of equality and respect. The United Nations Conventions have been given precedence over national law in Norway, but they obviously do not work in practice. Then you can wonder how today's Finnish Law is. Almost everything that happens in Finnland somehow ends in a fight for rights – about the right to land and water. This is why land management and law are becoming particularly important. In the caste system established by the law, those who operate Sami reindeer belong to the high caste, or the nobility. At the same time, Section 32 of the Rein driftsgesetz states that only those who are of rein driftsssamic descent are entitled to notice. They're assigned a fixed position on the FeFo board, or almost 20 pst. by the votes cast. In addition, reindeer farmers in Finnmark can, by their vote to the Sametinget and the county council, agree to determine how the Finnmarks Act and thus almost all outlanding in Finnmark is managed. The interjector is those of Sami descent, but they are not reindeer-farming. They have been allocated three permanent seats on the FeFo Board, designated by the Sameting: those living in Finnmark may, by voting for both the Sameting and the County Council, be involved in determining the further management. The low caste is those who are not of Sami descent, which can only affect administration through the county elections, and who again make up three people in FeFo. One can safely say that it is a statutory, permanent, pedigree-related appointment, where ethnicity is crucial. In addition, Section 1 of the Finnish Law states that the purpose of the Act is to manage Finnmark counties, «especially as a basis for Sami culture, reindeer management, land use, nutrition and social life». No other peoples are meant, despite the fact that they have lived other peoples in the area both for the same time and longer than together. Does the Storting really mean that we are doing a fair treatment of the majority of the population of Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e189	The right supports the broad majority in this case and has not – and will not – intend to – break the Constitution, international law and the human rights obligations of Norway. As the case rapporteur for the Finnmark Act, I would like it to be quoted, but it should be quoted correctly. Point 1 of the Finnland Act reads as follows: ‘The purpose of the law is to facilitate the management of land and natural resources in the provinces of Finland in a balanced and ecologically sustainable manner for the benefit of the citizens of the county and in particular as a basis for Sami culture, clean-up, land use, nutrition and social life.’ So it's an ethnic neutral law, which was passed after a long debate and a lot of fighting, but which had a broad majority behind it in the county of Finnmark, which had a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, and which had a unanimous unification behind it. The conflict over the extension of the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse made it clear that there was a great need in Norway to clarify the state’s relationship with Sami culture and legal status. After this dispute, there was a broad consensus that it was necessary to find out which place to have together in the Norwegian community. There was also a need for a more detailed identification of the specific legal conditions relating to Sami culture and activities in the areas that have traditionally co-populated. Then came the Samerrecht Committee. They were clear that there were two ways to go. It was a legal road, one in which the same and others – women, nordics, others in Finnland – who had legal claims for either operating rights, rights of use or ownership, could walk the way of justice, as they have done, for example. in Canada, where politicians are constantly hanging behind, and where it is the Supreme Court through its judicial decisions that have promoted the rights of indigenous people. In Norway, we chose another route. We chose a political path, we chose a democratic path. I think Norway will stand on that, because then we avoid a long-term legal process, where each claim is to enter into a legal process. Instead, the Finnish Law has been passed, and we have a commission attached to the one to clarify the rights. I think that's a more neat way to go, because we know that the decisions taken at the Supreme Court in Norway were in the direction of dating having rights of use that they could have been recognised through the courts. The right has no desire to have a court order in every case on human rights and international law. That is where we believe that we, as a Parliament, must go ahead and kneel down some principles. That's what the Storting has done. There is also no need to repeal the important decisions taken, both on the establishment of the Sameting, the Constitutional Law and the Finnmark Act. Language requirements within each municipality are determined by the individual municipality, and the right is dependent on a municipal autonomy. We are following that they should be able to choose the target form in the municipality, whether they should have nynosic or bookkeeping. We are also followers of the fact that the municipalities that want it can have Sami language as an official language. On the right, this proposal by the Progress Party rejects and believes that it is a fundamental breach of the traditions of Norway. One would be very little proud if one were to go down from this pulpit and said that now we will be involved in breaking our international obligations, breaking with the UN Declaration of Human Rights and Norway joining out of the world community where we ourselves are active drivers to get to a better world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e211	The central party supports the broad majority in the case. The Centre Party will ensure the livelihoods and culture of the indigenous peoples of Norway and the opportunities for cultural and material development of the peoples on their own premises in line with international agreements and conventions. The rights of indigenous peoples, their condition and the exercise of their culture are a Community responsibility in which both Norwegian and Sami authorities are to contribute. The Sami culture must be safeguarded, developed and disseminated to the rest of the population in order to increase the level of knowledge on behalf of its inhabitants and to provide Sami nutrition and culture. There are a number of reasons why the government and the Central Party do not want to follow up on the proposal for a representative. I would like to refer to the Basic Law § 110a, which states: "It is up to the authorities of the State to bring matters to justice so that the Sami People's Group can ensure and develop its language, culture and social life." The Law specifies the content of the general principles established by Section 110 of the Constitution and the Sameeting was established by the adoption of the Law, while the linguistic rules were incorporated into the Law in 1990. The changes proposed in the proposal for a representative will be very problematic in relation to the Constitution § 110a. The representative proposal is also not consistent with the government's common policy. While recognising the need for specific rules in order to protect the Sami population, the Government has the primary objective of caring for the entire population through the general legislative instruments, in order to ensure a secure future for Sami language, culture and society. The merger is very important for the Centre Party, which brings together the representative body and the main premiscible supplier of common policies. In terms of language, a living Sami language is a central part of the Sami culture, and the rules of the Law on languages give citizens linguistic rights in relation to different public bodies. What is perhaps the most demanding thing for many people is the Finnish law and its practice. This is what the setting says - in the letter from the Council of State: ‘However, the law contains some guarantees that it will be taken sufficiently’ — I stress adequately — ‘regarding Sami interests before decisions are taken that may have an impact on Sami culture, reindeer management and the like in outland areas’. The central one here is seaworthy how the concept of ‘sufficient’ is addressed. There are different nutritionists in the Sami population. Not least the sea-samples have their own interests which are different from those of the reindeer-farming centres. We have important issues related to business combinations in the Sami regions. For the centre party, it is important to see the different Sami nutritional practices in the context. It is also important to have a dynamic view of the exercise of activity in these areas and of the Sami activity, as in other areas. Therefore, I would warn you that one has a too static consideration of what the Finnmark property can be used for. If one does not adopt a more dynamic attitude to this, it could lead to conflicts that could, in consequence, weaken the entire structure that we have established in Norway, with strong Sámi interests. It's important for the Central Party to tell us about from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e234	Today we are dealing with what – as a matter of fact, I must say, in my time at Stortinget – has become a ritual proposal from the Progress Party. And at regular intervals, the proposal to shut down the whole thing is going to happen. At regular intervals, the proposal to terminate ILO Convention No. 169. It is also true that we have a real discussion about this and take the proposal seriously, since the Progress Party was, after all, the second largest party in the last major elections in Norway, and since discussions in Norway are noticed in the rest of the world. For that very reason, it is important that we take the discussion in a proper way here in the Stortinget. I just want to go into some of the points that have been raised in the setting, and where I think the Progress Party says things that are wrong, and where the perspectives that are taken into account are crazy. Firstly, the Progress Party says that they note that, on the part of the majority, it is said that it is fully possible to maintain the interest of partners without ILO Convention No. 169. So they're suggesting that we can cancel it out. Yes, but it would be a betrayal of all indigenous peoples internationally that we are fighting for. There's something about making sure to say and do the same in the rest of the world as what we do in Norway. It's very easy for people in Norway to point out and say it's very important to take care of indigenous people's interests elsewhere, but here at home we don't intend to commit ourselves to anything. This is the attitude of the Progress Party. Now I've never seen any special commitment to indigenous peoples elsewhere in the world by the Progress Party either, but it's clear that when we, as the nation of Norway, show that Norway is able to accede to an international convention to underpin the rights of non-people worldwide and at the same time demonstrate that we are properly implementing the intentions of the international conventions. through the establishment of the Sametinget, the decision of the Finnish Law in Stortinget – against the votes of the Progress Party a few years ago – is to build up under an international legal order. It is an advantage for all indigenous peoples around the world. The second is the claim that it is a special treatment for co-workers. No, it's not. It's also being refuted by the Council of State. It is also very clear in the reference made by the rapporteur, from the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. It is very strange that the Progress Party chooses a legal approach to this and says that the rules we have in Norway are contrary to human rights when the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights points out that this is contrary to what exists in international conventions. The fact that ILO Convention No. 169 is also a UN Convention, a Convention on International Law, is important to underline, and something that the Progress Party obviously has not achieved. I notice that the Progress Party believes that the law we have introduces a apartheid regime in Norway. Now it is very strange that the Progress Party feels a need to distance itself from apartheid all the time the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party are leading the Anders Langes Party to a strong reduction in taxes, taxes and public intervention and everything else received money from the South Africa regime to run election campaigns in Norway. Then there's someone who has benefited from apartheid, it's the Progress Party, and it's strange that they want to distance themselves from it. But it is possible that progress can also be made in the attitude of the Progress Party. The last one to be withdrawn from the Progress Party relates to the international reputation. The international reputation will just decline if we set the trend in reverse, as the Progress Party will. The fact that we both internationally raise the tab to support the rights of indigenous peoples and human rights abroad and at the same time do something at home is what gives Norway international prestige. Should we say that, first of all, we are withdrawing from the Convention because it is fun that the rest of the world thinks something fine, but here in Norway we are best governed by our own and refuse to support the international work that exists and in addition we follow up the proposal of the Progress Party to abolish the Sameting and change the whole Finnish Law, it would really show that we were a country that went back when it came to human rights and indigenous rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e255	The Christian People's Party believes, like the majority in this Chamber, that Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmen, and that both peoples have the same right and the same requirements to develop their culture and language. This is at the root of the common policy. The fact that the majority of cohabitants in the world live in Norway gives the State Norway specific obligations to Sami cultural development in a broad sense. The Christian People's Party will build up under the diversity of the Sami society. Common policies require follow-up at both municipal, county and national levels. The merger is a democratically elected body for the Sami population and must therefore be the government's leading pre-missive provider on Sami issues. Issues of self-determination and assessment of the role of the pooling should be a dynamic, continuous process in which the content is not determined once and for all. The original population dimension of processes in northern areas requires cooperation at several levels, both within the Sami community and with the rest of the population in the northern regions, the national state and with industry. The Christian People's Party believes that the Sameting must involve the entire Sami community in the processes of the northern regions. Policy is about raising some cultures and individual populations. It is a positive matter to discriminate against people for democratic reasons. What has happened to the Sami culture in Norway over a long period of time obliges the Norwegian community, the Norwegian community, to correct the mistake made in the regulation process. The peculiarity of indigenous peoples must be ensured by passing on their way of life, culture and values to new generations. Many challenges lie at the intersection of Sami industrial interests, general industrial development, the use of natural resources and land management in the areas of Sami settlement. Central authorities have a separate responsibility to preserve and further develop Sami culture and to resolve the conflicts at this point of intersection. The conflict over the extension of the Alta watercourse in the 1980s made it clear that in Norway there was a great need to clarify the state's relations with Sami culture and legal status. After this dispute, there was a broad consensus that it was necessary to find out what place together had and would have in the Norwegian community. There was also a need for a more detailed identification of the specific legal conditions associated with Sami culture and activities in the areas of common traditional population. The result of this recognition was the creation of the Joint Court Committee, the adoption of the Law on the Law on the Constitutional Law on the Obligations of the State towards the Sami People's Party and the Finnish State Act. The need to clarify the rights of groups to land and water in Finnmark was an important factor behind the Finnmark Act, but – and it is important to stress not least in relation to the Progress Party – the law is ethnically neutral and does not give together any special rights to the land of Finnmark. The Finnmarks Act takes good care of all Finnmark residents. It's not coverage to characterize the law as unbalanced. Moreover, it is important for me and for the Christian People's Party to point out that human rights for the protection of minorities have just been granted in order to protect against abuse by the majority. It is sad, in my opinion and in the view of the Christian People's Party, that the Progress Party does not recognise the rights of all together, in line with this fundamental principle. The Finnmarks Act recognised the fact that co-workers have acquired rights to land and water in Finnmark. The total failure of the Progress Party on issues relating to minority protection principles clearly shows that the party is not willing to recognise the rights of indigenous peoples in Norway. I was in doubt whether I should comment on the apartheid comparison that is in the case proposal from the Progress Party, or whether I should let it pass to save this pulpit for such completely historyless and remote comparisons. Now that I have mentioned it, I will state that I am taking a strong distance from this comparison, and I hope that the Progress Party will leave such comparisons on a later occasion – it will serve the debate, and I believe it will serve the Progress Party as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e276	Progress party representatives Gjermund Hagesetter, Per-Willy Amundsen, Åge Starheim and Jan-Henrik Frederiksen have proposed to abandon most of the actions, central institutions and instruments in the area of co-ordination and co-policy. As I made clear in my letter to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, for several reasons it is not up to the government to follow up any of the proposals that have been promoted. I am pleased to see that all the other members of the Committee are also very clearly opposed to the proposal. The statements and justifications of the Party bear the hallmark of a number of misunderstandings and misconceptions. So let me try to figure out some of them. I want to start with the obvious starting point: the Same is an indigenous people in Norway. It is stated in the Constitution, it follows from ILO Convention No. 169, and both the ILO bodies and the UN Committee on Human Rights have made this clear in their opinions. It doesn't matter in this context who came first. What is crucial is who lived in the area when the borders of the state of Norway were drawn. We know for sure that both Samer and other Nordics did. Samer and the Nordics live side by side in Norwegian society. The representatives of the Progress Party point out that joint ‘acts in the same business’ as other Nordics. So let me make it quite clear: Samemen are no less indigenous because they adapt their lifestyle and their business to modern Norwegian society. On the contrary, it helps to make the Sami culture more robust, as it enables the Sami society to survive. The aim of the government's common policy is to facilitate conditions for a living Sami culture, a living Sami language and Sami industries for the future. This is of great importance to the Sami population, but also to us who belong to the majority population. The Sami culture makes our common culture richer, and that's what we're going to take care of. A living Sami culture, a living Sami language and social life is not something that comes of itself. The merger makes an important effort in this way. The Sami language management area is also central to the maintenance and further development of Sami languages, and the Finnish Law facilitates Sami culture, business and social life in our northernmost country. This framework has been put in place following long and thorough investigations, consultations and consultations. Developments have been supported and continued by changing governments, the Sameting, Finnmark County Council and a broad and solid majority in Stortinget. Formally, Norway has the option of withdrawing from ILO Convention No. 169 by 5 September 2012. The government has no intention of availing itself of this possibility. The development of Norwegian rights and common policies has been in line with our international obligations, but not only because of them. Regardless of the framework of international law, the existing common rights and policies have a solid democratic foundation. It also shows the majority of the committee in its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e293	It's being opened for line change. The first replicator is Morten Ørsal Johansen. In this context, we might also be able to clarify whether the Progress Party wishes to address the proposals included in the vote. Ørsal Johansen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e298	It states that the majority of the committee refers to the state of Norway being originally established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmann. When you talk about the Norwegian people, you talk about all Norwegian citizens, and this understanding is quite clear. Samer is also a Norwegian citizen, and is therefore part of the Norwegian people. I do not fully understand what is in the wording 'Samian people', so I would like to ask the Council of State if she can explain to me what is meant by that phrase 'Samian people'. At the same time, I would like to ask whether it involves some commitments, the granting of new rights to co-determination, based on the observation that the state of Norway is originally established in the territory of two peoples, that is, Samer and Nordmann.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e304	The same lived in Norway when the Norwegian borders were drawn in the 1700s. That's why, in the Constitution and in other contexts, we say that the Norwegian state is established in the territory of two people, Samer and Nordman. Then the representative asked Örsal Johansen if there were any new rights involved. That is what the Stortinge determines by the law that the Stortinge always provides, together with any legal decisions that may come into the matter. That's why we put down the Finnmark Commission, which is to map the rights that are, and which the representative of Greece foreshadowed when the Stortinget dealt with the issue of Finnmark law, it relies mainly on collective rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e311	The next representative is Per-Willy Amundsen. To the extent that it has been clarified in the Progress Party, the further debate might have served to clarify whether the proposals should be addressed – that is a very central topic in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e314	I shall deal with our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e319	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e322	I hear the Council of State justify the special rights of co-workers in Norway and the definition as a population that they lived there when the borders were drawn in the middle of the 1700s – if I don't remember wrong. The problem is that several groups of people lived within Norway’s borders when they were drawn. The women were one of them. They migrated early to Norway and have lived in Norway over several centuries, in line with Sami and other Norwegians. So I don't fully understand this. Can the Council of State explain the difference between the fact that the women moved and lived within the Norwegian territory when the borders were drawn and that the same thing was done by Samer? Why do you distinguish between the two groups? Then why don't you define the women as a people of your own? This doesn't make any sense. Can the Council of State clarify this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e329	Samemen have a special status as a group that has lived in the area for a very long time and worked in the Finnland area and in other parts of the northern areas over a long time. When it was decided to establish the Sameting and to give together the democratic body that the Sameting is, it was based on the long relationship they had to the area. I have no intention – nor is it the intention of the government – to raise the women's questions in the same way that you have done with the Sami.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e334	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e337	Today, the Progress Party is promoting a case in which it is proposed to close all co-politics in Norway. It's very dramatic, and I'm very happy that only the Progress Party is behind these proposals. The Progress Party prefers to use words such as ‘special treatment’ and ‘special rights’ when it comes to policies for groups they do not want to support. The truth is, however, that policies are basically about the management of both rights and privileges, general arrangements and special schemes and non-discrimination and special treatment – depending on the social sphere in which we move, and on what the goal is. We have to discriminate from time to time in order to achieve equality and equivalency. This applies to political work in general and not just to common policies. So the question is, what's going on, for example? The whole thing that's so provocative for the Progress Party? The merger is primarily an advisory, consultative body on matters relating specifically to the Sami population. The merger only has the right to decide matters that the Storing has delegated to the Federation, as the Storing delegates power and authority in a number of cases to other administrative bodies as well. The proposers claim that Finnmark’s property has resulted in natural resources being controlled by Sami interests. It's very strange, which also many people have been in today. Finnmark Property Board consists of three members elected by Finnmark County, and three elected by Sametinget. They are to administer the legal provisions of the Finnish Law, which is thus the law in force in the field. Paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Finnish Law specifically state the exploitation of natural resources, such as the right to hunting, fishing, the plucking of moles, the maintenance and other uses of the land. The legal text states that all residents of the Finnish State and the Finnish State have the right to use these resources and that the Finnish State can grant the same type of rights to people living outside the State. So it's obvious that this is true regardless of whether people are Sami, female, Tamil or ethnic Norwegian. As far as I know, there has also been no disagreement between the various board members of the Finnmark property on the interpretation of these law paragraphs. So a little story on the tap: a few years ago I was sitting in Mollisjok's mountain room, in the heart of Finnmark's wit, and talking to Klemet, one of the seats on Mollisjok. We talked about everything that had happened in the Sami communities in the last few years, while the Klemet believed that he was basically not interested in politics, and that he could also from time to time disagree very much with the Sameting decisions. But then he said: Nevertheless, I believe that the establishment of the Sameting was a concrete proof that the great community has shown respect for us, and respect is absolutely essential for a human being to have self-respect. Respect and self-respect – two important concepts expressed by a Sami man who had lived his whole life on a small farm in the heart of Finnmark. He knew what he was talking about. I am pleased that a large majority on the Stortinget today, through the examination of this Document 8, shows that we know that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e354	This has so far been a very interesting debate, which has not given so many answers to some questions, among other things. the questions about who is the Sami people. When the ILO Convention was ratified, it was said here that it did not in itself create conflicts between those who are Norwegian and Sami. It may in some ways be correct, because many of the conflicts have existed for a long time. But what it has contributed to is a conflict between cohabitants and cohabitants – between the different groups of cohabitants. There are several groups of people in the Sami population, and there have been conflicts, because there are a few of the Sami population standing in the Sami population and can vote in the merger elections. Those who are then outside feel very outside, among other things. school and seamen, who are not part of the good company. So it's strange to say that it hasn't created conflicts, when it's actually created conflicts – and sometimes big conflicts. It is also interesting to hear that some people claim that with these proposals we are breaking the Constitution. Then I would like to ask: what paragraph of the Constitution is that we break? As far as I know, there is nothing specific about this in the Norwegian Constitution. So to that with the rights of indigenous people. Then ILO Convention No. 169 was ratified, there was a revision of ILO Convention No. 107, and in NOU 1980:53 became ILO Convention No. 107 recorded on a broad basis and discussed. It was then found that Norway does not have a special indigenous population under what is described as an indigenous population in these conventions. This has not been amended by ILO Convention No. 169. So it would have been interesting to have a review and that you could have got a NOU where you had asked the right questions about ILO Convention No. 169 – to see what you came up with. Finally, I must be allowed to contact the representative Holmås, who claims that the Progress Party has received money from the apartheid regime in South Africa in order to run an election campaign. How does the representative Holmås propose to make such claims? It is that if a lie is repeated often enough, it becomes an established truth. I am not going to say from this pulpit that the representative Holmås comes with lies, but it is as close as it can be at all. There is nothing to suggest that the Progress Party has received such money. We have never received such money, and I would have asked for such claims from representatives of the Storting from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e367	The President will have asked that the word ‘ lie’ be used as a description of opponents with views in a political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e370	I'm a proud Finnmark who lives in a multicultural state. But according to the Progress Party, I live with my family in a state of ethnic conflict. I must be honest and say that in my everyday life I do not have the same perception of the level of conflict as the proposers want to describe. But we humans are different – things are perceived differently – and through the contributions of the representative, Fredriksen, we were told about the differences from the pulpit here. The proposers believe that Norway’s use of our international rights enshrined in the ILO Convention has led to conflicts between people because of ethnicity. It is tempting – even if it is not Question Time – to ask the proposers to explain some of the conflicts to which they are referring. The Finnmark Act is also said to be conflict-making, and Finnmark’s property has led to discrimination between Samer and the rest of Finnmark’s population. Everything was so much better before, it was claimed, then all the inhabitants of Finnmark had the same rights to the natural resources of the area, while today it is so that the area is controlled by Sami interests, and we others have to give up our rights. Several have claimed from the pulpit here today that this is absolutely not true. I would say from the pulpit: we who live in Finnmark have equal rights, regardless of ethnicity. But despite the fact that it's black on white, it's sometimes claimed with weight from the pulpit that the Finnish law gives rights together. I have repeatedly challenged the special representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, who is also one of the proposers, and asked him to give examples of what is happening and where it happens. I'm still waiting, but I'm recording that the claims from the Progress Party are still being upheld. I have often wondered about the responsibility that central politicians have to communicate the decision of Storting. And why does the Progress Party choose this strategy not to tell what is relevant in the Finnland Act? There are different opinions about the Finnmark Act in Finnmark, which I do not hide. That's why it's up to us who sit as central politicians, at least to say what's right from the decisions the Storting has made. If we do that, we are all involved in dampening the recording of possible conflicts. We all have to take that responsibility, including the Progress Party. Using the concept of apartheid in this debate does not dampen the level of conflict. The Progress Party has said that they don't have anything against each other – they just want them well – and in this care they want the Sameting, they want the Finnmark property back to Statskog, and we're going out of ILO Convention No. 169. I think it is fair that the Progress Party is working politically to remove the Sameting and FeFo as well as the withdrawal of the ILO. But winning with their arguments by creating disintegration in the population is, in my view, a dangerous way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e388	What made me speak was the use of the word ‘race’ by the representative Fredriksen. Race can be at best neutral, but it can certainly also be quite negatively charged. For those who had to be in doubt, the word of race was heard acting together with expressions like throwing, low throw, apartheid – which is the idea of just separating people from races. I don't think this is worthy of the National Assembly. Race is an out-of-date concept, biologically and politically, and should have been with the experience we have from the last century. So breed is the term for a group of individuals of a species with certain particular common features that distinguish them from other individuals of the same species, and that these common traits are hereditary. When you use the racial term, it's just to figure out that this is where you can never separate. On the other hand, it makes sense to talk about population groups. We have to be able to use that in the administration and when we plan. Population groups are also quite fine to distinguish by ethnicity – for what is ethnicity? Then so-called race is just a sub-component, because ethnicity is a collective identity that the group itself has, and that is not necessarily defined by others. It's a community, most often of an assumed common origin, and that's what keeps this group together. It can be cultural, linguistic, economic, historical, even religious and political interests – plus values – that hold an ethnic group together. But maybe we should clear the word "race" away. What we are really discussing here, and what I think the Progress Party is in its full right to disagree with others, is in principle to have legislation that distinguishes. There we have experience from other types of laws that distinguish people living outside and inside, because someone has been there first and has had a business that has been tradition-bound. In this context, you also need to read the Finnmark Act. That's where I think the representative of Helleland put it all in place. If you read the one that the representative of Greece has done – not unnaturally that he has done it when he was the case rapporteur for the law – then there is no reference to race, and hardly enough ethnicity. So let's clear these antiquated terms out of the debate. I also believe that, as elected representatives, we have a duty to use a language in the national parliament that builds bridges between contradictions, identifies contradictions of interest and discuss how to overcome them, but does not use loaded words that create artificial distinctions between good norwegians wherever we may come from. So I encourage the representative Fredriksen to come up and say that the Progress Party for the future does not use the word ‘race’ in this context either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e401	When I read this proposal from the Progress Party, I am truly sorry. I had thought that in 2011 we had come further with this debate and this gust of the past than the Progress Party claims. I have respect for the fact that there may be different views on how indigenous politics is practiced, but I'm startled that the second largest party in the Storting will break down everything that concerns Sami rights. I also find it sad to hear how the representative Fredriksen is today trying to create a conflict between people. Sami settlements in the North Callot existed before the formation of the states of Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia, as the Council of State said. Since Sámi settlement areas were integrated into all four countries, cohabitation could be regarded as indigenous people in each of their countries. The Sami peoples are traditionally resident from Hedmark in the south to the Kola peninsula in the east, with a core area in the inner parts of the North Callot and in the fjords of North Norway. History tells us that the oldest written source of cohabitation dates back to 98 C.E. Later, there is a lot of good evidence of the presence of the group and their professional competence both at sea and on land. The official Norwegian policy towards the Joint Committee changed after 1945. In Norway, the right to preserve and develop Sami languages and culture was officially recognised in the 1960s. The merger was opened on 9 October 1989. As you know, both Sweden and Finland have their own combination. Although the research process was strong for over 100 years, there were still many who opposed it. This has been important for the preservation of both language, culture and crafts. Norway ratified ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous peoples on 20 June 1990. Norway has thus established an indigenous policy that is worthy of our country. I'm glad that the Progress Party is alone on the Stortinget to want to break all this down again. I hope that the party of progress after this puts it away as the representative Holmås described as well as a ritual.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e420	My back is going down cold when I hear comments from representatives of the Progress Party. It uses words that I associate with completely different times and completely different situations, and that I don't think belong in a domestic political discussion – words like ‘apartheid’ and ‘low throw’. My main concern is to help identify that the Sami area is much larger than Finnmark, and that these issues actually concern large parts of the country. I come from the southern Sami area, which extends from the Salt Mountain in the north to Elgå in Hedmark. The midterms have their special challenges, and they do because they are a minority in the minority. Southern Sami culture and Southern Sami languages are threatened. It is mainly due to large distances and due to challenges in reindeer management. For it is that reindeer in the southern Sami region is closely linked with southern Sami language and southern Sami culture. Purification is one of three important prerequisites for maintaining and strengthening the Southern Sami language and culture. In fact, the other two key assumptions are the Sameting, which has helped to raise the Sami issues high on the agenda in the Southern Sami area as well, and an active policy of municipalities and county municipalities. In the North-Trondelag, there is a dialogue forum between state politicians and organisations and the Southern Sami environment, and there is a cooperation agreement between the county councils in the Southern Sami region and the Sameting. Southern Sami language is a small language. It is on the UNESCO list and is classified as a seriously threatened language, and therefore the management system for Sami languages is important. Snåsa municipality and Nord-Trøndelag County is already integrated into the Sami language management area from 2008, and now Røyrvik municipality in Nord-Trøndelag is waiting to be integrated into the same area. In fact, they are disappointed that they have not already come along, but there are signs that they are imminent. For both these municipalities and for the county, this is a result of an active and conscious policy to help maintain and maintain an important part of the identity of all of us and an important contribution to our common culture. The connection between reindeer and southern Sami languages and southern Sami culture is great, and so far we have defined predators to be the greatest threat to southern Sami culture and language, because it threatens reindeer. Now we can establish that it is the Progress Party that is the greatest threat to Southern Sami language and Southern Sami culture. I am pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is voting against the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e433	Splitting among the population, as many claim we stand for, was already introduced at the end of the 1980s. We must not forget that 80 pst. of the Finnmark population was opposed to the introduction of a merger. 17 out of 19 municipalities responded. The county countered, and the county countered. So if there's something that's been able to divide its own population, it's the choices you chose to make in the 1980s -- and it wasn't the Progress Party that was behind them. But when you think about a little bit of history, and you see that someone gets both the combination and the one and the other right, while others don't get it, that's how you read a little bit in a Norwegian dictionary, you find out that there were actually women who founded Karasjok between 1820 and 1840. That's where the Sameting is today. Greece was concerned that the law, when adopted, had a broad majority behind it. Well, it's probably the way that the Right in Finnmark was against the law, and since the Right proposes to consider local democracy at any time, at least it's so that it wasn't done in this case. I don't want to go back to a time when people were separated by ethnicity – I don't want to go back there. But then it's also very sad to see that others add up to a process that actually makes us about to end up there. When it's claimed from this pulpit that we don't have conflicts related to FeFo, the Finnland Act, it's going to be completely wrong. I get messages from people in Northern Ireland, in Troms, in Finnmark, from Alta, from Star Island to Nesseby – there are legal cases everywhere about rights. Sheep farmers have no rights whatsoever. They have hundreds of reindeer standing on their pastures, and no one raises a finger to defend their interests. Here is one industry that has been granted special rights. They have monopoly, and all the others are more or less lawless. I guess that's not what was the starting point of the law – but that's what it's been.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e444	The proposers have a comprehensive proposal. Norway shall denounce its participation in the ILO Convention ‘on first and best occasions’. The Finnmark Act shall be repealed. The merger shall be brought down if the Progress Party receives what they want, and shall provide me with the management area of the Sami language decommissioned – and more. The proposals of the Progress Party must be characterised as a cross-border step backwards for Sami culture, language and society. There is a tick in the disc's suggestion. We should be glad that it only gets the Progress Party's votes. If it had gone through, it would have been one way to ridicule Norway. Proposals provide a basis for discrimination. What is historically right and very problematic is that Sami culture, language and society have been ignored in Norway. Norway is based on the territory of two people, we've settled. There is little doubt that the Sami people have been deprived of the ability to administer their own language, culture and identity. Historically, Norway has had many sins that it has been important to help clean up. What the Progress Party calls discrimination is, in reality, taking the Sami, ethnic and cultural aspects seriously. Then you need a right and a right that makes sense. There is a need for positive incentives and measures for individual groups to create a basis for equality, democracy and equal treatment. Without measures to preserve Sami language and culture, we risk compromising our responsibility. Samane was an indigenous people when the nation of Norway was formed. The Norwegian society shall provide the Sami people with opportunities within the Norwegian majority society to develop their own society, culture and language. The Sami language is fundamental to the preservation of the Sami culture. The language is, as many have mentioned, threatened. Historically, it has been a research policy that has threatened Sami language and culture to such an extent that it has threatened Sami identity. That's why it's a self-evident responsibility for us to facilitate the development of Sami language and culture. The party's proposal for progress is so comprehensive and concretely hostile that it is difficult to take seriously. Where is the Progress Party prepared to strengthen the Sami? There's nothing set and nothing heard. The Progress Party should eventually be brought to an end with its constant results against Sami identity. President, Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e461	The way minorities are treated is a measure of how civilised a society is. The words are Ghandis. The history of Norway's treatment of cohabitation is a story with many dark sides. The research policy was to make the most of the Norwegian community. The tools were the school and the church. The stories of Sami children who received all the education in a language they did not understand, and who were punished when they spoke their own, are many and heartbreaking and fortunately difficult to understand today. In the name of Christianity, irreplaceable cultural treasures were destroyed. In our words of our day, we would call this policy assimilation. The research policy has been successful: a large proportion of the cohesive population today have no relationship with the Sami culture and no Sami language. Many take a distance from and feel ashamed of their roots. Sami languages have disappeared in large areas, and in international context, all Sami languages are today considered as threatened or extinct. UNESCO considers pitesamic and umesamic as extinct, lulesamic and southern Sami as severely threatened, while northern Sami is threatened. Our generation will be judged by how we take care of these languages, on history and how it is handed over to our descendants. The proposal we are discussing today is an attack on the tools that the Sami people and the Norwegian community have jointly developed to protect an important part of our history. Oslo is perhaps the largest co-municipality in the country. In November, Oslo Municipality and Sametinget concluded an agreement to address the challenges of the Sami population in Oslo – language, education and care of the elderly. In a dementia situation, it's not uncommon for people to fall back into their first language. The understanding of this patient group is about dignity and treating everyone equally. Putting aside language and culture doesn't give equality or justice. It is remarkable and sad that Stortinget's second largest party makes the majority of the population a victim of a misguided policy. The use of the word ‘apartheid’ speaks for itself. The representative, Ørsal Johansen, has asked that the word be used in a different context, but does not hesitate to use it politically. It is clearly necessary to remind the Progress Party of the massive abuses to the black population in South Africa, but there is no time to go further. To equate the necessary liberalism of the Norwegian society meets our Sami minority with, and apartheid is to completely turn things upside down. I agree with the rapporteur's good summary: the proposal and the apartheid comparison serve the Progress Party to a small extent. Now we have just heard the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen worry about conflicts between the Sami and the Nordics, but the jam has done its own thing here today to cultivate and strengthen these conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e480	I thought I'd give the president a little example of how the Biggest's work shouldn't be done. I assume the President has experienced it earlier. I have an example from the 1989-1990 session when the Stortinget dealt with Innst. S. No 197, concerning the accession of the ILO Convention. What happened was that a matter came very quickly from the Council of State – on 18 May 1990. It was treated at express speed. In fact, it did not take 14 days before the committee had the ‘fulfilled’ setting. The majority had a debate – and joined unanimous ILO Convention No. 169. The case-rapporteur at the time – not unknown – was Karita Bekkemelm. She said something very interesting in her dossier, which I think we should remember. She said the following: «The Convention may not be considered as requiring special rights for the indigenous peoples.» Interesting – that is the true opposite that has happened. Jussprofessor Carl August Fleischer – considered this to be the case – has stated that the Stortinget was led behind the light these days, not doing its work with the heavy one should have had, because it was only in express travel that the matter was carried out through the Stortinget. It's sad. It has also set out the list for the further development of common policies. It is not accidental that neither Sweden, Finland nor Russia – other countries where Samer lives – have joined the same convention. They spent a little more time on it, they understood the problem, they understood that they were in the process of imposing special rights for people on an ethnic basis. Neither Finland nor Sweden – and not even Russia – could acknowledge anything like this. In Norway, we did. It was a piece of work by the National Assembly of the country, when it was not realized that it was being led behind the light, as I perceive it has become obvious, when the case-rapporteur at the time thought that this had nothing to do with special rights at all. President - I'm redrawing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e500	First I want to join the representative Tetzschner's clear rejection of the use of the racial concept. It should simply not come from this pulpit. I suggest we pull it out in the hall and hunt it to the woods. What's the same thing? There were some people who asked questions about it. What makes Samer a people? Someone brought this in with women. Now I don't think we should set up population groups against each other, but there are two different starting points for these populations. The Sami people were in the 1700s, when the borders of the state were drawn up, constituted as a separate population through a common language, a peculiar, common culture, a defined way of life at the time – and partly now also – based on nomadic reindeer and several social systems that were specific to the Sami population and which made the Sami people separate from the rest of the Norwegian population. Women as a group of people were not constituted in the same way at this time – and perhaps not later either. The large group of women, i.e. emigrators from Finland, came later, they came into pots, and they came individually. This I know something about, my grandfather was one of those who came from the Torne Valley. Women are a very important national minority that we need to support, they have a culture that is important to fend for, and help to live, but who have a different starting point than together. The representative Fredriksen is talking about reindeer and conflicts with other industries. Yes, he may be right that there are conflicts, but conflicts between industries we have many places in the country, both on land and at sea. We must be able to address and resolve such conflicts, even in this context, without the Progress Party throwing down everything that the Sami people have achieved, and that we, as a nation, can be proud that we have achieved, on behalf of all of us. I've lived long enough to remember how Samer was looked at, viewed and talked about. Samer at my age probably remembers it even better than what I do. I'll never go back to that time. We need to protect what we've achieved in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e515	I am not going to extend the debate substantively, because I think the representatives of the Progress Party have presented our position in an excellent way. But a statement by the representative Heikki Holmås has led me to take the floor. He makes a statement that is not only monstrous; it is also undocumented and untrue. So it's a claim that the Progress Party in its early history should have been funded by the apartheid regime. In fact, the representative Holmås comes from a party that has a long history of visiting and interacting with regimes with dubious history. There are even gifts from SF at the museum to Kim Il Sung. In this way, perhaps the representative Holmås should know what he is talking about. But this statement is false, and it remains false. Outside this hall I would use a completely different term, and I'm probably going to do that too. The progress party has an open history. I think even we were the first party to deliver all our historical documents to the National Archives. We have handed over everything, both correspondence, accounts and protocols, from the foundation of the party up to modern times. Our story has even been reviewed by external historians, who have also found no trace of documents that would indicate that the representative Heikki Holmås is right. I will be allowed to challenge the representative Holmås, whom I also see asked for the floor, to go to this pulpit and document his claim, or to appear forever as one who spoke falsely from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e524	The President allows himself to recall that the issue currently under consideration is ILO Convention No. 169, and that the debate is about the issue that is being debated, so that we do not overly focus on the current or previous funding of political parties, even if I understand the need for response.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e527	I'll record two relationships. One is the way the Progress Party drives and sets up population groups against each other. In the debate here today, it is a matter of asking why it is that the rights of all together should be strengthened. Why is it that a policy should be pursued that supports the indigenous peoples, as we have a decision on bigotry, a constitutional decision, that is an indigenous people in Norway? Why should we back up that tradition, after the historical omissions and missteps that have been done to the Sami people? Then they say, "What about the women?" So I have not heard this from the Progress Party at all, and I am looking forward to the Progress Party promoting proposals here in the UK to strengthen the position of women. Now I see both party representatives shaking their heads, so I guess we can't expect any of those proposals. But there is therefore a consensus among the great majority of the United Kingdom about recognising the Sami people as an indigenous people in Norway, with all the rights that exist, and with the policy we have pursued to make sure that the Sami people in Norway have been strengthened in the last 30 years. To the question of funding the Anders Langes Party: I notice one thing, and it is that one is not trying to meet the claim that there was strong support in the Anders Langes Party for the apartheid regime of South Africa. So the historical heritage, I guess, is that you're stuck with it. Anders Lange, in his time, in connection with Idi Amin and everything that happened in his country, said that blacks need whites to rule. The funding of the Progress Party from the apartheid regime is rewritten in a book by Eschel Rhoodie called ‘The Real Information Scandal’, where he says: «We funded Lange's party so they could launch a weekly newspaper. Then we gave them more money so that he was able to run a useful campaign in the same year." He also writes, allegedly: «To our great amazement – which we shared with the rest of Norway – we ended up with a political party with four members of the National Assembly. Owen Horwood joked that if they had given me enough money, we would have ended up with a majority party and run Norway." [[...]] May we never get into the situation that the Progress Party gets a majority and rules Norway!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e552	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for many good contributions to this debate. It's also been very elucidating. I hope that it has also been clarifying for the representative Ørsal Johansen, who did not know what the Sami people's group is actually about, and what characterises it. Like many others, I hope that he has also learned something through this debate. So to the representative Fredriksen, who has been involved in conflicts between reindeer and other industries: there's nothing new in this country that we have conflicts between business interests, especially related to land issues. I myself have experience in running a plan selection in a municipality. To put it that way: it wasn't the big political divides and discussions that marked that day-to-day. There were discussions about economic interests in relation to how society should dispose of its land resources. But precisely by having systems to deal with these conflicts and by having dialogue, as you have in Alta, you find good solutions. You don't do that by sharpening conflicts. I also record that the representative Fredriksen refers to a whole series of legal cases, in both Nordland, Troms and large parts of Finnmark, about rights issues. As far as I am aware, there are no such cases at this time. So I challenge Fredriksen's representative to document the claim and tell us what legal cases it's actually about, where there are issues of Sami rights. I also think it is alarming that the representative Fredriksen, as I understand him, is calling for international law not to go ahead of Norwegian law. There will be a point of view that I think the representative is alone to stand in this Chamber. Then it is that I perceive that this debate is about two things, and the Progress Party is wasting it together. On the one hand, it is about the means and measures we are going to take, precisely to do as the Constitution says – to preserve Sami culture, Sami language and Sami society. On the other hand, it is about human rights, democracy and the rule of law. I think it was alarming that the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights at the University of Oslo clarified this during the hearing. The explanation may be that the representative Gjermund Hagesetter has been on a study trip to Korea. The only other country we know that has withdrawn, or tried to withdraw from, human rights conventions, is actually North Korea, and at least it's not a system we want to compare with here in Norway. Then I thank the representative Amundsen for the history lecture on the expressive speed that Stortinget had when ratification of ILO Convention No. 169. It is good to know that the national Parliament too can be effective. It was not that there was a lack of investigation. The Joint Court Committee was set up in 1980, the first investigation in 1984. And so in 1988 we adopted the Basic Law § 110a. After this debate, the Progress Party stands alone and is relinquished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e567	I take the floor after having sat and listened to this debate and read the proposal. I believe that this proposal by the Progress Party deserves a clear political character from the Parliamentary Chair, and that is that this proposal is reactionary. It is said here that the Progress Party is in its full right – of course they are in their full right – to present in the National Assembly of Norway the proposals they need to find. But I want to say it this way: they shouldn't do it, and there are two fundamental reasons for it. One is that the arguments on which they are based are simply not correct. It is not the case that accession to the ILO Convention, the Sameting or the Finnland Act discriminates against other ethnic groups. It is a law, a combination and a convention that intends to do something that is very important in a democratic society, namely to safeguard minority rights and indigenous people's rights in Norwegian society. That is why I think that the Progress Party should once again have the chance to draw this proposal, so that – and that is the second reason – they can break the historical line that the Progress Party has had in Norwegian policy, namely to release minorities. There has been a tradition that has carried that lot on some points. I was hoping they'd stopped doing that, but they don't. In the past, it wasn't just Samer, but there were finnmarks, single mothers and northern foreigners in general as Carl I. Hagen talked about – for many years – and as he used as a platform for his political argument. I record that it is probably not possible to get the Progress Party to draw the proposal, but they should actually do it for the reasons I mention here. Then to Fredriksen's first post – I had not come into the hall then, but I heard clearly what he said. He ironized – easily, correctly – over my characteristics of the Sameting as a jewel. Why is that? Well, that's for the reason I've mentioned here now, but it's also because in good democratic societies we're going to have systems that, on the democratic basis, guarantee minority rights and indigenous rights. That the Progress Party will stand up to this is the reactionary, and that's the saddest thing about the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e578	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e581	That's absolutely right, President. So far I still have my clothes on, so that's what I'm saying. There is no doubt that personally I liked SV much better in relation to the Sametinget and Sami questions when Ballo was a representative. He was from Finnmark and had the courage to represent his own population, unlike what we see in this debate, where the only SV is concerned, is to trace the debate. No one wants to go back to research time. No one wants to re-implement the policy pursued by the Labour Party for many decades. We should not forget that when discussing common policies. But the problem today is that a lot of people feel that they have lost their legal security in society – you feel that there are people who have been given far more, while others have been given fewer rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e590	The representative Kolberg calls the proposal we are promoting today, ‘reactive’, and he asks us to draw it. It is a pity, in fact, that we cannot make proposals again, because I should have liked to have done so – I would have liked to have encouraged them once more. These proposals are necessary. They're needed for a lot of reasons. When the representative of Kolberg characterises this as ‘reactive’, he should perhaps reason on the word ‘reactive’ and what it means in that case. So there's a reaction to something, there's a reaction to a policy that's gone too far – if you want to call it'reactive'. Because people have been granted special rights on the basis of de facto DNA. Then you can discuss whether it's racial or not – it's semantics – but you make a difference on people based on ethnicity. That's what this is all about. This is about zeroing discrimination that is unacceptable – and should be unacceptable – in a liberal democracy. We are not drawing this proposal. On the contrary, we are going to stand at the barricades and fight for the non-discrimination of all the Nordics within Norway's borders also in the continuation. But then you have to decide how to argue. Workers’ party representatives who have been up on this platform today – I am now ignoring SV, because they are busy with derailment all the time and South Africa – have used diametrically different arguments. Some, like the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen, are up here saying that yes, there is discrimination, but there is positive discrimination, as opposed to negative discrimination, which is probably among those who are not being treated positively, if you think of some degree of logic. That's one argument. And then it's the argument of the representative of Kolberg, who denies that there are privileges, even if there's a proven error. The Finnish law distinguishes people on the basis of ethnicity. Eligibility for the Sameting is about ethnicity. The right to reintroduction is about ethnicity. You have special rules to enter the University of Tromsø, depending on whether you are the same or not. It's a lot of special rights that you've designed, probably in a good sense, but the fact is that you're treating people differently on the basis of ethnicity, and it creates conflicts. That's what we're experiencing in North Norway, that's the problem we're discussing today, and you're going to find out that there's a lot of hard words in this debate. This is a timely debate, and it should soon also bring with it the majority of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e604	I registered that representatives from Finnmark were requested, so here I am. This is a recurring debate, and I often meet the Progress Party in this kind of discussion. It's basically an important debate, because it's right that it's debated both loudly and often hotly and hardly in the county. The biggest problem with the technique of the Progress Party is that they're picking up a lot of arguments, picking them up in a bowl, stirring around, and then they're picking up fragments of the argumentation that are going to serve what they're going to say right then. There are two things that should be clarified early with the Progress Party, and then it usually uses to clean it up a little bit. Lifting a minority by discrimination is something we often do, and in many cases that is right. Compared to Sami, it's true, a minority has to have a little extra muscle – it's going fine. Then it's the eternal blending of an area debate, a nutrition debate and an eternal ramification of laws where you don't always bring everyone along. If you're going to do something about being a reindeer, you have to do something about the reindeer management law – it's no use doing anything about the Finnland Act or the other laws. You have to bring the whole round. I don't think we should reject these proposals. I think it is important that this type of debate is also in Parliament, in order to show some of the things that are going on outside. So I do not support Kolberg in that the proposal should have been drawn, in fact I think the Progress Party should take the same round at least once a year. We can handle that gallantly. It is that in regulations and laws we give extra light to the faint, and we give extra sound to the heavy hearing. Sometimes you wonder if there might have been tools that should have been distributed to more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e613	I'm going to repeat for the third time, I think, my support for the idea of drawing this proposal, because I think it fundamentally violates the idea of human rights, it fundamentally violates the idea that all people are equally worth. The Progress Party is unable, and they have demonstrated that in this debate too, to distinguish equality from equivalency. This is about making all people equally worthy and giving all equal opportunities in society, so that we can all have good lives, regardless of religion, ethnicity, sex, functional level, etc. But I actually took the floor just to see that the representative Fredriksen did not take the opportunity, as I challenged him to show what cases actually exist about these rights, as he claimed from the pulpit of the Great Britain, despite the fact that he signed after I had the floor. He has not responded to this challenge. Of that, I can only conclude that the representative Fredriksen also agrees that such legal proceedings are not actually taking place at the moment. So another thing in relation to what the Progress Party has proposed. They have proposed to terminate an ILO convention which they say, on the one hand, gives great privileges and is difficult for Norwegian society. On the other hand, they point out in their comments that the majority believe that this does not confer such special rights, and they therefore choose to propose to terminate it, since it does not matter anyway. So when the representative Amundsen claims that the Workers' Party is inconsistent in his argument, one may first have to sweep for one's own door. But the Constitution establishes, and there is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy that supports that provision, that the Sami people too have the right to develop their language, their culture and their society. The management area of Sami languages, the Sameting, Finnmark property and the Finnmark Commission are all important instruments and tools we use to enforce the overall human rights of the Sami people as well. The Progress Party says in its proposal that they are concerned with the Sami people and the Sami culture and language. But they don't suggest any means of meeting this. All they do is take away the tools that we have, which are instruments that are absolutely necessary, that are critical to being able to take care of the Sami language, so that the research policy does not work out to the full, so that we eradicate the Sami culture, which is a threatened culture. In this context, several representatives have pointed in particular to the Sami languages — the southern Sami and the Lulesamian languages are on the verge of extinction. There is an urgent need to pursue common policies; there is an urgent need to find even more — and good — instruments to support the Sami cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e626	There are a number of people here who have called for knowledge about more issues related to the same policy issues, and I would recommend that more people go back and look at the Lappe Codeisille, which is the basis for the debate we have here today, when the Sami regions are integrated into the Nordic countries. At that time it was also concerned that the Sami population should be allowed to continue their way of life and their ability to function in the national state in which they were then integrated. Then there is reason to remember that together is a minority, and that it is necessary and important that the majority ensure that the Sami people receive real equal treatment. We need to do that with positive action, or positive discrimination, if one wants to. When I hear here that many people use the word ‘special rights’ as a negatively charged word, it is as if someone has been given some exclusive privileges. That's not why we're launching these measures. That's to be able to achieve real equality. The United Nations bodies also say that positive discrimination is non-discriminatory. We have our own conventions, among other things. for women and children, we have it against racial discrimination, we have it for national minorities, and we have it for indigenous people. Then there have also been opinions that there are a lot of conflicts in the area, but it is as the representative Erik Sivertsen says: we have not registered that there are legal proceedings now. The Finnland Commission was just set up to remedy the situation there and to identify in a good way existing rights acquired under Norwegian law. It's not the first time we've used this type of tool. From 1908 to 1953, the Højfjell Commission in Norway worked with the same questions. The Nordic and Troms Foreign Affairs Commission worked for the period 1985–2004. It had the task of settling the legal situation between the state and others in the high-mountain areas. So this is a well-known tool, and I look forward to and hope we get a good process after the Finnmark Commission makes its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e639	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e642	The allegations have come close as hail in this debate, undocumented such. I'll do some examples. The representative Sivertsen claims that human rights are being violated if you withdraw from ILO Convention No. 169. In that case, it's quite amazing. That means accusing Sweden, Finland and Russia of breaking human rights on that basis. Then I notice that you, especially SV, use the Basic Law § 110a and say that it defines the same people as indigenous people and that they have special rights. It is with respect to report wrong. The Basic Law § 110a is also the subject of the Advance Party. It is about providing Sami language, Sami identity and Sami culture. It is also the wish of the Progress Party. But you have to do it in a way that doesn't specifically treat and have negative consequences for other people. So that's how we live well together in North Norway. And we'll do that in the future. But then we don't have to be concerned about separating the DNA from people living in the north. [[The President clubs.]] We've lived there for a long time, and we're going to stay together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e654	The President will remember the time of speech. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1894]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e672	I just want to explain the next four issues that we've been dealing with in the committee. Here we have the annual revision of the budgets, where the government has accounted for more consumption and less consumption of money on the state budget. It is a unanimous committee that has agreed to this. That doesn't mean that there are no leads from the different parties, that they may have had in the past, in their alternative budgets, as we dealt with them last year, that the money should have been spent in a different way, but I see it as, I'm not going to say a purely technical, but a technical adjustment of the budgets at the end of the year. That's why we don't have the tradition of having a wide-ranging debate on it either. I'm just explaining this to show the reason why we don't have a wide-ranging debate in the Grand Duchy about these audits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e684	I just want to join the case spokesperson and do not intend to spend a long time on this. All four cases relate to changes in the 2011 government budget. It's a consensual committee, but of course that doesn't mean one is the same. The Progress Party had alternative proposals both for the state budget that we have been discussing now, for 2012, and for what we were discussing a year ago. I just want to stress that what is now at the root of government finances is completely different from what was just one year ago. When one dealt with the State budget for 2011, there was a surplus of 266.1 billion. kr, while it has now increased to 372.5 billion. kr, i.e. an increase of 106.4 billion. kr. So one gets a development where the municipalities are struggling, while the state is getting richer and richer. I am not looking up in E24 today that the LO manager goes out and says, ‘Buy an extra Christmas present.’ It goes on to say: ‘A little extra gesture might help keep the wheels running in some manufacturing establishments.’ With such a starting point, it might not have been so dangerous if the Progress Party had received multiples for its proposal for more money for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e702	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1895]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e718	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1895]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e734	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e750	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1897]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e766	This matter concerns proposals for changes to the appropriations under some chapters of the Programme areas 10 and 30 of the State budget for 2011. Activity figures for input-driven funding in regional health enterprises indicate a growth of about 1.8 pst. for the whole of 2011. So this is going to increase by 90 million. kr, and the allocation to outpatient activities is also increased by 68 million. kr. The proposition refers to the fact that updated estimates of health enterprises’ pension contributions for 2011 increase by well 1.3 billion. kr. At the same time, it is estimated that health enterprises’ contribution funds have increased by about 1 billion. kr in 2011. The Committee agrees that health businesses can use the year’s contribution to contribution funds for the payment of increased pension contributions, which enables Health West, Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord to manage the increased pension contributions. As parts of the insured persons in Health South-East are registered with the State pension fund, which is not funded, the proposal is supported that Health South-East be increased by 211 million. kr for 2011. The Committee agrees that it is necessary to restructure and upgrade existing health radio networks in order for healthcare to have a functioning radio link until the new emergency network can cover it on a national basis, and that action must be taken by the end of May 2012. Our setting therefore supports the granting of an order authorisation of 20 million. kr. There is an overall committee which joins the proposals in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e779	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1898]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e795	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e804	This proposal addresses three issues that are all necessary for a good and modern specialist healthcare service: management, ICT and quality assurance of patient care. For Oslo University Hospital, good results in these areas will be necessary for successful conversion. The Committee's position is divided, and I will present views and assessments from the government parties. The Government Parties to the Committee welcome the fact that, on repeated occasions, the Storting has been informed of the progress of the transition through budgetary documents and specific statements, etc. The first theme of this proposal for a representative is that a new and comprehensive risk analysis of the migration process should be carried out. The proposal uses a very general wording and may give the impression that risk analysis has not been carried out. That's not right. We stress that strategic work and day-to-day operation within adopted political leadership is a responsibility for the governance and management of health businesses, while at the same time having an active and outreach role to ensure that the activities follow the governance signals and operate properly. We believe that the State Council's letter to the Committee shows an active follow-up of Health South-East in the matter. The administration and management of the hospital are responsible for a continuous, and, as far as possible, verification of the conversion process. Risk analyses have been carried out prior to the process. Risk mitigation measures are in place and risks are continuously analysed through the process. But in such a large process, it is not possible to predict all obstacles. It is therefore necessary to adapt both pace and instruments along the way, where necessary. It is wise management, it increases the natural authority of management, and it ensures the continuous anchoring of the project by employees. We believe that the draft representative on this point is more defensive than what really happens in the field. Furthermore, the Committee's comments by the proposers have not helped to clarify the content and make it visible whether it contains something new that could improve what is already being done. The second theme of the proposal is to strengthen local management. Government parties will state that good organisation and management are absolutely necessary in order to provide the best health services for the population. We believe that some general principles promote this, including: leadership shall respect and see its staff in everyday life, and employees shall know who the nearest manager is. Therefore, good management implies that there must be relevant contact surfaces between the manager and the employee. This will most often happen when the manager and employee are in the same place. Therefore, the Hospital Inland has learned that it was wise to return to local management at its hospital units, and the management at Vestre Viken also returns to local management for the four hospital units in the company. At the same time, it will sometimes be that special circumstances will speak for the geographical distance of management relations. The third theme of the proposal is a proposal for a State additional funding for ICT of 10 billion. DKK over five years for all regional health businesses – and, I want to pay attention to, 10 billion. kr allegedly at no cost to anyone. Here the proposers have tried economic magic. The last few weeks indicate that everyone, or some of the proposers, regrets this, but has not had the courage to acknowledge it. 10 B.C.E. NOK is very much money. It is an honest political priority to propose this, either at the expense of other areas or at the expense of budgetary balance and low interest rates, but when we dealt with the health budget in this room 14 days ago, a total budget of 139 million. NOK, the proposers had omitted these 10 billion. kr in its amendments. That either means that the proposers forgot 10 billion. kr – which is very worrying in itself – or that the proposal is just an empty blow in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e819	I had so sincerely hoped that Stortinget had not had to deal with this matter today. Had we had a government that took the situation at Oslo University Hospital more seriously, today's case would actually not have been necessary. As I experience it, unfortunately, both must and should this hall intervene by examining and adopting the matter today, when the government does not or does not want to. Often it is that paralysis can affect those who are so convinced that they are right, so much so that no witness from reality seems to make an impression. It can't be that everyone who comes with a worry message is wrong or has an agenda of their own, something you can get the impression of when you hear the health council and her bureaucracy reply. The reality is similar to that of everyone wearing shoes, such as patient organisations, employee organisations, health care and county doctors. On this occasion, I would like to refer to the broad support for both the description of reality and the concrete proposals in this matter which emerged from the hearing. For that reason, I would also like to point out what the Medical Association said: «The understanding of the risks associated with the current situation is very different between patients and patient organisations, employees, on the one hand, and health care businesses, regional health enterprises and the ministry on the other». More precisely, it cannot be said. The representative proposal has therefore been supported by the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Norwegian Association of Doctors, the Joint Organisation of disabled people and the Norwegian Association of midwives. It illustrates the concern experienced by both professionals and patients. There must be a common understanding of the challenges and opportunities of conversion processes, and I hope that in the future the Council of State will be more responsive to those who are closest to the process than we have so far recorded. The assumption must and must be that the transitions will lead to better services for patients and not least ensure a good working environment for employees. There is a background to the desire to undertake a thorough risk assessment of the whole process and not just individual elements of it. The Health Minister has said throughout the year that she is following the situation carefully, and that she has confidence in the board of health companies. But despite the fact that she has followed the situation carefully, she has not done any thing when the warnings have come. Not even when the county doctor announced that life could be lost on the basis of the pace of the conversion process, there was some reaction to trace. The Minister of Health appears to be the paralysed of action. Most people see that something needs to be done, but the government obviously does not have the ability to take action. It looks almost as if the Minister of Health thinks that only one closes your eyes long enough, the problems will eventually be gone. But this doesn't go away by itself. It is with great pleasure that I record that we have received support for the proposal for an ICT bet by the professional organisations. This was also demonstrated through the consultation round. It is also with great pleasure that I record that the Council of State in the form of letters expresses agreement on the need for good ICT solutions in the sector. The situation in Health-Norway in 2011 is that test responses, X-rays and references are still being sent by mail or taxi. It can take as much as a week before it is there, and unfortunately then also a long time inside the hospital. It is also a fact that while Norwegian hospitals use 2.5 pst. of the ICT budget, is the average in so-called paperless hospitals of 4-6 pst. Unfortunately, international rankings show that while neighbouring countries such as Sweden, Denmark and not least Germany are on very high average, we are at the other end of the scale — and that in a country with both resource and technological prerequisites to invest. The lack of coordinated efforts in Norway illustrates the need for a national ICT promise. But to that it requires will and action and not just good will. Today, you have the opportunity to show leadership, to take the situation of the OUS seriously, and not least to make clear that the capital process requires a modern, open and interconnected ICT effort. Today you can be sure that we will have a complete impact assessment, a necessary break and not least a commitment to ICT. With these words I will also be allowed to address the proposals that have been referred to in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e858	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e861	First, I would like to highlight what the rapporteur said about the Stortinget being informed about this process on several occasions. Yes, on three occasions Stortinget has been informed about this matter. On all three occasions, it is the Storting itself that has had to take the initiative — through two interviews and one common demand from the opposition that the Minister of Health should come and explain the situation. The only time the Minister of Health and the government itself has informed about this process in advance was in the 2011 state budget, where there was a very, very limited mention of what has to be called the largest migration in the Norwegian health system that ever directly affects employees and patients. The proposals promoted by the opposition aim to contribute to the success of the establishment of Oslo University Hospitals as one of the leading hospitals in Northern Europe in terms of the preservation and further development of a unique medical professional environment in Norway. Unfortunately, these proposals and contributions from the opposition are also rejected by the government. What we concretely propose is to put in place a new and comprehensive risk analysis of the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital. It is true that risk analyses have been carried out, but first of all: risk analyses are carried out on individual parts of the process and not on the whole and the complexity of having both a merger and a fission at the same time. I am pleased to hear that the risk assessments carried out have had an effective impact on the timing and progress of the processes that are taking place, which in the case of these assessments undermines the confidence of the assessments that have been made. The second is that the opposition is also clear that if risk analysis contributes to a need to stop, think about it again, get a new start, then we want the government to come back to Stortinget if it requires financial contributions. It is not that the Stortinget comes to the Minister of Health and says that this process of conversion will cost one or the other; it is actually the Minister of Health's duty to come to Stortinget with that kind of calculations. The opposition then suggests that one from the government must be clear that there must be a strengthened local leadership in such a demanding process of conversion as the Oslo University Hospital is now in. It is quite obvious, because the kind of conversion involves a high risk – not least what we heard at the NRK this morning, what many in the hospital call a "fear culture", which I can also confirm through all the anonymous e-mails that employees at the Oslo University Hospital send to the undersigned because they do not dare to send e-mails with their own name. The reason for this is, of course, a combination of a demanding shift in which the number of jobs is also to be reduced, and therefore many fear for their own work and are therefore afraid to give a message, and it is fatal in a transition situation that could compromise patient safety. The final point of the proposal is to address one of the fundamental problems of making this hospital a common hospital: a lack of common ICT infrastructure. This includes, inter alia: for cancer patients to have a delay of eight months, and for patients to be sent by taxi with their prison records. Our contribution there is to propose the same thing as the Stoltenberg I government did to the municipalities when it was necessary to invest more in school buildings in the municipalities, namely to establish an interest-rate compensation scheme. The advantage of doing so in the case of ICT is that one then gives five years of freedom of payment, which means that hospitals do not have to pay down this investment until an actual operating advantage of the investment is obtained. This is a very good proposal, which the government parties obviously have not even cared about getting involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e876	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work. The comments made by the majority should have been unanimous comments by the Committee. They capture all the important political leaders of the conversion process that is now taking place at the Oslo Hospitals. It's a demanding process, which especially the employees feel. I have previously stressed from this pulpit, on behalf of SV, that we have – like all other parties in this room – placed ourselves behind the coordination of hospital functions in the capital. We do that because, once implemented, it will provide the best use of hospital resources in the capital, for the benefit of the citizens of Oslo Municipality and the rest of the country. Hospitals in Oslo have important national functions. The switchover must be carried out in such a way that it does not affect patient treatment and that it is well-managed. The Minister of Health has the necessary powers to carry out the process at the appropriate pace in order to ensure optimal care of patients. This will take into account the input from the Health Authority and the risk assessments that come on the table at all times. I do not believe that the opposition is proposing anything other than this. Earlier this year, a press conference was held in which the parliamentary leaders of the four opposition parties proposed a ‘time-out’, i.e. to stop the whole process of conversion in order to carry out a new risk assessment. In addition, an ICT fund of 10 billion was proposed. kr for the whole country – this applies to the whole country and not just to the Oslo hospitals. In retrospect, the proposal for ‘time-out’ has been scolded by several representatives of the opposition parties. It wasn't time-out that was meant, but just to slow down. In the budgetary procedure, which was the possibility for the opposition to propose more money to the Oslo process and to finance it differently from what is now being done, there was no proposal for more money on the table, no alternative proposals were made. From the right, which is one of the proposers here, on the contrary, proposals were made for savings on somatic matters, i.e. on ordinary hospital operations. Efficiencies of 300 million are proposed. NOK 300 million and earmarking of money to go to Somatik. kr – i.e. restrictions on hospital operating budgets that would also have hit the Oslo hospitals. In addition, they propose more use of private services, amounting to 300 million. I'll give you that as well. So that's the opposite that's put on the table here, of that per today's largest opposition party. As I have said before, there is a very demanding process at the Oslo Hospitals, and there are great demands on management and employees. The reorganisation shall be carried out at the same time as patient treatment is to be carried out in full. I assume – and I trust – that the Minister of Health will take care of this properly. I assume that the Stortinget will follow the conversion process carefully in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e895	In recent years, the health sector in the eastern region has been marked by enormous unrest and unforeseeableness. In particular, the merger of Oslo University Hospital has been one of the main contributors to the problems that have affected Health South-East. The systems have failed, and the expenses have also been cut off. The aim of the merger with one healthcare company was to improve patient safety, strengthen the professional environment and cut costs. Now, a few years later, we see patients, trustees and supervisors who are concerned about patient safety. We see professional environments in disintegration, and we see budget cracks in the billions class. One of the key prerequisites for a successful merger is that all play by team – employees, trustees, management and owners. Already at the beginning of the conversion at Oslo University Hospital, supervisory authorities and trust-chosen sceptics were involved. Now scepticism has turned almost to resistance. This weekend we saw a long report on Saturday's revision about the state of the health company. We saw patients who did not receive the necessary treatment because of system failure, and we then despaired of doctors, trust leaders, and employees who were now afraid of their patients. In a study conducted by the NRK, presented in the same report, nine out of ten doctors could tell that they thought the merger would go out on the patients. This also corresponds to the figures in Oslo University Hospital's own employee survey, which was carried out now in the autumn. It shows that a total of seven out of ten employees do not believe that Oslo University Hospital is capable of achieving the ambitions underlying the merger. I think a lot of the solution to the crisis of confidence that has arisen is to calm down the process, make the systems work, get proper staffing and get good governance of the economy throughout the transition process. On the part of the opposition parties, we believe that the good proposal in three points we have can contribute to this. Last month we could read in Today's Medicine that only 18 out of 59 somatic wards have a management that is present in the environment daily. 41 departments have cross-cutting management, i.e. the manager is responsible for persons and activities located in several locations. Employees are concerned about the lack of managers physically present, and they also believe that this is detrimental to day-to-day operations. Computer system failures have caused patients in a number of cities in South and Eastern Europe not to be treated in time or to be away in the system. Many were also not called in to check at the right time, nor have they received important information. The level of investment in ICT in the Norwegian healthcare system has been lower than the level of investment in our comparable countries. ICT is the very nervous system of the health care system. If these systems fail, there will be serious consequences for patients, as we have also seen. That is why I would like to repeat something I have said before – namely that there is a need for a massive investment in ICT across Health Norway, which is also in our proposal. Good computer systems help good doctors to provide good treatment. This contributes to increased safety and safety. I had really hoped and wished that the government parties and the government councils could have listened to the Stortinget and agreed to our good proposal, which we now also know will be supported outside this house by employee and trust authority organisations. With regard to ICT bets, I would like to refer the members of the Health and Welfare Committee to perhaps read a little in the financial position where these funds have been presented. Finally, I would like to mention that yesterday evening this matter took a new and very serious turn. In response to a number of questions raised by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on Migration at Oslo University Hospital, the Council of State informed that the Health Authority has now established a supervisory case in which they examine whether the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital could have contributed to a death. Let's hope that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e916	In the introduction I would like to make it clear that I think it is good that we get a general change of words about the process around Oslo University Hospital. Although we have now had three things on the rap in Stortinget, I also found it good and positive that this important matter is being debated and informed in Stortinget. The process involves many people, many professionals – 17 000 years of work – and a budget of 17 billion. kr, and patients throughout Norway will lose if this process does not land in a good way. Today's debate shows that there is a great and broad political support in the Stortingen for the merger with Oslo University Hospital. There is no one today that requires a direct pause in the conversion process, which was before an impression. All the parties are behind the merger decision, and the opposition is not coming with any fresh funds for the process. Whereas the proposers have three main objections where they have proposals for measures which may improve the merger process; The first point is on a new risk and implementation plan, the second on ICT bet and the third on urban rental. However, these are proposals which, today, represent nothing new, but which are important measures that are mentioned before and that should and must be followed up in the further process. When it comes to a new and holistic risk implementation plan for the process, I think the Council of State in its letter has done very well for how this is handled. The case-leading officer also referred to what is stated in the comitology note that strategic work and day-to-day operation within adopted political leadership is a responsibility for the management and management of regional health care agencies and health services, and that the Council of State should have an active and outreach role to ensure that the hospital operates in a defensive manner. When it comes to ICT bets, there is no disagreement that there is a need for increased bets. The only thing that's discrepancy is the way this is going to happen. The problem is that the opposition proposes a State funding scheme for ICT betting of 10 billion. kr over five years, without this being visible in their own budget. When it comes to renting, I've already said that this is an important point to sort out. The representative Davøy referred to Dagens Medisin, who has had a summary where it was revealed that 18 out of 59 somatic units have a quiet lease. That means that seven out of ten departments have a lease that is wholly or partly non-existent. I think it was a mistake what happened when one took away what was a quiet lease, when a merger started in Oslo. Trust elected superior Grimsgaard says in Dagens Medisin that there are additions that have never met their own leader, adding those who feel forward-looking at their own workplace. He points out that renting in a medical practice requires that the lease is in place in the day-to-day period, and warns against a lack of leadership leading to a weak patient treatment and a risk of treatment failure. I am pleased with the signals that today come from a mass mass of people saying that renting is important to get in place – not least in a process of conversion. In the end, I want to link some words to what the representative Bent Höie mentioned about a fear culture that was mentioned at the NRK today. I think this is a bigger problem than just Oslo University Hospital. I thought we should be honest with ourselves and say that this should concern us. I have also received feedback that has suggested the same thing. I think we should be clear that freedom of expression for the public is a very important principle that we should protect, and we should work actively for a culture of openness in the hospital sector and in other public sectors. I notice that the new director, Erikstein, says that it is permissible to say so, and that one should say so. I want us from Stortinget's side to address what has arisen from concerns, so that we are clear that it should be allowed to give notice without any risk of sanctions or promotion, or anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e936	Oslo University Hospital is an important hospital for everyone in Norway and provides large resources, with 17 000 annual works and a budget of 17 billion. kr. These must be used as best as possible for patients. There has been broad agreement on the main elements of the transitions, but it is obvious that this kind of conversion is demanding for the employees, and we must pay tribute to their efforts. We have to dry down to make changes in order to improve the supply of patients. We need to use buildings, professional skills and equipment in a more rational way than today. The proposers propose that a new and comprehensive risk analysis of the transitions should be carried out. I agree that risk analysis is important for patients, and in several business meetings with Health South-East the government has called for such systems. The ongoing risk assessments already in place shall cover the whole of the activity and are therefore coherent. It is not necessary to stop the transition in order to make risk assessments and adjustments. However, stopping the changeover now will help increase the risk and create uncertainty rather than reduce the risk. No matter how long a break you have to take, you can't take into account all the possible problems that may arise from a change. Therefore, the risk assessments need to be carried out on an ongoing basis. From 2010, Oslo University Hospital has been organised with continuous clinics, and many professional environments are still located in two or more locations. Therefore, many employees do not have local management. This was not the case before, as the four hospitals were located in more than 70 places. Good management is a prerequisite for ensuring good services for patients and for ensuring a good working environment. This is particularly important when a demanding conversion and full operation is to be carried out in parallel, as is the case with Oslo University Hospital today. Management needs to get close to the professional environments in order to understand their reality and goals. The professional environment on its part must have an understanding of the whole and the framework conditions that apply. I believe that the management issue must be addressed by the new board, the new management and the employees of the Oslo University Hospital. I trust that they will find good solutions. One of the measures is to establish local coordinating positions to address some of the needs of local management. I think it is unfortunate that Oslo University Hospital failed with the project clinical work, but I trust that the new management is working too fully to improve the data solutions. It is positive that the opposition places emphasis on ICT in the health sector, but it is unclear to me why the proposal for ICT bet was not promoted by the state budget proposers, in line with the budget principles of the Storting. Investment loans to state-owned regional health enterprises are carried over the line of the State budget, as this is a cost that is incurred. I agree that good technological solutions are needed in all companies. This is important primarily in order to ensure quality and patient safety in treatment, but also in order to ensure good working and resource use. It is therefore positive that the Stortinget has just granted 106 billion. for 2012 to the hospitals. In addition, in 2012, I want to make my own big message about ICT, so we can have a broad discussion of the subject. This was notified in the context of the treatment of the national health and care plan. Creating a good health service is not only about money, but also about good governance. Adequate funding has not been proposed for representatives' bets, nor can I see that adopting a general break in the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital will contribute positively to quality and patient safety. However, management must always adapt the progress of the various parts of the migration process in order to ensure patients’ safety in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e966	Throughout this year, there has still been evidence from the environment around Oslo University Hospital about quite serious conditions. These are messages we get via radio, television and newspapers. It's messages that come from patient organisations. There are messages coming from employees' organisations, from health care and also from the county doctor in Oslo. It is also the case – and this is probably the case for the Council of State – that many messages come anonymously from those who work up there and who do not dare to say so in the usual way, for fear of losing their jobs, are placed on a siding or whatever it may be. My question to the Council of State is, with all these testimonies, is it so that none of them at all impress upon the Council of State, or is it such that none of them contain any degree of truth?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e973	It's clear that testimony makes an impression. Of course, it also makes an impression on me. I both listen to and read news and have, of course, also had meetings with employees, who are in a very demanding conversion process. I am glad that the Health Authority is following the transition processes so closely. That happened when we moved 160,000 patients from Oslo University Hospital to Akershu University Hospital. Then they followed that process closely. That's good, and it's important for patient safety. In fact, warning in hospitals is very important. In principle, Oslo University Hospital has worked a lot to get a report culture that addresses all events that have occurred or that can happen. It is very important in a hospital that what is worrying is reported because their main task is to care for the patient. Then it is important that the employees are well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e982	In the Stortinget on 10 June 2011, the Council of State said: ‘In order to succeed in the transition, it is important that both the owner and the management, and the employees, are familiar with, and agree on, objectives and framework conditions, and that we stick to this even if we encounter obstacles along the way. It is important to ensure dialogue and build trust within the organisation. [[...]] But this is not enough. We also need to build confidence in the environment, especially against the population.' Oslo University Hospital's own study shows that about 80 pst. do not believe in this conversion. NRK’s recent survey of 7 000 employees shows that 75 pst. doctors are concerned that this would compromise patient safety. All the employees who give notice meet with one view from this government, and that is that it is the employees who oppose the conversion. When one sees that so many of the employees are in doubt about this, is it not so important for the Council of State to have the confidence that was important on 10 June 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e998	Trust is important – always. It is demanding both to maintain trust and to build trust. I want to say in terms of these investigations, that it is of course important to read them carefully. It is also important to receive the messages that come when I have had meetings with trustees or with management. I also have to say that there is a slightly different perception among different people, including professionals. All of this tells me that it is a very demanding process that is now in progress. Now we have a new management in place that has been on the job for well one week. In fact, I believe that both the management and the new board, which was elected a very short time ago, must have an opportunity to work with the trusted and the employees, in order to get good processes both within the transition process and beyond the population,
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1007	It is a large and demanding process that is going on at Oslo University Hospital. We are all well aware of that. At the same time, there is a good deal of concern about what is happening in these days, with some cuts in drug and psychiatry offers as well as for children and young people. When it comes to mental health in particular, I have recently sent a written question to the Council of State to which she is going to answer, so I am not going to take it today. We read in the evening post just a few days ago that there is a quiet closure of the children's hospital at Ullevål. My question is: has it been planned, in connection with the merger process at Oslo University Hospital, that the children's hospital and the children's wards at Oslo University Hospital should simply be closed, and that the children should then be in adult wards? Is it part of the process that it should be like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1014	There are many processes going on, but of course children still have to be treated at Oslo University Hospital. Many of the functions are collected in the Rikshospitalet. I would rather come back in reply if it is this representative, Davøy, who has asked me questions about. I have received many questions from Stortinget just before Christmas, and I will try to answer everyone before Christmas. As far as drugs and psychiatry are concerned, it is clear that there are also areas that we have been particularly concerned about that need to be properly cared for. That is why new offers are being built up. There have been new offers on Aker. A large part of the patients who have belonged to Oslo University Hospital as a local hospital have been transferred to Aarhus, and some of the business has moved there. In addition, we have been through a budgetary process, but the offer to patients is to be maintained in total. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1021	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1024	Oslo University Hospital has some of our best scientific and scientific environments. They have a lot of resources with their 17-billion-dollar budget. NOK and 17 000 employees. They provide good services for patients from all over the country. The background for the conversion was justified in several respects, but what is worth noting is that there was a broad consensus on the conversion initially. None of the assumptions underlying the conversion has changed since the start. On the contrary, daily evidence shows that there is an urgent need to obtain results from the conversions. Parts of the conversion have gone too slowly. Here I can mention crew plans, ICT platform, the lack of concreteisation of investment projects as examples. In this demanding image, the opposition shouts weekly in the media about time-out. We have to press the pause button, they say at the latest today, while in debates here in this room they are much more anxious about what they really want. I wonder why the opposition is so clear in the media that you have to stop the transition while in this room, for example. on 28 November, said that you would not press the break button. Is it because they rationally realize that a break will be harmful to patients, that the assumptions for the transition have not changed, but that they will not face the challenges, everyone who has to come, in such a great transformation? I don't know. What I know is that it's like, for example, The right really suggested, is that the OYS would have to have converted even more if they had made a pass on to their alternative state budget. They had had to streamline and privatise many employees, so that even more had been affected by the current conversion. In the budget, they have earmarked this nationally to be below 600 million. kr., and what they propose to sue that pill, is a national ICT investment of 35 million. kr. So they're going to make almost 600 million more efficient and privatize. NOK 35 million. kr back in a national ICT bet. They're going to do this over five years, and then they're going to have 175 million. kr for this as they enter over the line in the State budget. Well, in the reality you have out there, it's estimated that health companies will spend between 3.5 and 4 billion a year. SEK for operation and investment in ICT – up to 20 billion. kr in the next five years. That means 175 million. kr extra relatively small – yes, almost nothing. But this is the way it goes when it comes to tax relief first in the budget, then some other important issues first in the right. I guess there wasn't much left for the specialist health service in the Right's alternative budget. On the contrary, it is necessary to streamline, privatise and collect profits at a minimum of 600 million. kr next year. I wonder what employees at Oslo University Hospital and elsewhere think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1039	It is clear that the representative Breen thinks they have a bad case since he derails and talks about something quite different than the matter is really about. The right has given a decisive emphasis to the fact that the conversion of Oslo University Hospitals will lead to better services for patients and a good working environment for employees. Therefore, we have been critical of how the transitions have been implemented to date, to the point where the pace of transition is too high, and whether quality and patient safety considerations have been properly taken into account. There has been no lack of warnings either from patient organisations, the Medical Association, the Nursing Association and other organisations. They provide broad support for the proposals to undertake a new and consistent risk analysis of the entire migration process and to oblige Health South-East to strengthen local management and to establish a funding mechanism for the ICT effort in the health sector, but this clearly does not imply the government parties. It is now important to create a common understanding of both the challenges and opportunities of the migration processes. In particular, more transparency and democracy must be created in the workplace. It's a conversion that affects thousands of employees and patients. It is very demanding and must be implemented in a quality and sound manner. Oslo University Hospital has reported its own risk of increased waiting lists and patient rights violations, but it also chooses to ignore government parties and the Minister of Health. The switchover also affects Aarhus and has had consequences for patients and employees. Recent reports of some serious concerns have been received. doctors, nurses, county doctor and the caretaker. There is still a demanding manning situation. According to the Romanesque magazine, November 25th, Ahus has to cut down 340 million. D in the budget for the following year, and they must reduce in spite of the fact that there are too few professionals already in some areas. The Labour Inspectorate has repeatedly ordered the establishment of a balance between tasks and resources, and there have been repeated breaches of the Working Environment Act that have resulted in police reports by Aarhus. This is not a black paint. I believe to be realistic in my presentation and relate to the facts that have emerged. A new and comprehensive risk analysis of the migration process is necessary. The trust between management and staff now needs to be restored, and the work environment and patient safety need to be given the main focus. I have to say I was worried when I heard about NRK's investigation today, which is done among several hundred employees, about a fear culture at the hospital, and that employees do not dare report any defects or defects. It's very serious. They're in an impossible situation. They know that it has to be reduced, and they say from, it can have consequences for themselves. I agree with the representative, Höie, that this could be fatal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1056	You have to ask yourself the question sometimes: why are large conversion processes in the public so demanding, so difficult and filled with wheezing rhetoric? It's also an example of this. I think some of the answer, of course, is that with a certain change of pace it follows discomfort – I think we should agree that no matter who is in position and in opposition. However, there are major changes in the private sector, which go well and where employees are happy to go to work. I think it's inherent in our system, like the hospital sector that operates politically, that there's a tendency to suppress reports of errors because you fear the political discomfort of being criticized for their implementation. I allow myself to characterise the statement from the Council of State here today as a presentation with a desk view. It could be in the right perspective if you're in an office. But for those who are in an organisation, who meet quality requirements and who are going to meet patients with respect, the actual organisational perspective, the employee's perspective and the patient's perspective are the right one. If there is a difference in reality between the desktop perspective and the organisational perspective, one must at least be better than the government council to explain to Stortinget what this difference can be. Pure tactic from the employees' organisations, from the doctors or that people are reluctant, it can't be. It is also the case that you have to listen to the serious testimony that the board is replaced – the old one did not find the basis for working under the then framework conditions. The Executive Director has resigned. So these are people who follow the business on the nearest team and see it at eye level, while others see it from their office. That's when we have to ask: is there a reasonable match between the resources put at the disposal and the tasks to be solved? A major organisational change is needed, and in the middle of it all, efficiency gains are also to be taken into account. While everyone who's been close to mergers in the private business knows that first you have to make investments, you have to build a new one, you have to have it in place, and then you actually have to be willing to make hump investments initially, where you spend some more money in a conversion phase. And then you can pick up the rationalization gains, because otherwise it'll go beyond the quality of the product. If you do it in private business, you lose the customers, and of course you can't afford it. It is this de minimisity of the problems that leads us further away from both patient safety and a sound migration process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1069	In many parts of the 1990s, I was in the Health and Social Committee in Eastfold County, where we were. was responsible for the county's five somatic hospitals and one psychiatric hospital. There were major conversion processes that took place at the time, leading up to what we know today as the Hospital Eastfold. There were turbulent times, and many controversial decisions were taken. I remember something in particular the leader of the selection, Dag Johansen from the Workers' Party, said: We politicians can make many unpopular decisions and run a process, but in one case it is necessary to stop and think about it again, and that is when the professionals say that what is happening is professionally irresponsible. – Those were wise words from a strong working party politician who I have brought with me in my political work. Therefore, one of my questions to the Medical Association during the hearing on this matter was whether they would characterise what happened at Oslo University Hospital, OYS, as being professionally irresponsible. The medical association said they had no reason to claim it now, but they feared that in the further process there could be a risk to patient safety. However, we have received signals from employees that provide examples of what they call professional indefence. We have seen that professional staff have quit their job because they believe that the conditions under which they work make them unable to do a professionally sound job. It goes on their integrity, and therefore they have chosen to resign. We heard no later than today about the news that it is claimed that there has now been a fear culture on the OUS, which means that the employees do not dare to report errors that occur as a result of the process that is going on. This is very worrying, as others have already said. The relationship between employees and management is sluggish, and it seems that there is a sea of distance between management and the reality of employees. When only one of three employees believes that the merger between Ullevål, Aker, the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital will succeed, it is also worrying. Employees experience that good trade unions are being destroyed, and that this affects the patient's offer. We know that within this system we have excellent professional environments that have important functions on a national basis – professional environments that have taken years to build up. Mergers and fictions tend to look good on the desk, but we should not forget that we're dealing with people with a certain amount of professional pride here. It's important to have the employees on the team. One of several examples of this process not going as it should be, we see in relation to the psychosis unit for young people on Ullevål, which is now being laid down. This has been one of the most important disciplines in psychosis in the country. The plan is that the unit should be backed up into a larger youth psychiatric department at the OUS, and the theory is that overnight treatment should be provided in the new unit. But the dissatisfaction with what is now happening has caused all the psychologists to resign. So what are we left with? I guess it'll only be signposted on the wall. Another example, which I have also asked the Minister for Health about, and which I have received a response to, concerns the children's hospital at Ullevål. We have been told that children, who have been gathered at the children's centre, are now spreading around in various clinics. This does not promise well. What we're left with is that the professionals feel that the skills are being squandered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1087	I have followed this debate through the media and here in the Chamber throughout the autumn. It strikes me that usually we are red-green accused of having too little conversion power, at all that we stand on the side and defend systems. I also hear that we are sometimes in the back and cannot be ahead and see that the future requires new solutions. I hear that almost in every debate. In this case, there is something different. Here we experience a very big, demanding conversion, which is big mainly because it's a huge volume. This is the largest unit we have in Hospital-Norway. At the same time, I think we should remind ourselves that, as far as I know, the conversion of Oslo University Hospitals is not greater in percent, relatively than that of Finnmark. It's quite demanding in many other places where you've also been through this kind of conversion, but it's clear that here's the size ratio so that I fully understand that there are many, both employees, patients, politicians and others, who are troubled when you're going through this kind of transformation. But they are necessary, and therefore, of course, I have full confidence in the health minister's handling of the matter. What I spoke about is the one proposal that deals with the so-called ICT bet. I feel that there is no disagreement in this room that there may be some of the most important things we can bet on in the hospital sector in the future. There is no doubt that one of the reasons why the Norwegian economy has been well positioned in the private sector during the 2000s was that many of the changes were of a digital nature, for example. in the banking and financial sectors, when Sigbjørn Johnsen – who is here in the Chamber – led Norway through its department in the 1990s. It has produced tremendously good results, because we have simplified, transformed, done things in completely new ways – quite differently. After listening to this debate throughout the autumn – repeated media essays, press conferences, written questions and debates in the hall – we feel that the opposition last day of the autumn session has not even managed to raise money until what they think is the most important thing to do financially around Oslo University Hospital and that process, but comes up with a new idea of an interest-rate compensation scheme, which I understand will give about 35 million. kr per year over the line. I think, to put it mildly, it is alarming when one has run so tough in this case that within fairly liberal budgetary frameworks one has not been able to find money for it, for example. The representative, Tetzschner, feels that he has suffered as a hump costs, which should have been taken – yes, I understand that Stortinget should perhaps have given it money. So that's not the opposition, and I think that, after this fall, it's very special.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1098	I have to start by asking the Council of State on the first possible occasion to go to the pulpit and complain that she misinformed the Stortinget. The Council of State said in its statement that the opposition has not proposed money for ICT investment in its alternative state budgets. It has done so in the financial position, where all opposition parties have proposed 35 million. kr to an interest-rate compensation scheme for investment in ICT. It is exactly the same model that the government itself refers to under the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs as an interest compensation scheme for school buildings. It says the government's making 2 billion. DKK at the disposal of municipalities for investment in school buildings and sports buildings, and allocates 35 million. kr in interest compensation. So if the government has problems finding the 2 billion in our alternative budget, they should have similar problems finding the 2 billion in the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, a model that was also developed by Trond Giske when he was Minister of Education in the Stoltenberg I government. It is a serious claim made by the Council of State, and it is no less serious by the fact that it is repeated by the chairperson of the Committee on Finance and by the President-in-Office, and I demand an apology from this chair. That arrangement will work very well, because the instalments will only come when the operating gain of the investment will be there. All regional health establishments were consulted within the Committee and expressed their failure, within the framework they had been given, to give sufficient priority to the necessary infrastructure for ICT in Health-Norway. It also said that they were not able to coordinate this work between themselves, and asked the Stortingen to a national financial instrument for ICT infrastructure a national governance thereof; Both proposals have been followed up by the opposition, and it is quite surprising to hear the attitude of the government parties to a play that has come from the leading leaders of Health-Norway – the only point where they had a critical remark about the government's government budget. What the opposition has proposed is not stopping this process, but taking breaks in several areas. It's very easy to draw the parallel to a similar process in Stockholm, where one actually took a year's break where one just focused on patient safety to get back into a constructive track. If the government parties are wondering what the difference is between stopping and taking a break, I suggest they turn on the iPad, turn on the music application and see that the stop button has a square and the pause button has two parallel lines. There is also the difference between stopping and taking a break in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1116	It has been worrying to hear more of the government's representatives in this matter, because it almost sounds as if that opposition is coming up, they are doing to plague the government in some kind of political game. Let me be clear: the need to record this process is great, and it comes with a great pressure from the outside, both from those involved in the process, and from the rest of the country. There is considerable uncertainty about this process leading to patient safety that is good enough. It is uncertain whether the government takes real responsibility, or whether they will follow closely what is going on in this case. For this is not just about Oslo University Hospital; it is about healthcare that affects the whole country and the whole population. We were in our time opposed to establishing Health South-East, because we thought it was too large a region, and that it could go out on the other hospitals in the health company. That's why I've been following this process very closely. We have followed the capital process, because some of the cash flow was to go from the capital process to, for example, the capital process. The Southern Hospital and the Hospital Inland when you started looking at the total. At the same time, the competence they have to contribute to Oslo University Hospital for patients at Sørlanden Hospital and the Inland Hospital has been extremely important – and it is important that it continues so. We're dependent on the point competence that they contribute to. However, it must also be emphasised that when the major processes of Oslo University Hospital are to be carried out, it must not be done in such a way that the other health business operators have to take the bill for what is happening, for this is much more than the capital. If patients are forgotten, they worry you. When you talk about the ICT bet that's going to come and that hasn't started, and that you're going to wait for a plan in 2012, let me give you a little bit of insight into how patients experience this. One called to check that the matter has not been forgotten, and was told that a letter was used one week from Sørlanden to Oslo and one week back again. It sounds like it's riding a horse and a cart. It is incredibly important to be able to meet, for example: the objective of cancer treatment within 20 days to achieve this. Let me end by saying that it will not be relevant that the rest of Health South-East should be involved in taking the costs of what is happening in the capital process. The government has to replenish fresh money so that the big player here in Oslo can contribute his skills and knowledge in the same way they do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1129	I asked for the word to join in what has been said about this with fear and fear culture, which has been up in the NRK – they have reported it – and which is supposed to be something you have at the hospitals in Oslo. I do not know the procedures and guidelines you have at the Oslo Hospitals for notifying of errors that are being made, but the fact that such an investigation has been carried out that I see affects a few thousand employees is all reason to take the matter very seriously. The fact that someone should feel afraid or anxious about losing his or her position or not being employed if you are alerting is really totally unacceptable. The employees of all Norwegian hospitals should know that reporting errors when you see that mistakes are being made against patients is not something you should feel afraid to do, but you should know that you have an obligation to do so – it should be an obligation. This is essential for the quality and safety of patients, and it is essential to improve quality. So it's going to be a duty for everyone. In the light of what has emerged in the media now, I would recommend and encourage the Council of State to address this at the first meeting of health companies, to clarify which warning procedures apply, and to ensure that there is no fear culture in any hospital. It could be a risk factor in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1138	Let me begin where the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen ended, about fear culture. It is in itself laudable that he now asks the Council of State to take this into account. First he says that there is no reason to fear that you will lose your job. When you know that there are almost 1000 jobs to get away from this area in a short time, there is probably reason for some – perhaps for 1,000 people – to fear the job. But so it was announced to the Committee in open consultation that such a culture of fear prevailed. I've taken that very seriously. I actually notified the Labour Inspectorate in the form of a letter after the hearing that this had been done. I have also received a letter from the Labour Inspectorate saying that they take this very seriously and will follow up the matter. So it's being followed up. The other debate is a little strange. The main post of the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen can well be summarised as follows: I fully agree with all the opposition writes, therefore I intend to vote against it. The representative Toppe, on his side, continues to say from this pulpit that no fresh funds have been proposed from any of these parties. Then I will ask her to read the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party, where extra money has been proposed. In the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, fresh funds have been proposed. In addition, all the civil parties in the financial position, as explained by the chairman of the committee, have made proposals on the interest compensation scheme, so I share the representative Höie's wish and demand that the Council of State actually regrets that she misinformed the Stortinget. When the Health Policy Spokesman of the Labour Party says that there has been no change in the assumptions since this was adopted, he may not have had much. What has happened is that Aarhus has been built considerably less than originally planned. We know that there are long waiting times – not least Corridor Asians – on Ahus. Two hospitals in Akershus that had been decided upon, Ski and Stensby, have now been adopted up-to-date because the assumptions have changed. Ullevål can't take care of the business that was at Aker, because they don't have the building mass for it. There are many assumptions that have changed. It is therefore appropriate to consider that things have changed and that there is a need to follow up what the opposition is proposing today. Finally, I just want to come to the representative of Micaelsen's vicious debate on above and below the line. In this case, some of us are more concerned with the patient, whether they are above or below the line, i.e. in hospitals or on a waiting list.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1151	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the employees of Oslo University Hospital who work so hard. Then I almost want to give them some sympathy and compassion for not being heard and understood by the government parties and by their own government council. It is a total “clash” with the description of reality of the Department, Health South-East and the management of Oslo University Hospital, and of the employee, trustee, organisation, patient and health supervisor, who has established a supervisory case. It's not long since I had up in this room the Rikshospital and orthopaedic department, where young people with rare diseases are still waiting for surgery, and have waited a long time, with great pain. The calling systems are not operating at all. Patients themselves and parents tell this – and employees. So what about the reality description: Yes, who's right? Whom should we listen to in Stortinget – one side or the other? Of course, we're listening to both sides, but where the truth is, it's not good to know. But when we get evidence that so much is going on in patients, we have an obligation that people elected to call out alerts, and that's what we're also trying to do. And then we've been trying constructively to make some suggestions that we think can contribute. When it's heard from this pulpit, when you almost attack – it's said that attack is the best defense, of course – in the way we've financed the ICT system, which is in many ways approved and requested from the regional health companies that were at the hearing, I almost don't understand anything. This should be an area that we could agree on. And then finally, I want to refer to what's on the first page of the Committee's position. I won't take the time to read it out, but there's nothing to say that we're going to stop in any way. It's moving too fast. We want a new implementation plan. These are the terms that are used. So please, the government fraction: stop saying from this pulpit that we've asked for a stop in the process. You know that's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1165	First, I would like to congratulate the representative, Mr Tetzschner, whom I believe has a real orientation on what this is really about. He touches something that is very central, that conversions are bad to carry out because it affects people's lives and functions. Here's a really big transition. There are 17 000 employees who are somehow affected. Some of them have to change jobs, and some even have to find other jobs outside the enterprise. So it's clear that this is a demanding and difficult process. Of course you knew that when you started it up. And so is the fear culture that has now been talked about over a period of time, which is to some extent reflected in the NRK today, which is a matter of concern. Of course it worries. I am also very pleased that the new director was so clear that he was also concerned about it – not least the extent that emerged from that investigation today, he was concerned. Now he's been working for a couple of weeks, so I'd give him a little more than a week before he establishes a culture where fear doesn't dominate. It is clear that it is becoming very central to the continuation of the conversions that you have confidence in both management and that you can tell from when you think something is wrong. It's absolutely essential in what we want as ongoing risk analysis, that those who work there actually say from there. It's just through there, health care, county, etc. can detect conditions that are not good. Of course, it's also a wish from the position that you have a culture where you say from. But what I want to challenge the committee leader, on which he looked incredibly easily jumps over – he also did it in the budget debate – is whether Right now leaves the cash principle. Because there is a difference between establishing a compensation scheme for the municipality and whether the government lends to the state. The point of the cash principle is that the country's costs are to be passed over the line of the year in which the cost is incurred, sentence. If it is now that the Right leaves that principle, you are also on the move to abandon the points of the rule of action. I think that's pretty interesting, and that's why we're spending time on this. The right has criticised us – at least in part – in recent years for perhaps expanding budgetary policy. But this hides an expansiveness of 2 billion. In the structural deficit. So I want an explanation from the Right as to whether the party has now left the cash principle, because in that case it is very perceptive, and it will give them little credibility when they talk about the competitive sector in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1176	As I said in my first post, this proposal concerns three elements. First, it applies to local management. There I can't capture the political difference of any significance. Secondly, there is a discussion about risk analysis. There I asked for a concrete explanation of what that means. It should be open to discuss it if it was something new, which has not been in the case and the process before. I'm recording that it hasn't arrived. The third paragraph concerns the issue of a 10 billion loan. kr that costs neither the lender nor the borrower. I think the discussion about above and below the line is for a relatively small club in Norway, some of which are in this room, and some are in some other larger buildings in Oslo, but what everyone can grasp is money in their hands. If I were to run a hospital, what mattered to me was money in my hand. It is undeniable that if the Right's draft budget had been adopted, Oslo University Hospital would have had less money in hand in 2012. It kind of doesn't help with 35 million. kr if a few hundred million are drawn in efficiency measures and if, in addition, some money is earmarked, so that further efficiency has to be made where it is not earmarked. In addition, it is not mentioned that ICT equipment has to be depreciated. The usual is three years, maybe some say five years. Why is it so important? In five years we have to have a new one, then we have to start again. That is why this process must be very serious, and we want to be in this debate. I said that above and below the line is too slightly interested. This is important enough for Norway. Money in your hand is one way to think about it. Another way to think about it is, what does this mean in a private economy? Thirty-five million. kr is 0,2 pst. of the budget of the Oslo University Hospital. If we convert this into a family economy, with an income of 400,000 kroner – to take that example – it's 80 kroner. So it's not this that can take Oslo University Hospital on in the long term. I am therefore unable to see that this proposal in its entirety brings something substantive new into the situation. So it's about asking, what has the government done? A new Chairman of the Board has been set up – it is one of the most important steps for an owner, whether it be a health company or elsewhere in society – and a new Executive Director has been put in place, which I believe has his 13th day at work today. It is important that this management is given an opportunity to get the process on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1191	It was the representative of Tetzschner who made me take the floor, because he made the claim that I minimized the problems. I'm not doing that at all. But the question is who should decide where to take local management – whether it is Stortinget or whether it is management and board. I agree with the representative, Health, who says that he cannot see very much of the disagreement here. It'll be completely impossible if it's the Storing that's going to adopt it as a principle. I actually mean, as I also said in my post, that this is something that the management and the board and the employees have to work out together. So I want to say one thing: for me, the patient perspective is the most important thing. Ensuring the safety and safety of patients is the most important thing we do. That is why we measure the quality of hospitals in Norway. We measure it based on the hospitals' own records. We have now had a large measurement – which we are quite alone in. In fact, we believe that we are the first country in the world to have had it. There are measurements based on the review of journals – approx. 7 000 records all over the country. These are not based on self-notification, not based on anonymous or personalized messages, they are based on a systematic review of all records to detect errors. As I said, it's been done all over the country. Here, Oslo University Hospital is coming out pretty well. We're not going to sunbathe in that shine, but it's actually pretty important to have that perspective even when it's constantly being challenged about what the conditions are like at Oslo University Hospital. Yes, we have great challenges. We have to take care of them. It is difficult for the employees in a demanding conversion process. We must take care of the patient's treatment and the appropriateness in this regard. It has always been the premise when work was started on the conversion process that patients’ safety and health had to be given priority. Then you have to constantly adjust the pace, but actually those who are in management and control have to work with each day, and look at how they proceed. But having a general stop is not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1198	I have unfortunately not been able to follow this whole debate because of other things, but I still want to come up with some considerations about something that I have heard – and some of it that I have on my heart. Firstly, I think that the process of conversion that we are now seeing the end of is a process of conversion that has been taking place throughout Norway – in all hospitals throughout Norway. There have been very difficult processes. There have been challenges, there have been resistance, and there have been people who have been involved, but there has been a very demanding situation. I am very pleased that we have a political leadership in the Ministry of Health who have been concerned about how patients are doing, and who have followed this process closely, and followed up the challenges this has given. I also think that we should not forget the basis/need for the whole restructuring of healthcare in Norway. It was that we were going to spend money in a better way. It was that we were going to spend money from some of the areas of healthcare that had an excess of health money, where we didn't get enough money left for that money. It is about solidarity with the weak groups, which are often mentioned from this pulpit, but not in this context. It's about the money that we're now going to realize by getting a new and modern hospital service, we're going to spend on groups that don't get good enough services today. The reason why the healthcare restructuring also took place was that we saw that we had groups of patients who did not get their services covered within the health framework we had. That is why we had to have a restructuring. So a little bit to what Laila Davøy and Dagrun Eriksen said. I very much agree with Dagrun Eriksen that this is not an Oslo phenomenon. It should have been the other way around. Oslo is a big brother who should have gone ahead and shown the way in how to deal with conversions. When you look at the capacity of the Oslo hospitals in terms of both resources and competence, I think it might have been natural to think that they had been in the driver's seat. They're not. They got started in Oslo at the latest. It is not easy to answer Laila Bavøy to the question: Where is the truth? I think we'll stop thinking about where the truth is, think about what's been. We need to look forward. What's it gonna be like? How are we going to solve this? Then we have to look at this with other glasses. In the South they did so that they placed people who disagreed, both trade unions, trade unions and user representatives, at a hotel, and then they did as they did when the Pope was going to install, they waited for white smoke to come up from the pipe. There is a need for good dialogue between the actors in this case in order to continue this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1212	If it had been so good that you could do as the representative Henriksen now suggested, I would even be a follower of that type of smoke! Otherwise, I have to say that I have been sitting and listening to this debate to hear whether it was a recognition by the government parties and, in particular, by the Council of State that the opposition has a point. But in this debate, as in all the debates that have been on this matter, both inside and outside this room, it is like splashing water on goose to discuss this process with the position. I ask the government councils and government parties to think through how they would have felt if we were in position, and this happened. For what has happened? So half of Health Norway has been merged into one region to solve a problem between hospitals here in the middle of Oslo pot. So the process has gone its way. The danger signals have come – from the supervision, which is independent, and from the employees of their trustees – in fines and buckets. The Executive Director, who is not anyone – Siri Hatlen is one of the top leaders in Health Norway in the last few years – had to throw the cards. The board had to be replaced, and – I kept saying – it almost looks as if someone wanted the trustees to be replaced too, but fortunately they can't. And then, from the case-rapporteur, from the Council of State and from the chairperson of the Committee on Finance here in the Chamber, it is directly misled about the draft budget of the opposition, that the proposal under consideration here today is not included in our alternative budgets. Yes, it is! I can speak for the Christian People's Party. We have more money for conversion, and we have money for the interest compensation scheme – which does not bring anything new,” said Are Health. Why do health businesses come to the Storting and ask for it, then? It is very strange that they would ask for it if it did not bring in anything new. It's all the same here. The Council of State did not even cost itself a small admission that she had misled the opposition's draft budget from the Parliamentary Chair. She didn't say anything about it. She did not respond to the committee chairman's criticism. That's what I think is alarming. But it is entirely in line with how you have handled this matter. It's peace and no danger. You can boast of how well this is going. But everyone else sees the danger signals, and supervision is now investigating serious matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1223	Bent Höie has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1226	I have to repeat the demand for a complaint from the Minister of Health to misinformed the Storting about the opposition's draft budget. According to our model, I quote from page 122 of the draft budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs: «The Government proposes a 2 billion investment framework. 2012 krones, cf. proposals for Roman numerals Decision V. The proposal is estimated to give rise to an allocation need of 70 million. crowns in 2012.’» When the opposition suggests 35 million kr, because this is a new scheme that will not have a full-year effect. It is in line with the response of the Ministry of Finance to the 2011 budgetary procedure. So to the article on the Right Alternative Budget. When the Right suggests that it is possible to spend more of the money in healthcare companies on patient treatment, it is based on two factors. One is cut in the purchase of private consulting services, and the other is in the form of a neutral VAT system that has been publicly investigated, and thus only a small part of what has been estimated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1238	The reason for my drawing again is the visit of the Council of State to the undersigned. So, after she has been more in two posts in the budget deficits of the proposers and at the top of it all has been without the ability to correctly reflect what these parties' alternative budgets contain, I have to go back to the matter, because that is the patients and the conversion. At the end of this debate, I can see as a sort of summary that the Council of State has now given us a political guarantee that enough investment has been made, that the buildings are finished and appropriate, that ICT systems are in place and optimal, and above all – basically – that resources are now in place to fulfil the tasks that the organisation needs to do its job to patients who are there, patients in line and to maintain quality. These are pretty interesting signals, because at the same time there is a political guarantee issued to the Stortinget, which we should notice. It also means – and I think it is excellent if the debate can turn out this way – that the Council of State has taken on the political guarantee and the full responsibility that everyone else reporting differently has been wrong, and that the purpose of this change in organisation is to be fulfilled in due time, in the right quality and in the budget. That is at least a strong conclusion, as the Council of State has presented its information to the Stortingen today – and we should note that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1247	I have also learned that there is money for interest in the opposition’s – at least Right – budget. However, investments must also be carried over the line. There are two different ways of giving money that we're talking about here. However, in the case of health enterprises and loans to them, they must be carried over the line. They shall be carried over the line on a cash basis in the year in which they are incurred. So one thing about reporting anonymously. With the new notification system introduced into the new legislation from the New Year in connection with the revision of the Law of the Cooperation Reform, as well as changes to other legislation, there is a new notification system that goes to the Knowledge Centre, which can also be reported anonymously. I fully agree with those who have said that it is very important that this notification system be used. There's something I'm going to remind health companies about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1254	The representative Thomas Breen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1257	First of all, there can be no doubt that we are concerned about the process that is taking place. It's very worrying what comes out of fear culture, that it stops, and that you haven't started quickly enough to get results from the transition. I don't have as long a seagoing time as former health minister Højbräten, but one of the things that surprises me is that the former director, the now-departed Hatlen, for example. were unable to put in place crew plans for their 17 000 employees, which is essential in such a conversion. So it's urgent to start a part of the transition that's fundamental to the continuation, among other things. the crew plans. If not, this will affect other entities in Health South-East. That's the position very little of the desire to happen. Then, when the committee chairman quotes from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs' budget proposals, I record that he has not understood the difference between lending to the government and lending to others, for example. other countries, municipalities, etc. That's a huge difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1266	I'm going to dampen the tone towards the end of the debate. That does not mean that I believe that the debate should end here. We'll take it up again later, but there are two things I want to comment on. ICT is important for Oslo University Hospital. ICT isn't the whole solution, but it's part of the solution. The grips that the hospital will end up with must be sustainable. What we know about ICT is that it gets very old. So we have to do something in the year that comes, do something in the year after and the year after there again. The problem with postponing the amortisation of something for five years — most likely obsolete, more or less, in five years’ time — is that you commit for ten years, without being able to renew yourself. This is why these types of priorities must be an integral part of the operation and that the priorities are those on which the shoe is attached. The second thing I want to comment on is that we are going to ask for input and criticism from the employees. It is an absolute expectation that employees will feel secure for their opinions. I have noticed that many people understand that it is difficult for a very large number of employees to be in the transition they are doing. I think we all have a great deal of understanding for that. I think it's natural to send an extra greeting about Christmas to employees at Oslo University Hospital, where they do a great job for their patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1275	The representative Per Arne Olsen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1278	I join Are Health's wish for Christmas to the employees of Oslo University Hospital. They need to – not least thanks to the fact that the position will not take seriously any of the signals coming from the OUS environment. What made me take the floor one last time was the representative of Breen. He stands on this pulpit and says that of course you take this situation seriously, and then not to take any self-criticism, and then to conclude that we don't have to do anything, and then to make this a debate about above or below the line. When we consider proposals on patient safety at Norway’s largest hospital, it is made so small, as a debate where self-criticism is not taken, making it a debate on above and below the line – not on patients and patient safety. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1285	In the last round here, there was something more recognition than what I heard in the first part of the debate. That's good. I think everyone here in this room should take on that this is a very complex, very extensive and demanding process. That's exactly why I think the government would be wise enough to try to bring together a broader support for it than what it has proven to be in practice, primarily in the organisations to be merged and restructured, then here in the Stortinget. The proposal that Stortinget is dealing with today is an attempt from the opposition to reach out a hand and be constructive in the involvement of solutions, as we see is entirely required. It is simply not possible in 2011, soon to 2012, that a large, high-tech medical centre has to send test responses and epicrisis in a taxi to each other to ensure that proper patient information is used for diagnosis and treatment — but it does. I've been to hospitals all over the world, both in the job I've had, and in the one I have now, and I think I can find more examples of hospitals in far less favoured countries than Norway that handle this much better. Therefore, investment in ICT needs to be put in place to a much greater extent than has been the case in the past. It should have happened in parallel and much faster. My advice is that you consider it much more important and focus more on it. We've pointed it one way to do it. Of course, it's possible to do this. The representative Breen tried to produce it so that it is not possible within our allocation system. Of course, it is possible for the government to borrow to state institutions. So that's not an argument that holds. I also believe that the cultural challenges need to be assessed much more seriously than what has been done. I think you have to renovate on the desire to take the winnings out as quickly as you've wanted – in fact, that's not going to happen. There's a lot of things here that you could keep on going. I am absolutely convinced that the Stortinget is not finished with this matter. To this end, there has been far too little involvement in a constructive dialogue by the government in today's debate. We know that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the European Parliament is considering whether there should be a check-up case on what has happened. It will not surprise me if that is the conclusion; in my view, it should be the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1297	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1900]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1313	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1322	At the last day of the harvest session – winter and Christmas soon – we will adopt the new aging process for 2011. It is an arena on the basis of which a broad majority of the financial committee is not to be a counter-budget to alternative government budgets, nor to a revised budget. There is more a technical adjustment to the budget, which sets out adopted and proposed changes to the government budget over the year and changes to the estimates for taxes and levies. In some areas, the figures as a result of this have, of course, changed since the budget was dealt with by the Storting nearly a year ago. Essentially, aging reflects a few aspects, but in particular that the Norwegian economy has been doing well so far through 2011. But the situation can turn around quickly. Stoda internationally is worrying. It's already having consequences at home. Several industries already report that conditions on export markets have become more difficult lately, and the Minister of Finance has said that we have to assume that developments in the mainland economy will now be slightly weaker than those underlying the 2012 national budget. The central statistical agency has also adjusted its growth estimates. Nevertheless, 2011 as a whole: It has gone better than expected. In particular, taxes from industry have risen to a record high level. The increase in revenue is passed through an unchanged level of taxation. Despite the fact that many people believe that there are too many taxes in this country, a significant increase in income has been achieved. The companies simply go better than expected. That's good. But because the uncertainty is great, income can disappear just as easily as they came. That is the main reason why I believe that it is not a good idea to translate income increases into new, sustainable expenditure. Then I record that there is in particular one party that uses an improved economic situation as proof that their economic policy would also be good within the rule of action and responsible. There's an understanding that they're all alone, because, frankly, it's not when you're sitting with the fasit that you have to be judged by your ability to rule. Anyone can handle it. What's demanding is to be able to hold back when we don't know what the economic terrain looks like when we have to take into account different possible effects. There is no art of tapping what development has been, but many more demanding to say what things should be, based on the best possible professional estimation at the time. A safe Norwegian economy is about creating budgets based precisely on these estimates in a very unpredictable world. It's about prioritizing things against each other and selecting what you think is most important. It's about having politicians who dare take the load and push by saying no to a number of things when making budgets. It is not, as some people are calling for, about the one billion from or to, but, in my opinion, about following a chalk line that we have drawn up – what we call the rule of action – in the budgetary decisions, not in retrospect. This rule is self-imposed. There's a broad majority in the Bighold that's behind it. It's about trust between the market, other politicians and other countries, whether they think we have the ability to say what we're going to do. That's why I'm critical when, for example. The Progress Party proposes to cancel 17 billion. kr in tolls with a pen stroke by decision here today. It doesn't get majority. I believe that confidence takes a long time to build up economic policy, but a short time to tear down. That is why I would warn against such a decision. So the Right and Advance Party, in the form of a note, have expressed concern over the amount of disparate amounts in respect of the budget and the phasing-out. It's a concern I'm far on the way sharing, but I have three comments to make on it. Firstly, there will always be uncertainty about estimates in economic development, including developments in taxes and taxes. What we now see happening from day to day in the international economy underlines this uncertainty. Secondly, if we compare Norway with other countries in budgetary terms, the Norwegian tax estimates are not particularly different. Thirdly, the Minister of Finance has announced, and has already started, a job. A sample was set up in May to look at the models we use to calculate — even better — estimates that point forward in economic policy. The committee is addressing precisely what we are all concerned with, ensuring the best possible professional basis, so that we politicians do not have to try to make our own estimates when we are going to draw up both budgets from which the country is to be managed and the alternative budgets that the opposition is presenting. Finally, I would like to thank the Financial Committee for its good cooperation over a demanding six-month period, and with that I present the position and wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1339	It is not when the fasitium is available that one should be able to assess whether one had good or bad analyses. Isn't it just when the fasit is available that you have something to judge from? That's the opposite of what the committee's chairman claims, which is the fact. It is when you know how the year has gone, that you can go back and look at the budget proposals that were presented, and see how well they are consistent with reality. 2011 has produced a much better result for AS Norway than the government thought, not just with a few billion, but with 116 billion. kr in better results; £60 billion. kr that goes straight into the oil fortune, 45 bn. kr through taxes and charges and 10 billion. kr through reduced expenditure. That's a lot of money. It shows, given that the chairman of the finance committee and others in the budget debate last autumn gave the impression that a budgeter could be here with millimetre accuracy, and if you spent 1 billion. kr more than the government suggested, you were irresponsible and put interest under pressure, that it doesn't work that way. In fact, as late as last Friday, the Workers' Party stood in this hall and argued in exactly the same way. And that's also the way that the Progress Party's alternate budget, where we spend 1 billion. kr more than the government, would threaten interest rates and increase inflation in Norway. I don't understand how a man dares make such arguments. It is now that one should learn from this kind of debate. We must take the good fundamental debates and the good debates on whether proposals that come forward are good or bad and whether we will support them or not. But one gives the impression that a chalk line drawn by the Ministry of Finance is the only right way to look at the Norwegian economy. That should be the balance of the budget now showing that it is not right. It is also enough to point out various questions that the Progress Party has asked the Minister of Finance – we have asked about the sensitivity of the structural oil-corrected surplus or deficit. There we simply ask: if the oil sector had invested 50 billion in Norway. On the Norwegian base next year, how would an adjusted expenditure side of the structural oil-corrected budget have to be – where would the chalk line have to be adjusted to keep the same pressure on the economy? The answer from the Minister of Finance is nothing. Is it so wrong that if we spend a couple billion more on the road in Norway, it is horrifyingly inflationary – according to the Labour Party – but if you spend 50 billion dollars. NOK in Norwegian capital, does it not matter what can be used in the State budget? Of course it's not like that. I think that the Labour Party must soon move forward in this debate, rather than having a black-painting campaign against those who dare to propose something else. That doesn't mean I'm abdicating a responsibility for discussing whether or not the various proposals that the parties make are reasonable. There is a difference between stimulating the economy by building infrastructure and investing in research, for example: to improve arrangements that make people not want to work. One improves competitiveness and productivity in the future, the other – not to get people to work – does the opposite. There we must be able to take a serious and factual debate and have different arguments. But once again, to bring this millimetre accuracy that the Workers' Party has tried over and over again, that the only responsible use of oil money is the one that the government is proposing, we have been strongly denied now. It is also worth noting that in several of the debates that have taken place in the UK in connection with the 2012 budget, some from the government have said that they have a neutral budget for consideration, while others from the government have said that they have a tight budget for consideration. My impression is that the overall budget has been neutral, while those who have obviously lost the fight for their ministries are talking about a tight budget to avoid criticism. The Progress Party assessed in 2011 that Norway could spend a little more money investing in the public sector to improve the productive capacity of the Norwegian economy and invest more in infrastructure. I believe that the budget we have now shows that that assessment was correct and at least as responsible as the government has prepared. We don't add up to any major rematches, because it's not the aged budget for the arena. But things that can be done and that do not have a sustained budgetary effect, we think it makes sense. When the Seed Fund is empty for money, we think this could be an opportunity to fill in a little bit, but I refer to our budget for 2012, where the stake comes primarily. Finally, when the State budget for 2012 was presented, Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in Dagsavisen on 7 October 2011: ‘We present a budget to keep basics in order: interest, interest rates and employment.’ Only two months later, interest rates were reduced by 0.5 pst. It also shows that the Prime Minister was terribly wrong in how precise the budget was. I hope we get a better debate on the 2013 budget in a year's time than what we got about the 2012 budget. I am promoting the proposal behind the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1366	The representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1369	I'll start by taking up the suggestion that the right-hand side is behind. Just a few comments from the Right-hand side. We are also of the opinion that the ageing process should not be an arena of change or new budgetary priorities. It is important that we be able to stick to the budget that has been set up and avoid too many rematches throughout the year. It could undermine responsible governance. Nevertheless, in the balancing position, we have made a note that we have pointed out the major changes from budgetary appropriations to the accounts. Since 2006, there has been a difference that has totaled about 70 billion. kr, and only in 2011 have you been bombed with about 28 billion. kr. Now it's said that you've been bombing in the right direction, and you shouldn't regret spending almost 100 billion dollars less. Rather, we will see it as the gift of this big business for future generations – for pensions and for security. But the right is nevertheless concerned that we need to have as precise tools as possible, in order to create the necessary respect for the budget. Because if you continue to do the same thing with differences between budgets and accounts, it could over time undermine respect for the budget itself and budgetary work. Finally, we are faced with a year that could be more demanding and perhaps more demanding for countries other than Norway, but, as the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and others have pointed out, Norway must also prepare for the impact of a crisis in several European countries on Norway. Let me then just make it clear that the Right believes it is important in such situations that there is broad political cooperation between parties and between government and greatness. If that situation should arise that it gets worse than it might look now, the Right will of course be prepared to cooperate with the Government to mark the broad political consensus. We think that's important. I would also like to say that Norway is well equipped to deal with such a situation. We have better financial space than any other country, and we have a national bank and financial supervision that has good experience in dealing with financial difficulties. Right-wing concerns are more linked to the long-term challenges for Norway, the Norwegian economy and our ability to build Norway as a knowledge nation and strengthen our competitiveness. But we're not going to debate those questions now, they will give us plenty of opportunity to come back to during 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1384	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1387	The new age is an adjustment to the revised budget, or an adjustment to the new age figures. As many people have been involved, the key figures are very large. The structurally oil-corrected deficit for 2011 has now been estimated at €99 billion. kr, a total of SEK 9.8 billion. kr less than budgeted for in the national budget. Furthermore, the oil-corrected deficit in 2011 is estimated at 84.2 billion. kr and there is a reduction of a total of 50,8 billion. kr. What many people have been involved in, and what the government parties are working on and the Ministry of Finance is getting better analysis to show. At the same time, I would say that it is quite demanding to budget in a situation where the Norwegian economy is in the cyclical phase in which it is in, and it is also difficult to budget if we are to get into a cyclical phase. As others have pointed out, this is a demanding issue, but the deviations are still so large that greater attention must be paid to the academic, statistical and professional environment of the Ministry of Finance. Otherwise, there are several speakers here who repeatedly present Norway as a limited liability company. I haven't said it that many times before, but I want to say it now: those who present Norway as a corporation, I think I have a rather limited understanding of what kind of society we're going to lead. I think we could once have a discussion about it, whether it is the correct description of Norway that it is a limited liability company. If we were to go into company form, it would have been a lot more natural for me to call it a proportion. The net transfer to the State pension fund abroad is 268,3 billion. kr, and with the situation we now have in the world economy, it becomes an increasingly demanding challenge to ensure that that money has adequate security. It is a perception of an increasing number of inhabitants, and especially of those who support the red-green parties, that we should use some more of these available resources to invest in fixed infrastructure in Norway. So the question is how do we do it? I have earlier mentioned the need to look at how the NTP system – i.e. the National Transport Plan – works in relation to ports, traffic controllers, state roads and railways. I think that there has to be a revision of the system, so that the projects are included in the impact-adjusted budget. This will increase the chance to realise it, with a view to further developing welfare systems, which is an important priority. So I want to focus on the business and the historically high activity that is now in the oil and gas sector. We in the Center Party and the Government are very concerned about stable conditions for the oil and gas sector, because that means a lot to us. But as it is now, there is a high level of activity and accounting assesses professionals that it is even higher than what is budgeted. This can become even more a sleep cushion for developing the continental economy, and we need to focus more on that balance. So finally, guarantee commission: Nordic loan commitments have been granted within the IMF, where Norway's share was 240 million. EUR to Iceland. It is unclear whether Iceland will ask for further payments of the Nordic loans, and it is interesting that Iceland started devaluation, improved competitiveness, introduced capital controls, enabled one to have its own monetary policy, and to invest in the Icelandic workforce in working capacity. The Icelandics are doing good. Eventually, random expenses. Additional expenditure on pensions/wages and salaries, etc. where the country is a party to the settlement, it is 7 988 million. kr in 2011. There is a need for any salary bill and any pension plan to publish to the Norwegian people what is the cost when the state, the municipalities or state enterprises are parties, so that we get the consequences of the settlements. It's an important part of the information needed to make the right decisions in the present, not just that we see it in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1404	I'll be brief. To the last post, whether we should characterise Norway as a limited liability company or a limited liability company, there may be differences of opinion. For my part, I'm concerned that these are people it's about. They rarely allow themselves to be disrupted into some form of company at all. But speaking of that, I remember formerly President of the Grand Duchy Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, who was asked what football game she was cheering on. Then she said, "I basically stopped cheering on football the day they became ASs." I think that was really good black. If we're going to commercialize everything in this country, I think we're losing a lot of value, and that's also the basis for much of the Christian People's Party's policy. In the balancing setting, we do not propose the major changes. We could very well take note of the comments made by the Right and the Progressive Party on the tax receipts and the large outflows in relation to what has been budgeted and what has been achieved. But we also believe that the new instruments that will contribute to good analysis can help both the ministry and growth, in order to get proper forecasts of what we get from tax revenue. Otherwise, we are making a proposal to strengthen the work of the voluntary organizations, who work among us in this country that has the heavier burden, not least in the time we now go into, with 12 million. kr. These are organizations that know what they're doing. They know how to use the money, even within this year's budget, so we put in a little proposal that underpins the work they do for our common good. Then I join what Vice President Sanner said, that 2011 behind us it's exciting to see what 2012 brings. We are absolutely prepared, also by the Christian People's Party, to discuss cross-politically what instruments we can put in place if development in Europe escalates further and is also reflected in our own economy, which means that the Storting will revise or adjust its budget before it is originally planned. With that, I'll take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1417	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1420	I just have a few brief reflections, because today is a day of joy in many ways. It goes down in Norway. We spend much less oil money than we assumed, tax revenue is increasing dramatically, and in many important areas, there is the right development in terms of the expenditure of the population, for example. for sick pay, day pay and redundancy payments. All of this is positive, but at the same time we should stop a little bit and think about it. The left is very much in favour of a responsible economic policy and a sober budgeting, but – as many people have been in it – it is not 4 pst. but 25 pst. in the case of the use of oil money, is not good. And that the tax income from mainland Norway is 45 billion. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What we are now seeing is the long-term effects of the 2006 tax reform. If I did not hear errors, the committee leader said that he would meet the request for a review, and that is good. The problem with such a budgetary practice is that it actually gives good arguments to those who claim that more oil money can be used than budgeted. That is why, in the view of the Left, we should have both a new discussion on the level of the rule of action and a new discussion on the entire budgetary practice during the spring. I have previously stated that we should have an additional moment for the pure 4 pst. rule, for example. in addition, oil money consumption is limited as a maximum share of GDP. Objectively, for those who want to take some time to read the alternative budget of the Left, they will see that on some essential points we are making a good deal, including: in the case of tax revenue, sick pay, day-to-day pay, CO2 allowance trading and symbolic policy issues such as fuel freight balancing and power purchasing guarantee schemes. However, a few things are worrying, including: the number of those making early retirement is further adjusted in the new age and is now twice as high as was foreseen, contrary to the intention of the pension reform. The answer to why that happens is obviously three letters: AFP. In the long term, there is no public sponsorship of billions of years for people to stop working before they should, sustainable, and that has to be done in the Left's view. Trade in CO2 allowances was the subject of the debate on the Ministry of Finance's budget proposal. In that debate, the Minister for Finance did not take the floor. I see that he is going to do it today, and I will therefore challenge him again on realism in the next year's budgeting, where it is added up to a quota price of 110 kroner, while the price per day is below half, and the price yesterday fell further, as a result of the prospects of a warm winter and low energy prices. If I am going to have a wish for the next year, it is that we take a biased debate on how we can make better than the estimates underlying the budget that was first adopted, and that we look with new eyes at today's rule of action – whether it should be amended or supplemented. Then I wish the President, the Minister for Finance and good co-representatives on the Financial Committee a really good Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1444	The President thanks for that and wishes Christmas back to the representative Tenden!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1447	We shall be pleased that the 2011 budget has been strengthened throughout the year. This shows that we have a strong production and growth capacity in the Norwegian economy. It gives us bigger reserves, which can be good to have in the time to come. It also shows that the framework for economic policy works in a good way. All of this is positive, and we have to stick to this. In many parts of Europe, the situation is different. Millions of people face an uncertain future, and it is not possible now to predict where this will end. That puts political leadership to the test. It's more important than ever to regain confidence in general and people's trust in particular. It is more important than ever to give unemployed youth hope and dreams for the future. The situation in Europe affects Norway — directly through export markets, and indirectly through the narrowing of export markets for emerging economies. If so, it could also affect Norway through the oil price and the price of other world markets. In other words, we are part of the European and global destiny community. Growth is expected to be low in Europe in 2012, and there are also signs that growth in, among others, China and other heavy players in the world economy will fall. The 2012 budget took into account uncertainty. Up until the third quarter of this year, we've had growth for eight quarters in a row. There are now signs that growth is decreasing in the fourth quarter, and that we see greater signs of a two-way split in the Norwegian economy, between traditional export-oriented industry and oil-related industry. That is why I said earlier this year that we have to expect a lower growth rate in 2012 than what has been foreseen. We'll be right with you. We have a high level of preparedness, and we're ready. We notice the situation in Europe in a number of ways. This is more difficult for the export industry. This is why competitiveness is important in the year we go into – and not least wage-fixed. We've noticed it through a change in interest rates in the money market, but we've seen in the last few days that the money market rate in itself has gone down somewhat, among other things. as a result of interest rebates from both the Bank of Norway and the European Central Bank. We see that this gives – and can give – increased borrowing costs for the banks. Monetary policy is the first line when uncertainty and prospects for growth and inflation change. Through monetary policy, one shall mitigate the effects of unrest, one shall prevent, as far as is advised, borrowing costs from increasing, and one shall mitigate the pressure on the currency, at least in the situation we are currently in. So it could be different in other situations, when the pressure goes in the other direction and a looks like overheating of the economy. We have a high level of preparedness in the Ministry of Finance and the government. The Bank of Norway and the Financial Supervisory Authority have high preparedness and shall provide liquidity and financial stability. We're in a completely different situation than the countries we're looking around us -- which more people have been in. We have strong government finances, we have high material wealth and high quality of well-being. Where other countries reduce or decrease, we guarantee – and strengthen – the basis. It's not natural that it will continue that way. That's why we have to take care of the possibilities. We need to strengthen and secure what we ourselves can handle. We're going to build up under productive capacity and growth force – we're going to come back to that. We need to keep state finances and the economy in order. We also ensure the sustainability over time – and the well-being of our children and grandchildren. Economic policies are essentially two simple words — trust and security. That is essentially what economic governance is all about. We're approaching 2012. It's going to be an exciting year. I guess that's what I can say now, like some kind of divination. It can be a demanding year for all of us, because we don't know what's coming, or what we're meeting out there. It will produce the best in politics, where we must all be prepared to contribute. I am pleased with the signals that also come from the opposition that time can now require us to do this through a common promise and a common approach. That's good!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1466	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1469	The Minister of Finance stressed the order of the Norwegian economy. I fully agree with that. In fact, I think everyone on the Biggest agrees with that. At least no one argued for the opposite. However, it is a bit striking that when looking at the order used by the Minister of Finance for the 2012 budget, Norway’s Bank has nevertheless opted to lower interest rates by 1⁄2 percentage points, obviously because it is concerned about the cooling down of the economy. Today, LO leader Roar Flåthen, who sits on the central board of the Finance Minister's party, was outside and encouraged people to be more materialistic – act more – to keep up the pace of the economy. It is not entirely in line with LO’s climate policy of 2007, but nevertheless a reflection that he is concerned about the situation in the Norwegian economy. Was part of the government's objective for order in the economy that Norway's Bank should reduce interest rates by 1⁄2 percentage points, or could it actually be that the 2011 budget and what has been adopted for 2012 have not been as well adapted to the economic situation of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1478	As I said in my speech, the 2012 draft budget raised the uncertainty we saw at the time. It's important to underline it. Then we have seen that after the budget was presented, uncertainty has increased in Europe. This has led to a new estimate of growth in Europe, which now shows that a zero — one can actually also have a decline in growth — in countries in Europe. In such a situation, Norway’s Bank’s instruments are the first line. They have used it through the rate drop they arrived at a week ago. That's good, and it shows that the first-line defense works when you also have to take into account the possible concerns that you look a little further ahead. That is good, and it fits well with the role that both fiscal and monetary policy must play. Then we come back to the third element – income policy – a little beyond the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1487	This illustrates that one only relates to the time when the government provided its budget – that is, the beginning of October. The fact that there has been information between the presentation of the budget and its decision in the Storting does not, therefore, affect the size of the final budget adopted. The government is providing a budget. It's the Stortinge that decides. Is it not strange, then, when the Minister of Finance himself admits that information has come after the presentation of the budget, which suggests that the situation is getting worse? Nevertheless, neither the government nor the majority of the population chooses to make a single change – a change adapted to the new information that came with it. So here one has adopted a budget that is obviously no longer adapted to the current situation. Just as for the 2011 budget, there has been dramatic changes — and this time it may go in the opposite direction for the 2012 budget. Wouldn't it be more real if the Storting actually got affected by the budget, so that one took over the latest information available?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1498	It's the last day of today's debate in the Great Britain on the 2011 budget, and we'll be back in 2012. I had not really thought – I kept saying – to answer in a different way than that it seemed polite. But it's actually quite important to hear what I'm saying, because I said that the 2012 budget has taken into account uncertainty. But at the same time we have said that we also have a high level of preparedness if things were to go from bad to worse. I happened to find a newspaper clip from the Norwegian Telegram Bureau on my desk, dated November 16, 2011. It says: ‘The FRP alternative state budget for 2012 has been put together in a completely different way from that of the government, but the party remains formally within the framework of the rule of action [[...]] So there's budget work by the input method!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1510	Yes, there may be many coincidences in Norwegian politics. My question is related to the 2012 wage settlement, which has already been addressed by the Minister of Finance in his statement and in his answer, namely the danger that we may face a two-way street – with the sheltered sector and the competitive sector. Of course, I am aware that the estimates for wage-fixing are not politically defined. At the same time, they will have very strong leadership. There are leaders of the state budget, of local government budgets, and it can in itself create expectations about what is going to happen. Therefore, it is important to reflect the attitude of the Minister of Finance and the Government – if you think that 4 pst. growth estimate is acceptable, or if you think it is too high. Is it time to adjust the salary estimates to the next year for the sake of safe jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1521	As I also said in my post, what we are now looking at in Europe, where one is downgrading the growth estimates, will also be able to tap into the Norwegian economy. This means that we must also be able to calculate a slightly lower growth in the Norwegian economy – that is the starting point. The estimates given in the national budget are, of course, the best estimates at that time, given the assumptions that one sees for the development of the Norwegian economy. We are not going to make any new estimates, either on growth or wages, until the revised national budget. I think it is important to stress that what we are now seeing, with challenges for the Norwegian export industry, among other things, could have consequences for the generation of income. But I trust that the parties will be able to handle it in a good and sensible income statement when we get out a little bit in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1528	It is most natural that the lines are going on in the future and not in the past, after all, so I thought I would try the finance minister and ask a little like when Norway's Bank is going to tell about the development of interest rates, and they say that there is'more likely' or 'less likely' with one or the other interest rate fluctuation: does he consider it more likely that he will come back with budgetary adjustments before the revised budget, or the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1533	On Hedmark we have an expression when we kind of don't get quite caught on the fishing trip, that there was «a leifisk». It is a difficult question posed by the representative Syversen, because it is almost impossible to predict the future, and especially in the light of the uncertainty in Europe, and what we now see in the world economy. But what the representative of Syversen can be quite certain about is that if the situation goes from bad to worse – if action is needed – we are prepared to act quickly. But that's the situation and what's happening, which will determine it. That's essentially the best answer I can give now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1541	I'm also going to start from the future. By the end of 2010, Norwegian municipalities had a combined so-called cumulative positive premium deviation related to the pension obligation of 22.4 billion. kr. I understand that this premium deviation will have major operational consequences for the municipality of Norway in the years to come. In fact, as a result of KRD's pension accounting rules, the municipalities have actually lived on advances and carried income of 22.4 billion. kr in the operating budget for the period 2002-2010. This must be covered over a period of 15 years. This really worries the municipalities out there, and it also worries KS. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, what are his assessments about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1550	First, I would like to answer a question that the representative Tenden asked in his post, so it should not be left unanswered. Yes, it is quite demanding to estimate the allowance price in 2012. Of course, we're going to work on it to look at the possibility of making the best possible estimates in that area, and then we have the big estimate overall. But it's demanding, and it's clear that it's a challenge that the price is now so low. In the case of pension costs and expenditure on pensions in the local government sector, this reflects several things. This reflects, among other things: the strong growth we have seen among municipal employees in recent years as a result of the commitment to important welfare services — kindergartens, care for the elderly and other things. It also reflects the growth in earnings in the municipal sector, so there are several issues that we have to address here. But what I can say is that this is a matter that the government is concerned about, because we see that it places significant burdens on the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1559	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1564	It's quite remarkable numbers that are really there, and we're all going to be happy about that, but there's a lot of people who have said that the effusion should not be a rematch on the budget. I also belong to those who believe that the signals we send out during the initial budgetary procedure are quite important. Making it more expansive or less expansive will actually be signals captured. That's exactly why I think it's very important with the credibility of the figures and the basis laid down in the original budget debate. We have included the common tax and the estimates for it in a note – we have to note that oil taxes have been kept out, because it is widely known that predicting the oil price is at least not a simple exercise. But that's exactly why it's quite surprising that the estimates in the common tax are almost as uncertain, because there are not small adjustments we're talking about. The adjustments in the common taxes on mainland Norway, i.e. the value-creating business in mainland Norway, range from 169 to 196 billion. kr – 27 br. kr, that's 15 pst. adjustment – and in an economy where we say that there is a large public sector that is stabilising this quite strongly. You can almost budget the tax input on the crown. So I might miss a recognition that these are a lot of relationships that you actually don't know. There may be errors in the models, and there is a basis for taking a full review of them. I have asked the Minister of Finance about this earlier and have received a satisfactory answer, so I only hope the sample works well. But it puts a bit of the tax debate in a strange light, because I think there's a lot of dynamics here – even as we don't know. We have a lot of debate about taxes on working capital. I think the diversity of private ownership is one of the most important drivers behind some of the challenges that the Minister of Finance is also facing, the two-part Norway and this with productivity, which are some of the biggest challenges we have. There, I think keeping a variety of private ownership is very important. When we then see that the debated property tax on working capital is only less than a quarter of the adjustment we are now making in the tax estimate for the common tax, it puts a bit of the debate in perspective. In fact, I think it's such a devastating tax that we should be able to get it out of the rhetorical debate and perhaps more on how we govern Norwegian society in the future, so that we can increase future well-being. I think it should be recognised that private, diverse ownership is one of the drivers of good innovation and good productivity development in Norwegian society, and that is also the prerequisite for further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1579	In this case, the Progress Party promotes its own proposal to cancel toll companies' debts by 17.2 billion. kr. If the proposal has a majority in the Stortinget today, it will be possible to remove the bombs on 1 January 2012 across the country. In the event, it will be a jubilee day from Finnmark in the north to West Agder in the south and will be the Christmas gift of the times to Norwegian drivers. Yes, it's about big money, but tolls are also a great injustice. Norwegian drivers are already paying much more in car charges to the country than the state is using on the road, and it is grossly unfair that the drivers at the top of this car have to pay an extra tax in the form of tolls in order to build roads. Tolls increase sharply from year to year. In 2009, toll revenue was 5.6 billion. kr. In 2010, toll revenue had increased by 10 pst. to 6.2 billion kr. In addition, tolls will only increase and increase in the years ahead, as long as the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party deprioritise state money to new roads. We already saw this when the Stortinget dealt with the National Transport Plan, and the majority parties – SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre – expected the drivers to pay in the form of extra tax for the period 2010–2019 for a total of 60 billion. Extra kroner. However, with collection costs and interest rates on the top, unfortunately, the bill is much larger for the drivers in Norway. The oil fund is expected to grow from about 3,000 billion. NOK today to NOK 6000 billion. in 2020. Why can Norway not at least use a small proportion of this increase to invest in new safe roads without tolls? We didn't even have to use more than 10 pst. to obtain a national motorway network between all the largest cities in the country – without tolls. In Germany, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party use oil money – which they lend away – to build a road. After all, the government has borrowed $61 billion. kr of the oil fund to our neighbours in the south, so that Germany can build more and more new and safe roads. The interest rate on the loan is actually 1.8 pst. Wouldn't it have been nice to get good roads in this country too, instead of Norway acting like a global Christmas event in every respect? Unfortunately, there is little chance that the Progress Party will have a majority to cancel the toll. All the other parties – from SV to Right – seem to be good tolls, and that everyday drivers should be punished for keeping Norway going. Investment in good and safe roads is a long-term investment in quality of life and security. More and more countries have better infrastructure than Norway. Albania had the slowest traffic in Europe between its largest cities for years, but now they have actually passed Norway, so that we are left in the jumbo area while the rest of Europe falters from us at a high pace. One of the reasons for this is that the other parties in this country are insisting on toll financing for large projects, rather than taking the necessary steps. I'll encourage all the other parties to think through the holidays we're all in after all. Many people are struggling and have difficulty getting the ends to meet. Tolls hit everyone, at least those who actually have at least before, but who are totally dependent on the car.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1594	I respond a little to the Minister of Finance's arrogance when he is unable to answer the question in the reply. It's okay that he lives into a fairy tale world when he reads "Snecker Andersen" to Christmas, but it's not as good when he puts in a fairy tale when he answers in Stortinget. It has been claimed that the Progress Party budgets according to the approach. It's pretty straightforward. We may disagree on priorities, but saying that there's no thought behind it, pretending that there isn't a whole in it, is free. The progress party has a document on almost 100 pages that shows how we re-prioritize, how the whole thing exists. The fact that the Workers' Party doesn't like that whole thing, I can live well with it, but it exists. The fact that we're using 1 billion. kr more than the government of the 2012 budget is a fact. That number -- is it a coincidence that there is only one billion dollars and therefore within the rule of action? It might as well be 1.1 billion. kr, or SEK 0,9 billion. kr. We don't go around and then pretend there's a millimeter precision. But it's not random that it's 1 billion. kr instead of 100 br. kr. It's not random that it's 1 billion. kr instead of 10 br. kr. So this has nothing to do with the input method. The Minister of Finance continues to claim that his budgeting is well adapted to the economic situation. It is a little special when a budget presented in October, when one believed in large growth, is just as good in the economic situation as it is seen two months later, that can go against greater unemployment, a sharp decline in economic cycles. Then, unfortunately, this becomes just a speck, and we should stick to that for good. We should deal with realities. It is also quite special when the Council of State itself, in a letter to the undersigned on 7 December 2011, admits that the structural oil-corrected deficit is not affected by the investment of 50 billion. kr more than planned on Norwegian base. Then it shows that budgeting here is fairly approximate, and then one should at least be careful even to assign others one millimeter of accuracy in terms of what one expects. In the 2011 budget, the Progress Party included estimates showing that an assumed dynamic effect due to tax reliefs. I'm fully open that we can discuss the magnitude of those effects, and that those effects vary depending on what taxes and what taxes we're talking about. Some tax reliefs may have considerable dynamic effects, others will have small – similar to tax. It was a little interesting that committee leader Torgeir Micaelsen on 25 November last year sent a letter to the SSB asking if it was at all possible to make calculations on dynamic effects. He made a lot of fuss about that. But when he got the answer on December 12, last year, we heard nothing. Then the SSB confirmed that it was actually possible to discuss the numbers, but that the Progress Party did, the SSB had no problem. Therefore, it is also a little special when the same committee leader has also spoken in this debate this year and in the 2012 budget that the Progress Party is doing irresponsible things, when the SSB actually confirmed the opposite last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1614	In the past, a number of references have been made when using the word ‘flake’ as a description of the positions of political opponents. It is still not a parliamentary expression. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1901]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1632	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1640	Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e1648	In the course of the debate, a total of seven proposals have been put forward, namely proposals Nos. 1-7, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to terminate Norway’s participation in ILO Convention No. 169 on the first and best occasion for indigenous peoples and tribal peoples of independent States.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to repeal the Finnmark Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to examine and promote the necessary proposals to transfer all the densely populated land in Finnmark from the Finnmark property to the municipalities immediately.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and promote the necessary proposals that will result in the unattracted land of today in Finnland being remanufactured as real estate.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to examine and promote the necessary proposals so that the areas currently included in the Finnmark property, together with the areas of State Forest in Nordland and Troms, come under a legal status similar to that of the State’s land area in the rest of the country.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to examine and promote the necessary proposals, so as to put an end to the merger.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to complete the management area of the Sami languages, as set out in the Annex. Law on the Sameting and other Sámi Laws Chapter 3. ‘... [[cohesion]] Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e3875	During the debate Per Arne Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Government asks governments: 1. Ensure that a new and comprehensive risk analysis is carried out of the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital HF, which will lead to a renewed implementation plan adapted to avoid a loss of quality and patient safety. 2nd@item: inlistbox To order Health South-East RHF to strengthen the local management of the different departments of the underlying health enterprises. 3rd@item: inlistbox Establish a State funding scheme for ICT health care activities of 10 billion. crowns are made available to all regional health establishments during a period of five years. The amount shall be granted as an interest-free loan, which shall be deductible for the first five years. The choice of ICT solutions shall be managed at national level and it is necessary to ensure the functioning of the systems across health businesses and between levels of administration.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e3914	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCrones621Contributions to social services and social inclusion70Freedom of employment, may be transferred, increased by 12 000 000 from NOK 52 760000 to NOK 64 7600005800 National pension funds abroad50Transfer from the fund, reduced by 12 000 000 from NOK 134 971 016 000 to NOK 134 959 016’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e4006	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCroner5800 State pension funds abroad50Transfer from the fund, reduced by 50 798 400 000from NOK 134 971 016 000 to NOK 84 172 600 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e4062	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: 967Såkornfonds90Capital deposits100 0000001323Bombing projects70The cancellation of toll companies' debts on road projects as at 31 December 2010 may be transferred, increased by 17 200 000 0005800 Member States' pension funds abroad50Transmission from the Fund, reduced by 68 519 941 000from NOK 134 971 016 000 to NOK 66 451 075 0005999State loan funds90Loans100 101 600 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e6009	There are no proposals for comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-20.ana.ud622e6022	There is no record. Since it's the last meeting of the year we're about to end, the President will be allowed to mark it by wishing Christmas. We've put behind us a very special six months, when the nation was put to the test, and I want to thank all the parties and all the representatives of the Stortinge for the contributions that have been made to deal with that matter in a good and dignified way in a difficult time. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the employees of the house and the press, with whom we work, for the way they have dealt with the challenge that our country faced after the terrorist acts of July 22. Now we're going to a well-deserved Christmas holiday. We're all going to celebrate Christmas with our closest friends, but I hope and believe that in each of our Christmas celebrations this year we're going to have our thoughts with all the injured, the survivors and not least the survivors after the terror of July 22. Our thoughts and compassion are also going to be with them in the Christmas celebration. I wish everyone a peaceful Christmas and a good new year. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
