ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e47	The so-called alternate of Oslo, Karin Yrvin, has taken his seat. The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e55	I am delighted to propose a representative from the representative of Trine Skei Grande and myself to set up a public body to follow up the responsibilities reform in order to improve the life situation of mentally retarded people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e60	The representative, Laila Marie Reiertsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e63	On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Vigdis Giltun, Per Sandberg, Harald T. Nesvik, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to make a proposal on tax deductions for crafts and service jobs carried out in my own housing to fight against black work and to facilitate increased employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e68	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e71	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new Green Tax Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e76	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e88	The Stortinget received on Wednesday's announcement from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kristin Halvorsen, Grete Faremo and Lars Peder Breck will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e95	I would like to ask questions to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. On 13 April this year, the Matkette Committee presented its position on the conditions of power within the food chain. In this context, it was clearly linked to high expectations as to what measures would be taken to lower prices for consumers in Norway. But they also looked forward to once and for all to see where the margins in the food chain were taken out. So there's been a significant subsequent debate, not a debate on what's in the NOU that the Food Chains Committee has come up with, but on what this sample hasn't taken care of, and not least what's not in the NOU. In this regard I will quote from page 65 of NOU 2011:4 Food, power and power: «Previous studies have shown that adequate margin studies identifying the price overrun or the price transmission between the different stages of the value chain are difficult to carry out.» But at the same time they say, ‘Such studies are often a prerequisite for providing adequate answers to how the value creation in the food value chain is distributed.’ There's no such study done in this NOU. The results of previous studies have also not been taken into account. Furthermore, the large cooperative organisations and regulators, such as Tine, Nortura and the Joint Purchase, have not been caught. Nor does it seem that there is any willingness to go in and see how we can bring down the food prices. My question to the Council of State is this: does he wish to bring down food prices, and will he also intervene in the major cooperative chains?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e120	It was an important event that the Matkette Committee presented its position, a setting of great interest and parallelities internationally. The same discussion is taking place today internationally – on how food prices develop, who takes care of the values and exploits the value creation in the food chain, and, not least, where power lies. The selection, led by former Councillor Einar Steensnæs, was set up to assess the strength of the food value chain. That means they've looked at all of the terms, including the cooperatives. The selection has found that there has been a major change in the power conditions in favour of the umbrella chains in trade. Therefore, the sample focuses on trade in the evaluation of the proposals that have been made and in the proposals for measures that they have presented. The studies of the sample show that the daily food trade is growing and delivering good results. It's very good in itself. It expands the value chain and explores new business areas that can be very challenging, including: for property, other trade in goods, industry, etc. Then we also know that large suppliers to the food chain can have power in the chain by controlling brand products – and in that way influence. The challenge here is that there are many small suppliers outside that can't be accommodated. So there are four gatekeepers, four people, who decide what kind of food we get on our shop counter. This challenge is what the sample addresses. It's also true that they've looked at all the stages in the value chain. I am concerned that the result we get in this investigation will provide better quality, better offers and – hopefully – lower prices in the store.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e133	I noticed that the council did not answer the question that I asked him. My question was as follows: Will the Council of State ensure that these regulators, the cooperative organisations, will also be reviewed, as well as, among other things. have significant market power? Further: VG Nett can today, among others. provide information on the attendance figures only now in the Passover related to election and trade in Sweden, i.e. lost revenues for Norwegian retail trade. Only in Easter there were 472,000 visitors from Norway to trade in Sweden. The three largest centres there, in Svinesund, in Charlottenberg and Töcksfors, traded for 264 million. kr in the Easter week. These are lost food workplaces in Norway. Then is my question to the Council of State: When will the Council of State address this issue, so that we can get lower prices and thus increase employment in the food industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e140	I would like to stress that the selection that has been led by Einar Steensnæs has looked at the power conditions throughout the value chain, also in terms of cooperatives and other large suppliers. They have drawn their conclusions from how power has changed in recent years. That is why the main focus is on the food chain. Of course, we will consider the proposals that the sample makes. There will be a large public consultation of the committee's proposals, and then we will get back to a follow-up to the actions. In the case of border trade, there is a phenomenon that exists at all borders between countries where there is a different level of wages and prices and where it is profitable to trade the goods on the other side of the border. So Nordmänn acts in Sweden, the Swedes act in Denmark, the Danes in Germany, etc. etc. It is also the case that this action is determined by both peculiar taxes, level of fees and salary levels, which affect prices in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e147	Three follow-up questions have been asked – and given an opportunity. The first follow-up question is from the representative Torgeir Táldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e150	I will continue to pick on what the previous representative hacked at, because as usual we do not get the answers we are asking for. In the agricultural settlement, billions are pumped into the Tine regulator, among others. to bring down the milk price. Today we have the most expensive milk in the world. We have a milk price that's twice as high as in other countries, and we're on top in every way. What you did last year was to go from normal crowning to percentage duty, which gave consumers an extremely expensive milk. This particularly affects families with young children. But now we see that there are leaks going on that you have to do the same with cheese. What we're now at risk is getting a customs percentage of milk over 430. We can risk getting a customs percentage of cheese between 400 and 600, which will give consumers extremely much more expensive cheese, and which will make us invade Sweden a lot more. Can the Council of State guarantee that the families of young children in Norwegian homes do not have to pay for the misguided social policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e157	I notice that the Advance Party and the representative of Träldal will continue to ‘hack’. It's okay to dig into challenges, but ‘hacking’ may not be the right concept here. The point is that we have high nominal prices of food in Norway. We have that because it costs something to maintain Norwegian food production. Relatively, it is also that we spend very little of our income on food – between 10 and 11 pst. It is one of the lowest proportions in Europe. It must also be taken into account in this context. Preparation of the agricultural agreement negotiations is now under way. Of course, I do not want to get into this discussion, we are waiting for the demands made by the organisations. On the last farm settlement, we have changed the rates of duty by allowing the introduction of a percentage duty on milk. This means that we have a greater opportunity to exploit market opportunities in Norway, which is also important for agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e166	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e169	In the evening post last October, State Council Breck thought the food was too cheap. Now we've got a food chain selection, and one of the main findings is that the food is too expensive. It is unclear to me what the Council of State Breck now really believes about the food prices. The only thing that is clear is that he has said that he should present a big message about this. Then my question is: if the Council of State is to present a message to the Stortinget, and one of the main findings of the sample is that the food is too expensive, then the Council of State Breck will ensure that the Stortinget gets an overall review of the meal, all from production and out in the shops, to see what it is that causes the high prices, or won't he? Now, what we've got from the sample is just a partial review.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e177	What is indisputably one of the conclusions of the Matkette Committee is that they have assessed the level of food prices in Norway. We know that it costs something to have an import protection, we know that it costs something to have a food production that makes us produce food throughout the country. That leads to higher prices. But then the Food Chains Committee has found that regardless of any strange action, specular policy and specular level of fees, the prices of food and other products in Norway that the food chains sell to their customers are still higher. I'm concerned that we're going to take advantage of the competitiveness of the entire value chain, including competition at the last stage, to get lower prices. Whether it's a big message, we'll get back to it. What we have said is that we should have this NOU out at public hearing. We hope that it will be completed by November, at the same time as the EU also delivers the results of the same studies carried out in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e184	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e187	I want to remind the Council of State of what he said in the debate on 14 April at the House of Literature. On questions from the programme manager about who is responsible for the high food prices and the low sample, the council replied that it was the food chains that had to take responsibility, and that it was their fault that the situation is as it is. Does the Council of State still insist that food chains are responsible for poor selection and high prices? And what effect does he think this should have on food chains?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e192	I have said in every context in connection with the presentation of the Food Chains Committee that there are different conditions that affect prices. It is quite clear that our peculiar policy – charging policy, agricultural policy, import protection – affects food prices in this country and makes them higher. But what is also clear is that the food chains have a responsibility, and that responsibility must be tolerated by the food chains. I have been very concerned about taking responsibility for the social responsibility of food chains, because I believe that they have a responsibility to get Norwegian products into the shops. What we're experiencing is that the four chains act as gatekeepers, preventing small producers from getting their products into the chains and into the shops, so that as consumers we can have a greater diversity. I continue to work to increase diversity. I continue to work to have good competition in the food chains, but I also continue to work to ensure that we have agriculture throughout the country, and then we have to bear the cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e203	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e206	With this government things often take a terrible long time. There are now barely two months left of this school year, so there are two school years since the red-green government sent out the big message Education Line. This now means that a new coal student leaves Vg2 professional without certainty in order to get a job. In the autumn of 2010, 2,500 young people remained unskilled. The offer they often receive is a theoretically heavy third year that leads to study competence. It is very little motivating for students who want to take a letter, and – perhaps not surprisingly – this is where we have the biggest drop-out in higher education – approx. 50 pst. by the students; Now, new thousands of professionals are at risk of not getting a place to learn, because two years after the presentation of the Education Line, what was pointed out as key measures for recruiting apprenticeships is still not in place – despite the government saying that they will give a boost to the professions. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is as follows: Where does this social contract become between the education authorities and the social partners? And where do obliging figures for the admission of apprentices into state enterprises make it possible to help ensure that the professionals who want them receive a place to learn and complete their vocational training?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e217	It is now a completely different force in the work against the drop-out in higher education than it has been in many years, and it is because I have invited the counties to participate in systematic cooperation, not least because they have accepted it very well, because many of the counties have worked on it themselves – a little separately – but without a systematic way of exchanging experience and setting goals. We now have two subordinate projects through the New GIV project. One is the Transition Project, and the other is the Follow-up Project, and the third is that we have a separate set of indicators that enable us to measure how we achieve results. Work is also in progress on a new social contract, which is a contract between the social partners and the authorities to provide enough apprenticeships. However, the employer’s side has approached me because they have wanted the investigation we have on the right to an apprenticeship – and I am waiting for it – to be cancelled, because they fear a conclusion on the one they do not want to accept. Such a procedure does not seem to me to be a constructive starting point for dialogue, nor is that what is meant by that investigation. However, we agree that we should work together on more apprenticeship places for the next school year. I've now had meetings with at least two thirds of the counties, and my impression is that they're going a long way earlier than before to get apprenticeship places. I have also addressed the same type of problem with KS, because many people in health and social care say that they lack municipalities that will accept apprentices. In addition, the government has decided that we should set clear targets to increase the number of apprenticeship places in the state enterprises for which we are directly responsible, by 10 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e230	I hear the Council of State says that there is ‘power’ in the measures. At least that didn't help the 2,500 students who didn't get an apprenticeship last fall. So just to do a few examples, in Finnmark, which is the state that has the greatest non-response, it was 38 pst. by students who did not have an apprenticeship. In Troms there were 25 p.m., in Hedmark there were 30 p.m., and in East Agder there were 29 p.m. by students who did not have an apprenticeship. Here it is that the dropout is record high. I hear the Council of State describes indicators and systems, but I miss focus on the student. I also miss the fact that there is more power behind the demands that there should be more State apprenticeships. I also miss this social contract that is not yet in place – two years after the big message arrived. I challenge again the Council of State: When will the social contract be available? And what immediate action will the authorities put in this harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e241	I believe that, like me, the representative of Aspaker believes that it is not acceptable for some organisations in society to push through political decisions to cancel an investigation as it is a majority in the Stortinge to do so. So that's what I'm going to do! If it is the case that employers’ organisations want a different type of dialogue with us on apprenticeships for the next year while this investigation is being completed, we would like to do so. That dialogue is in progress. What is crucial then is that the counties are early out, and they are far earlier this year than they have been when it comes to acquiring apprenticeship places. I fully agree that we have to make sure that those who choose the profession and want to complete that education with an apprenticeship get it. That's exactly why we're investigating the right to an apprenticeship – just to strengthen their rights. We have a lot of pressure on the work to get more apprenticeship places. I hope to have a constructive dialogue with the employer’s side, which is entirely dependent on people with professional letters in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e252	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e255	I guess I could say that based on the answers I've heard, I don't think there's anything that triggers the big difference in the number of apprentices that don't fit into the harvest, when they're going to learn. Then the option Vg3 is added. Vg3 build-up turns out to be a waste facility. Of those who get Vg3 added as an alternative to learning time, it's all the way up to 50 pst. which fall from it. This can't be a solution we can move on with. To this end, the right-hand side of the school raises to its national meeting a proposal to wind up the Vg3 scheme as an alternative to apprenticeship and replace it with other models, such as: a two-year run with a combination of school and outsourcing, or perhaps there may be local alternatives. Will the Council of State seize this opportunity to see whether the government can support it in order to achieve a better solution for those who do not have an apprenticeship and perhaps have some pilot projects on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e265	It is precisely this that will be part of the discussion on the law-enforcement of the right to apprentice space — how to realise it. The representative Harberg is quite right that the supplemental year is the third year a student in high school can take. There's a lot of theoretical knowledge that needs to be taken back into account in relation to what you haven't had to teach while in the profession, and there's a lot of people who are ironing out. Then I see that some states have extended the right to secondary education for young people. Some young people are building up because they do not dare to lose the opportunity to gain study competence. I want to summarise the experiences of those states, because I think that more people can combine vocational training with study skills if the right to supplement is improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e272	Jon Georg Dale – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e275	When one hears the council answering the previous speakers, it reminds me of the old saying that self-crust should be on the right, because it comes from the heart. But the problem is that for all apprentices who don’t get apprenticeship space — all students in Norwegian school who don’t get apprenticeship space — the government doesn’t help much with their own efforts. The problem is that it is the public sector that is the worst when it comes to not accepting new apprentices. It is a simple problem that the Council of State could easily address, if it so wishes. Within e.g. Health professionals are one third of the pupils now without an apprenticeship. It is serious for those who are going to care for the elderly for years to come. So the question is whether the government council, like the Progress Party, will now go in to increase the apprenticeship rate, all the time it actually is that for very many municipalities, the pressured community economy is that they don't take in new apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e282	No, I don't think it's the pressured community economy that makes a lot of municipalities not taking in apprentices. I believe it is a scandal that some municipalities do not see their own best in ensuring that they recruit skilled labour for the future. When very many of those who want to take a course in health and social education do not get an apprenticeship in the municipalities, it is not because the municipalities lack money. It's because they don't think long enough in terms of how they're going to handle the care of the elderly in the future. Norway has the best apprenticeship grant scheme in the world, almost. We have $105,000 in grants per apprentice, plus 10 pst. application that can be used for tailoring around individual apprentices, if there are any special needs. It's a very good arrangement. I think some of the main problem we have with apprentices is that some employers don't see how much trouble they're going to have with recruiting professionals, whether they're in health care or in many other areas of society. This makes Norwegian working life very vulnerable, and a very important part of the struggle for more apprenticeships is to see that the employer himself has a self-interest in getting it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e289	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e292	I find it sad to hear that the social contract has been cancelled. Perhaps the Stortinget should have been informed of this, as we have believed that it is a work that is going on. But I understand the fear that is now in the business world that you're just going to end up with this being a burden, or a right to an apprenticeship, without following any structure, means or other thing to get this in place. Today, the Council of State has been incredibly good at getting an involvement, debt on the municipalities, on the business community and on others. But it's like three out of four apprenticeship places are actually in private, and it's the public that has a big job to do to get this done. Isn't it time to make some new demands on themselves, on the state, on the state council, on the labour tax, look at the apprenticeship allowance that the Progress Party is talking about, and look at apprentices with special needs – and come up with some structures? It's not just a good idea to come up with dedicated posts saying that people should do things better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e299	I don't need to owe anyone. We've taken a completely different approach to this than what's been done in very many years. I am extremely concerned that the status of the profession needs to be raised, that we are recruiting more young people to take a professional career, that business and also others understand how vital it is that we have skilled skilled workers in this country. I think an incredible number of people think that when we have a knowledge society, then basically people who have higher education and university education can do all the jobs. They can't! Norway can collapse if we do not get more skilled workers recruited. Then my starting point is that business itself must also see it. The social contract has not been cancelled, but I cannot do anything about the fact that the employers' organisations do not want to participate in this dialogue, because they are opposed to an investigation that I have ordered. We can't run a democracy in such a way that investigations are canceled because someone protests against it. I expect Dagrun Eriksen to agree with that. So I'm assuming we're going to get a full grip on this. Anyway, we have to work together on apprenticeship places for the next school year, because that's what's most urgent now. And we're lucky to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e306	Let's go to the next main question. We continue with Dagrun Eriksen, and it should not surprise the President if the question goes to the same Council of State as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e311	That's right. I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge a question. From the fall, the state deaf schools have been stopped. Today's students will be allowed to continue for a few more years, and then the schools will be fully closed. This decision has been made by the government before the Stortinget has been given the opportunity to process the grossing-up notification which shall contain the background material for this purpose. Therefore, a good person could have asked some questions about the process in this case. But what worries me the most is not how Stortinget is treated, but it's that the department doesn't seem to have understood how important this offer is to all these deaf students, and that they haven't realized what they're going to be offering to these students in the future. These students need — and they have the right — sign language education, and they need an environment where they can meet understanding and communicate well with peers and teachers. So now these schools have to be laid down. The bilingual learning environments have become a crisis centre for too many students. They've tried themselves in ordinary school, they've failed, they've used up their cancers there, and they've come to these state schools and got an opportunity not only to get an education, but also a place to be and belong to. When there is no offer in place, I am extremely concerned about these students who are then just going to exist in the ordinary school. It's a competence that needs to be built around every student. The number of deaf children varies, and the ability of a municipality to maintain competence in something as peculiar as sign language will be impossible. The deaf therefore ensure that we have a competence that is preserved in schools. There will be a great demonstration today both by students and parents who are puzzled by the situation that the government is now facing. So my question to the Council of State is, does the Council of State take the chance that these students she is now taking away this right to the schools, get a good enough offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e322	There is a clear need to both clean up misunderstandings and better inform about the situation of deaf people. I wish Dagrun Eriksen or other staging representatives did not give the impression that there are students who are to be deprived of their rights or get a worse offer. What's the challenge for the state deaf schools, of which there have been four pieces, is that the number of students in these schools is halved over a six-year period. There are 69 students in these schools now, and between 14 and 21 students per school. Therefore, it is a weather scenario in relation to the environments of competence of these schools to continue as at present. That is why the Midlyng Committee has proposed that we should complete the State Deaf Schools, but not that we should withdraw the offer to children and young people who have hearing problems, or reduce the sign language environment, which is crucial for these students. That is why we have proposed in the communication on treatment in Stortinget that we should maintain that deaf school with the longest traditions in Norway, that is, Møller school in Trondheim, that we should ensure that we have a strong sign language environment there, that we cooperate with the municipal deaf schools otherwise so that we ensure good offers for students – because there are many who want part-time offers. Then there's one problem again, and that's the discussion around Hunstad school in Bergen, where we haven't been able to find a solution. But I think that we in Bergen are also able to find a solution when we have done so in the other big cities in terms of the offer to the deaf students, and that we are going to get a good offer for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e333	I don't think the Council of State understands how important this offer is to these students. It is not the representatives of bigots who have started this debate, it is the students, and it is the parents themselves. A lot of students start in ordinary school, but they experience isolation when they start to get older, to get good communication with related students is difficult. Several research studies show that students are only included in ongoing conversations, they never start conversations, they don't talk about feelings, and they don't do these things that the education project is going to be in Norwegian school. We've got a letter from students from Lower Gausen School who are disappointed that the school will be laid down. They say they want a school where they're no longer going to stand alone in the spare minutes and watch others play. They say they're lonely at leisure, and they tell us about bullying and an isolation from peers at home school. This offer must be ensured. How will the Council of State prevent these students from being left to environments where they will again be isolated from normal communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e341	I would very much like Dagrun Eriksen not to give the impression that there are some people who do not understand that deaf students have special challenges. But it is actually that parents choose different solutions for deaf children today than they did before. In the past, deaf children were sent to boarding schools. They lived far from home for a long time. Now their parents want them to go to primary school, but have the opportunity to stay part-time, learn good sign language and have good environments. Then there may be some children or young people who in periods want to be full-time students at deaf schools. But the problem is that deciding that today's state deaf schools will continue as they are today is not an alternative, because they are slowly being built down. There's almost no students left. Now we have 14 students at high school in deaf school. This is going to slowly get confused. Therefore, it is important to have the state offer that we have in Trondheim, and to cooperate closely with the municipalities so that there are alternatives there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e348	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Laila Davøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e351	I think it is quite special that the Minister of Knowledge says that this is due to a kind of misunderstanding. There is no misunderstanding that these state schools have been adopted. There is no solution for maintaining competences in a similar way if the municipalities take over. The council itself was concerned that solutions had not been found in Bergen at Hunstad. What is also a reality is that neither the parents nor the children involved in this matter have been heard. There should be a demonstration today. I wish the Council of State could be there and listen. One of the four important principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is, in fact, the right of children to be heard. It is repeated in particular in Article 7 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities relating to Children with Disabilities. There is a lot here to suggest – I would say so strongly – that they have not actually been heard. That's what they say, and that's what their parents say. My question is: does not the Council of State think that the children affected should have their opinion, and that the government should actually turn around? Competence isn't... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e362	Of course, these children must be heard, and their parents must be heard. They are very active towards Stortinget, and they have certainly heard about it earlier in the department, because it has been known for a long time that the Midlyng Committee proposed to shut down the state deaf schools – not because they had a desire to dissolve a good environment, but because there were fewer and fewer students. When the number is halved over a six-year period, there will be very few students in many of these schools in the future. That is why we have gone out and said that we want to complete the full-time service at three of the four schools from 2013/2014, because there should be predictability for parents and students in relation to what they will be looking for in the future. So we're both going to make sure that we have an environment of competence, and we're going to make sure that we have one state deaf school where students can stay. In fact, none of the people involved in Bergen are so concerned that Hunstad school itself is going to be maintained, but they want, of course, to ensure an offer to deaf children in Bergen, and that's what we're going to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e369	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e372	Let me first say that the Progress Party does not support the closure of deaf schools. The closure of state deaf schools creates uncertainty and uncertainty for both pupils and their superiors. The setting-up of deaf schools may cause fear of a worse offer, as supported by reports from the National Audit Office, where it appears that municipalities in Norway are breaking the rights and laws of children with regard to special education every day. The Minister of Knowledge is fully aware of this. But yet she stands on her feet and wants to lay down the schools. My question is, what has happened in this matter so that you can't wait until there is an assessment of the quality of the municipal deaf schools before you put down the state schools? What does the Minister of Knowledge know that the municipalities will be able to replace the good offers of deaf schools for students?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e381	We have a number of good municipal offers to deaf children and young people today, and it is such that in the three state deaf schools that we propose to graduate, it is a good cooperation with the municipalities. That's the main challenge in Bergen. It's no wonder that children and young people and their parents, who have special challenges like hearing impaired people, want to preserve the environment they had. But to decide to continue the state deaf schools is not to preserve the environment they had, because it is slowly becoming confused, and when the number of students is halved over a six-year period, there is no alternative that we can only decide that they should be maintained with the number of students they have per day. Then we have to ensure that the skills we need in sign language are maintained. That's what it does in Trondheim. But we ensure that there are good quality alternatives in cooperation with the municipalities, which are responsible for all children – including hearing-impaired children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e386	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e389	This matter also appears to be a matter in which it is clearly more important to have systems cleaned up than to take account of the individual lives involved. There has been a very arrogant process until this big message, where those who are really affected, have not been brought up and have not been listened to. So I want the State Council to answer the Storting and explain how it can be made probable that breaking up professional environments today and lubricating them thinly beyond municipalities that are going to have some student in the future will contribute to a better offer for the students affected by the closure proposal that the government has now submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e394	What do we do when the number of children who are full-time students in deaf schools is halved over a six-year period, and parents choose that children go to community schools, but often stay in deaf schools to ensure competence and development of sign languages, etc.? Then we see the following scenario: that there is a development that can continue. That means that the 69 students who are currently attending State Deaf Schools will be fewer in the future. This means that it is not possible to maintain the environment of competence in those schools, as proposed, and that is why the Midlyng Committee has proposed to wind them up as state deaf schools. Then we have municipal deaf schools, which also receive children from other municipalities – other than their own. We have to make sure that there are good environments of competence. In addition, we need to ensure that we have a strong environment of competence in offering deaf children in Trondheim. We're going to make sure that it continues and strengthens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e401	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e405	Some of us fought for a long time for sign language to become an official language. That's why this isn't just about giving an offer to some students with a disability, but it's also about cultural carriers. The State Secretary of the Council said at a press conference to a group of parents at these schools that there is nothing special about these children. Well, there's something special about these kids. These children are also cultural bearers of the deaf language, and these sign language environments, which are so important to maintain, are also important cultural carriers for the sign language environments. So isn't the Council of State concerned that she is now undermining the decision made in this Chamber that the sign language should be an official language, and that we must have important cultural carriers for that language, and that we must have important competences for that language? Isn't that what she's undermining with this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e412	No, it's not. I fully agree with the representative of the Skei Grande that sign language is culture. Sign language is about maintaining competence and an environment. But the starting point of this case has been nothing but that we see that the state deaf schools we have today, not slowly, but quickly get fewer students. Therefore, these environments of competence are confused by the evolution we see and by the choices that parents have originally made. Then we have to make sure that we have one really strong sign language environment in the state, and that's what we've set up to be at A.C. Møller in Trondheim, who has had an offer for the deaf from 1825. Then we have to make sure that the children who have been to the other state deaf schools get an offer at municipal deaf schools, and so we have that clear everywhere else than in Bergen. I'm absolutely sure we can do it in Bergen as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e419	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e422	The Council of State could actually stay standing, because the Left is concerned that the Council of State parked a very important process last week. In this room, there have been repeated debates in all the school debates you've had, thinking that the teacher and the teacher's skills are most important. There's actually nothing as important in Norwegian school as having wise, good teachers who know their subjects, who are trained in their subjects, and who burn for their subjects. That is why the Left was very positive about the consultation note that the government sent out, where they want to make professional demands – at least start with some subjects – to the teachers. But then, after a process, the government decided that this was probably too expensive, this was too difficult, or this was too demanding for the government, even though they have been in power for quite many years. So my questions to the Council of State are: why does she park the most important thing we can do to get Norwegian school better, namely to demand teachers to be able to do the subjects they actually teach, and to have professional competence in them? Why don't you make big and bold goals for how the school can be mediated by that kind of competence? Why are there no legal requirements for this? This government likes to demand other things in the law. They like to legislate things that we've discussed many times here. Lawmaking, for example. a teaching aid without a skilled person. You also legislate other things that I shouldn't mention, because then the council is tipped off by the stick. You legislate things that you know aren't necessarily essential for your children's skills, but you choose to park the most important piece of equipment for your children's skills, that's smart teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e433	Then I can rejoice – brighten up in life – the representative Skei Grande that this proposal is not parked. We want skills requirements for teachers. The problem does not concern the newly recruited teachers, because there we have introduced skills requirements, but it concerns the teachers who are already working at school. And in the consultation round, we've got some counter-conceptions that it's important that we go through carefully. That's what we're doing now. That is why we did not promote this proposal before Easter so that the Storting should have the opportunity to deal with the other legislative changes in good time, but we will come back to this question. The proposal has received support from many teams, and it is important to be concerned that we gain a better formal competence among Norwegian teachers, but there has been considerable backlog from the KS, the National Association of Schools and private school organisations. Their main arguments are that this will be a very large piece of paper because it will not be possible to meet the requirements of competence they then want for those teachers who are currently employed in school, within a certain period of time. We think there have been counter-conceptions that there is reason to look a little bit closer, but we have not parked. We have simply not finished summing up the consultation round on this issue, and we will get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e440	It's interesting to hear the council argue. In the past, only the administration has explained why this has been exposed. It would be nice if the Council of State now set a deadline for when this is to be introduced into Norwegian school, and when the law comes. She would like to have the opportunity to answer me now. The second, which is perhaps the strangest argument, that was put forward by the administrative team in the department, is that this is going to lead to less recruitment of teachers. Rather, I think that setting greater demands and increasing the status of the teaching profession, to be the kind of knowledge intermediary in society, is actually going to lead to more people wanting to be teachers. So that argument I think the Council of State is going to park right away and reject it as valid at all, because it turns out that in all the countries where you make greater demands for it to be a teacher, it's easier to recruit teachers, and it's easier to get good teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e447	I can't find what Trine Skei Grande refers to about recruitment, but there may have been some of the counter-representations that have come from the hearing bodies. On a general basis, I would like to say that I agree with Trine Skei Grande that where you are clear about the kind of competence that teachers should have, you contribute to increasing the status of the teaching profession, and that in itself can make us recruit, at least in the long term, better. One of the challenges we face in Norwegian schoolwork, when the teacher is the most important person in school — and the students are important — is the interaction between students and teachers. Good teachers are the best success criteria for success, and it is of course an objective that the status, respect for the work of the teachers should be raised. And we've been able to succeed in that, because now we see that the reputation of teachers is on the way up, and the recruitment of teacher training has also been strongly strengthened in the last three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e454	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e457	The left has for a long time been concerned with empowerment for teachers, including the representative Trine Skei Grande. New figures show that there are a large number of applicants seeking further training. Last year the number of applicants was approx. 1800 to 2,500 places of study. This year there are 3,700 applicants for the same number of places of study. The left agrees with the Education Association that much more effort is needed in this area. Now I hear the Council of State says she'll do something to those who're already in school, that they're going to gain a higher level of competence. But will the Council of State extend the scheme, so that all teachers have a good, professional background?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e464	I think it's very interesting to see that the increase in the level of further education that we have has been so strong, and that's not least because we've changed the system with regard to the possibility of applying – the teachers can apply directly themselves. But what we're not sure about is whether all the municipalities that have teachers who have applied for will set up their share of what's going on. What we can at least say is, after we put that system in place, is that the teachers themselves are interested in continuing training, and we have also managed to achieve probably a better decentralised system, so that it is practically possible for the teachers to take advantage of it. These are adult people with families, and it's a little hard to travel far from the farm. It may also be that we are, for example, have better web-based solutions. What I'm most excited about at first is about the sum of the teachers who are applying, and the municipalities that are now doing their share here, making us fill the 2,500 places that we have. If we can get to that, it's very happy. And then we have an agreement with the parties that have decided the framework for this. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] Of course, they are summed up when we're done with that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e473	Since we don't operate in this room with characters in order and behavior, the president has to use the club to stress that speaking time is out. This can be avoided if speaking time is respected. Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e479	I'll do my best to get good order and behaviour, even if the president doesn't give it. All parties believe that the academic competence of teachers is crucial for the pupils' learning outcomes. The Progress Party supports the introduction of competence requirements for teachers, although municipalities and KS protest and are negative to such an implementation. However, skills requirements are already in place in other sectors, for example: in kindergarten, with the possibility of a derogation. This must also be possible in primary school during a transitional period. The most important thing must be to have legal qualifications for the teacher so that we can have clear, clear objectives in the long term. Continuing training and the competence of teachers are essential to the achievement of the requirements of teachers. What will the Minister of Knowledge do to meet what is mutually agreed, namely the teacher's professional competence, as crucial to the student's learning outcomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e488	I think I say it this way that I take with me the views that have emerged today on how to deal with the consultation proposal on competence requirements, and then I come back to the conclusion, because we have not yet concluded on this issue. If I stop now, I have some time to spare.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e495	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e498	Inge Wohnung used to say that there is not a teacher who is so good that he can learn away something he cannot. It's probably his claim, but now he's getting good support from the research. Research into teaching professionalism makes it clear that one of the skills a teacher needs to have in order to succeed is to be able to do his or her job. Yesterday, I heard the Council of State making a flaming and good contribution on how important it was to put in place the basic skills early in school, so that the students could succeed further. At the same time, in the new two-part teacher training, we actually have a training of teachers for the lowest stage in which they don't necessarily need to be so depressed. In the light of what has now emerged about teaching professionalism and the need to be able to do so, will the Council of State go through that training and see whether there should be greater requirements for deepening even in teacher training for the youngest years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e505	All the while, we have a so-called follow-up group that follows the implementation of the new teacher training, so that we do not have to face a situation where a reform takes place, lets it work for ten years, and then finds that it has significant weaknesses that require serious coal spills of what has already been done. We have to make sure that we adjust along the way, if necessary. So far, that discussion has not been raised with great – what to say – justification in connection with teacher training for 1–7. It has been reasonably agreed that the different emphasis on professional immersion from 1 to 7. and 5-10. has been correct. But we're going to follow that question further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e510	We're going to go on to the next main question, which seems to be today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e513	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. What's interesting about politics is to maim back and look at the budgetary procedures that are being carried out before Christmas every year, and see how reality unfolds the following year when beautiful political words are translated into concrete action. One of the concerns of the Progress Party is the situation of Home Affairs. There is no doubt that Home Security is an important and traditional bearer of defence capacity and will in Norwegian society, both in terms of local knowledge, in the performance of the defence tasks they actually have, and not least in assisting in civil tasks such as: rescue and search operations. The challenge of the Progress Party is that we receive feedback from HV personnel and orders that are concerned about the economic development of Home Security. They are sceptical about the possibility of achieving the objectives set, and in that case a general concern has to be expressed. In the magazine Norway's Defence No. 4 this year, the Inspector General of Homeland Protection, Major General Kristin Lund, comes with a series of disturbing realities about the development of Homeland Protection. This article includes, inter alia: the reduction of the targets for enhanced training in 2011 and 2012 due to the number of days sailing in the Reine class. Furthermore, the Home Security needs to postpone training of newly recruited personnel, resulting in a reduction of the operational structure by 2000 soldiers. Lund also clarifies that the targets for the current long-term will not be met by the end of 2011. It is also pointed out that there is an increasing imbalance between resource access and the tasks of Defence and Home Affairs. This means, in other words, that the operational capacity of Home Affairs continues to be a downward trend. With this as a hindrance, I want to ask the Council of State whether this is a desirable and political development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e526	The defence has undergone one of the most extensive conversion processes we have in the public sector. Of course, this also includes Home Affairs. As of today, we see that we have the prospect of achieving the goal of putting in place an intervention shelter in the same way that we have a goal of getting a good response defense in place at the end of this long term. It is quite right, as the representative points out, that this has been challenging both for the Defence and for the Home Office. In the current year, the budget for Home Affairs has been strengthened compared to last year. It's also the goal of the exercise level. Now we're just still writing April, but my ambition, as I also know that the defense share, is that we should be able to practice the area structure with 38 pst. in 2011. In 2010, this level was much lower. That was the result of misleading priorities. I'm not saying simple priorities, but I was misleading because the transition required tough priorities and other purposes were given higher priority. We have, as the representative points out, two ships in the Reine class, which are also equipped with a number of practice days. The number could have been higher, but the objective, of course, of reaching the level of practice and sailing days set for the current year is fundamental to the work on Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e533	It would be natural from my point of view, at least, to challenge the Council of State on the following: Does the Council of State believe that the Director-General of the Home Office's description is incorrect since here one only refers to what is the government's ambition, when the inspector-general goes out clearly in writing in a defence magazine and says that one is not going to achieve the objectives set for the Home Office? Is it then that the Inspector-General is yelling at the wolf, wolf, to get attention on the Home Security? Is it because she believes that there is a hostage situation between the government's ambition and her ability to deliver the product ordered within the framework given? Or is it simply that this is done because it is expected to increase the scope of the revised national budget? Once again, I want to hear what the Council of State's ambition is regarding the framework, and whether she believes that the inspector-general here is directly misinformed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e538	I have a good dialogue with both the Chief of Defense and the Director-General of Homeland Protection about the challenges of Homeland Protection. Of course, it is also a situation we are following continuously, and where a number of measures have also been taken by the Inspector-General to meet the objectives set for Home Affairs. As I mentioned, we have a goal of achieving a level of 38 pst practice. for the area structure. Of course, we're fully practicing the action forces. Then we also have a discussion, of course, about whether it is necessary to make other priorities economically in order to achieve these objectives, but at present the objectives set for 2011 are, firmly, based on the resources allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e545	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first Morten Höglund.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e549	A level of 38 pst practice. - Is the council satisfied with that? To many, it also seems to be a failure statement, and you're not very close to the level you should have been ideally looking at. Some suspect that they are gradually depriving the Home Office of the Army. Can the Council of State confirm that this is not the case? And what's the long-term goal, beyond 2011, in relation to the exercise level in Homeland Protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e554	No, I'm not satisfied with a rate of 38 pst. of the area structure. That's the background because we've also signaled that the goal of practicing 50 pst. should already be achieved in 2012. We were also not satisfied with an exercise of only 20 pst. Last year, but it came as a result of tough priorities. I can also confirm that we do not have plans to bring Home Protection under the Army, but when we investigate the situation of the country forces, we look at opportunities to ensure better coordination between army and home security, but without the goal of merging them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e561	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e564	Wherever we meet people in green, they give the same picture that HV's inspector-general gives, that is, the need to get more practice and training. My question is, why should we be more confident that HV will get the level of exercise you expect this year, when the very opposite has happened to all the other and previous years with the red-green government? The HV team has not yet been relocated and financed, to be returned to the budget this year. You don't even know what it costs. It's $40 million. Do you really want to delete this item? It costs 100 or 200 million. Do you really want to delete this item? The only sure thing we know is that all such extraordinary expenses that have to be covered within the budget are to be settled by cutting in exercises. Why should we be able this year to attach more trust to the statements of the Council of State here in the spontaneous questioning session, when the true opposite has occurred over the previous six years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e569	It is not difficult to understand that there is the possibility of exercising and training that is motivating for both home security personnel and other defence personnel. That's the background for the government working hard to ensure the goal of both practicing 38 pst. of the regional structure of the Home Office this year and to increase it to 50 pst. Next year. It has already been established that a transfer of the Chief Inspector-General of the Home Office with a staff to the Teringmoen shall not affect the operational budget of the Home Office. There was a confusion about it at the post that was just made, but I can assure you that it will not. Then, in turn, we're going to get back to what the cost of that move is. And the numbers that are mentioned -- not to mention the maximum amounts that are mentioned -- in no way have root in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e574	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e577	I want to grasp what the Minister of Defense has now said about the transfer of the Heimeversstaben to the Terningmoen, which Stortinget made countless attempts to clarify the costs of the adoption of this year's budget. I am pleased that the Council of State now guarantees the share of the exercise and believes that it is obliged to follow-up also through any budgetary changes, so that the fears expressed by the inspector-general do not become a reality. I would like to know when and in what way the Storting will be told what the bill for this move of the Home Guard staff to the Teringmoen will be. Is this not the time when we are four months inside the budget year when this is to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e584	If I remember correctly, it's said that this move should be completed by the end of 2012. That being said, we all want that process to be done as short as possible, but as good as possible. This also affects employees, and it is important that that process takes good care of the employees. So, of course, I want to come back to Stortinget with information about both costs and other aspects of this case as the clarification that this process provides, and then on the basis that this should have been completed at least by the end of 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e589	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e592	I think the Council of State now has to decide when this move is to be completed. In an answer to a written question from me just one week ago, it says that it is planned to carry out the transfer during 2011. At the same time, it is said that the cost picture is probably not finished until the end of August 2011. So the Council of State says, ‘Flying costs will be covered within the adopted budgetary framework without prejudice to operationally directed activity.’;» It's possible that only I don't understand, but I don't understand how it's practically possible to initiate a moving process that you don't know is worth 40 million. SEK or 140 million. kr and at the same time say that it is not going to affect the operational activity and exercises at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e602	The maximum amount of the transfer has been previously estimated at 75 million. kr – the maximum amount. Then many measures have been put in place to ensure that costs are reduced. It is a goal that the move should be carried out as soon as possible, and it is therefore also a wish on my part, if possible, to have this carried out this year. But it has to be done in a way that ensures that employees are properly cared for. Then I explained what has been said about what is in the utmost length of time, i.e. by the end of 2012. But the ambition is to achieve this in the course of the year. I explained the decision that I and the government have made about the move. Then we're going to come back with information about the costs as soon as we've clarified these, and they're not going to burden the operating budget for Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e610	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e626	Norwegian school has been closely followed in the seams since the millennium. International surveys, inter alia: the OECD and various domestic and foreign research projects have provided an increasingly new and deeper understanding of the factors that have a positive impact on learners’ outcomes. Forbearance is not such a factor. The absence of requirements for students is also not such a factor. In 2009, the Statistical Central Agency carried out a review of the last decade’s international studies of Norwegian school students’ knowledge and concluded that the students were underperforming because they met too low demands and were being helped too little to see their own problems. In its analysis, the SSB points out that the concept of ‘learning pressure’ was seriously addressed in the Norwegian debate in the context of the work on the first competence report. The introduction of the Knowledge Lift emphasises the importance of the need for teachers to provide adequate external training pressure. Although there are differences in learning pressures across classrooms and subjects, surveys show weak learning pressures in Norwegian schools. In Norway, for the first time in 2003 the PISA and TIMSS surveys provided comprehensive data on the development of the professional competence of Norwegian school students over time. In its analysis, the central statistical agency has also focused on the fact that the teachers’ feedback to the students is one-sidedly positive and relatively independent of the quality of the student’s work. In the opinion of the Right, there is particular reason for reflection when, in the Summary of the SSB, reference is made to the fact that, in some classrooms, the guidance of teachers is mainly related to emotional support and motivation, while the guidance of teachers in other classrooms is linked to professional instructions and comments. This is not reassuring, and in 2009 — three years after the launch of the Knowledge Promise — we had only to note that Norwegian school is not on target when it comes to assessing it. According to Right's view, we are not in 2011. The OECD must undoubtedly be one of the world's leading analytical environments for school quality development. Like the SSB, the OECD has now pointed to the critical point in Norwegian school in the context of the call for high-school messages. If students are to be stimulated to step up their efforts and to prevent non-response later in the course of education, it is important, according to the OECD, to strengthen the assessment culture of childhood. The Norwegian school is in the middle of the introduction of the Knowledge promise — a period of partial reorientation for all parties in the school community. But the alternative is not to do like the bend, to go outside; we have to tackle the challenges we're actually facing. The good school can't be built once and for all. To succeed in providing challenges for all students and an exciting school day, the school needs to be in continuous development. The school must be guided and given a content that pushes the students to the maximum, so that they can provide their very best. What's happening down at school has consequences for what's happening up at school. According to NIFU researcher Eifred Markussen, lack of previous school performance is a key explanation factor for pupils who are struggling in high school and who may be at risk of falling out of high school in the next round. As the Right interprets it, this is some of the background for the OECD to point to the need for enhanced assessment, clearer feedback and requirements for pupils at childhood — and that students here should have an introduction to what numerical characters mean. In 2009, the Municipality of Oslo applied for trials in ten selected primary schools with enhanced assessment with grades in the 7th grade, but then received a clear rejection by the then State Council of the Ministry of Knowledge. Following the OECD's recommendations, the Right-wing Board believes that Oslo and others who are applying should be given the opportunity to experiment. Meanwhile, the Municipality of Oslo will test a system where teachers supplement existing written assessment with oral characters. School bureau in Oslo, Torger Odegaard, justifies the introduction of new assessment practices such as: ‘Our aim is to provide students with an extra clear feedback in the most important fields of success in high school.’ Even after advice from the OECD, the government seems to continue the confrontation line with Oslo, and seems to be looking with light and light after a paragraph to hang its final rejection of the 7th-class character test. I'm sorry. Right? This happens despite the fact that the students themselves also want to grade in the last year of high school in order to make the transition to high school easier. In addition, students who have spoken to the Evening Post agree that it is easier to set goals and motivate themselves when you get grades. At the same time, high school students point out that grades are taken more seriously than a score, which they got when they went to high school. Paradoxically, the government's unwillingness to character seems to increase, while the Evening Post publishes a new poll in which the Norwegian people show a positive attitude towards the use of grades in primary school in the last year. A clear majority, six out of ten Nordics, believes the time is ripe to introduce characters into Norwegian, math and English into seventh grade. It's encouraging to know that we, who want to introduce grades at the seventh grade in primary school, have a majority of the population in their backs. Over 60 pst. supports the proposal that the 7th grade should be evaluated as precisely as possible in the three basic subjects of the year before they begin high school. There are a majority of grades in the 7th grade in all parties with the exception of the Minister of Knowledge Party and the Red Party. The resistance among teachers is somewhat disappointing, but I have noticed that more than every four teachers say yes to introducing grades in the seventh grade. To the right, the education authorities now believe that the advice from research teams should be listened to and take into account the implications of this in the notified secondary education report. But if the message comes on Friday, which we hear relating, maybe the dot is set and it's too late. Then Stortinget must do something about it. In order for there to be no doubt: the right will not replace today’s written assessment by grades. It's not about a either–or, it's about a boat–and, with a modest element of grades as a supplement. The left side, including in Norwegian policy, has for many decades considered it self-explanatory that grades in school hit the weakest students. But is that true? A recent Swedish survey may suggest the opposite, that children of highly educated parents do the best in a non-characteristic school, while the chances are getting worse for children from working families. This survey was based on Sweden in the 1970s and a longer period of different character schemes from municipality to municipality. Early-age characteristics caused girls from low-educated families to obtain on average some longer education. Also for sons from low-educated families, grades seem to have increased the likelihood of going to high school. When the grades disappeared, the proportion of children from low-educated families who did not progress to high school increased from 8 to 16 pst. for girls and from 7 to 10 pst. for boys. On the other hand, sons from highly educated families profited from the loss of their grades. The reason for these differences may, of course, be more, but the report may suggest that, in fact, children from low-income families do marginally better with grades than with no grades. It may not be so surprising, because it is not unreasonable to assume that children from non-privileged countries are served with clear knowledge goals and evaluation. However, when the objectives become unclear and the concrete evaluation disappears, children and young people with highly-educated parents will be able to receive guidance from home, something that children and young people from low-educated families will not be able to receive to the same extent. We need a school that challenges, demands and becomes even clearer in its feedback – for students. Governments themselves have stated this week in Political Quarter that it is important to improve the school assessment culture. The right, therefore, challenges the Minister of Knowledge to make changes to the intermediate assessment system, as proposed by the OECD, and to comply with the Oslo municipality’s application to test grades in the 7th grade.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e689	We'll be back in a short time to the youth report, which assumes that the motivation for primary school students is falling from the fifth stage, and never lower than the 10th stage. So there's nothing based on our attention around high school that would suggest that high school students are exceptionally motivated by the introduction of numerical characters in high school. Then the motivation had not been the lowest on the 10th step. In dealing with this communication and these issues, we have asked the OECD to assist us professionally and to look outside to point out what may be weaknesses in the Norwegian education system, which we may not see as clearly. It has been exciting, and there are broad competences and researchers with different national backgrounds involved. We have received many important and important views that we have taken with us, and their report is published with the first. One of the challenges we have been facing is the transitions in the education system as risk phases for students. The OECD points out that the transition to youth grades can be experienced as a matter of urgency for some pupils. It is a problem that many students start at a youth level without having a realistic understanding of the strength and weaknesses of their own competences. In such cases, grades can easily come as a surprise to students, and it may go beyond their motivation for further learning. The OECD recommends strengthening the assessment practices at childhood level, so that students have a good understanding of their own competences and what they should do to improve. Students need to know how they relate to what is expected of them, and their ability to assess themselves needs to be developed. The students need to know what to do to get better. The OECD does not recommend the introduction of numerical characters at the paediatric stage. However, they underline the importance of verbal, well-founded feedback at youth level — in addition to the characteristics — so that students are given explicit advice on what they can do to improve their performance. It is provided for in the Training Act that assessment is carried out without grades up to and including 7 in primary school. This means that according to Norwegian law, giving characters at the nursery is prohibited. The Soria Moria declaration is also firm. We want to keep the characters in our youth, and it's not relevant to introduce grades before this. I agree with the OECD in their description of the challenges related to the pupil assessment at childhood, especially in the middle. To strengthen students' learning, they must meet with clear professional expectations. I know that many students don't get enough information about where they are in relation to the professional objectives of the curriculum. If a student has met no significant cheerup over seven years in primary school, it can be quite a shock that you get the grade 2 and maybe lower than that, because you have a completely unrealistic image of your own competence. Therefore, it is essential that teachers provide professionally relevant feedback. It is important for the learning process and self-intelligence is important for the learning process. Students and supervisors are entitled to such feedback. All pupils — including pupils in childhood — shall be provided with a professional and motivating assessment in the form of clear descriptions of what they are mastering and what they must continue to do. The purpose of the assessment is for students to learn from feedback. A response through a number character tells the student where he stands on a scale from one to six. A number does not describe to the student what he or she masters in relation to the requirements of a curriculum. So giving a number character doesn't give the student information that is easy to work with, or help to figure out why you achieve what you're doing, or what is needed to improve your own knowledge base. What numbers characters can be used for is to rank the students in how to organize recordings where there is a fight for the places. And that's a reason why you have numbers at the end of high school: not all of the students get into the lines they want, and the number characters are kind of arranged the queue in many places. The same applies to further education. But introducing numerical characters at childhood will be a way of introducing a feedback system that has little information value and gives very little learning value to those involved. I therefore believe that there is no need for the use of grades in childhood, nor is there any professional coverage for the fact that this with numerical characters is a clear feedback for young students – not for older students either, because they need additional assessment of what they are actually going to do. It is well documented that the assessment of students is an area of little emphasis in Norwegian school. The goal of the promise of knowledge of more and better learning for all students requires a high level of ambition on behalf of the students and a good system for assessing the individual student. We have already taken action to strengthen assessment practices, as proposed by the OECD. The government has been working since 2007 to strengthen its assessment work in primary schools. The assessment requirement has been amended. The student’s right to assessment has been clarified and emphasis has been placed on the need for assessment to promote learning. A half-yearly assessment has been introduced, which includes a scheduled conversation between teacher and student at all stages of initial training — including at childhood. The Regulation specifies the professional level of the students to be assessed. If early efforts are to be realised, evaluation of the professional level of the students is a prerequisite for the implementation of relevant actions. Number characters are not helpful here. It is essential to identify as early as possible whether students need specific measures relating, for example, to: the development of basic skills. Monitoring samples have been developed specifically to identify students who may need such follow-up. Results from national tests provide information on the success of each school in developing the basic skills of its students. Both national tests and screening tests allow teachers and the school to see how their own students are compared to a national average. It doesn't make grades set by a teacher. The results of national tests and screening tests are also part of the discussions that teachers have with students and parents and give feedback on the professional situation. From the autumn of 2010, a four-year national assessment for learning has been launched. This is a follow-up to the project Better assessment practices, which was completed in 2009. The aim of this initiative is to further develop the teacher’s assessment practices by increasing the competence and understanding of assessment as a tool for further learning. Four principles of good teaching have been formulated and are also reflected in the assessment regulation. The principles are based on international research which shows that the students' prerequisites for learning are strengthened if the students: understand what they are going to learn, and what is expected of them is feedback that tells them about the quality of the work or the performance they have provided is given advice on how they can improve is involved in their own learning work, inter alia. to assess their own work and development; This is what is demanding feedback for the students. A numerical character does not respond to any of these challenges to smaller students, and it is too weak feedback and too unresponsive feedback. The teacher must continuously assess whether the training leads to the best possible learning for the students. The students themselves must have knowledge of their own skills and learning needs and must do what they themselves can to improve. With regard to the wishes of the Municipality of Oslo to test the grades at the nursery, it is not appropriate to approve such a test. As a general rule, attempts at measures that we regard as unlikely to be implemented as a permanent scheme are not accepted. I believe that there are good professional reasons for not introducing characters at the nursery, and that is why it is a little appropriate attempt. It gives too weak and too diffuse feedback to the students as to what they are going to do. I have registered that the City Council in Oslo is planning to introduce oral characters to the nuclear subjects at the 7th stage, but has so far not had the opportunity to get involved in the details of this proposal. I assume that the City Council of Oslo will follow the regulations of the Training Act, which stipulates that assessment should be given without grades up to the 7th year of primary school. It will be the county of Oslo that is responsible for ensuring that the Oslo Municipality scheme plans to establish is in line with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e744	I guess it wasn't that much that surprised me in the answer from the Council of State. I would rather say that it was very so predictable. But I do not agree with the Council of State's conclusion on what was below, that it could rather be the characters that made the high school students get to the degrees demotive. I think that the motivations are actually due to the cloudy share of special education and lack of mastery, students who have gone from 1st grade without getting the help they need, who really meet the wall in every subject when they get to the youth stage, because they don't have the basic skills in place when they leave the childhood. Nor have I ever seen any research, and fortunately no experiment has been done either, around a non-characteristic high school. Because I'm absolutely convinced that grades actually help students get better. Then I would like to say that in parts of the article to the Council of State, it could almost sound as if we were replacing today's written assessment with grades. I was very careful to stress that it should be as a supplement. The council was also concerned that the students should know where to stand professionally, i.e. what kind of professional level you have. It's not about ranking, but it's about a clear feedback that the student himself, and the parents might be able to relate more easily, along with comments. For everyone who's been around school, and I'm a teacher myself, know that it's not that easy to write these long comments -- you have to sit down and read and try to figure out where you're actually at one end of a scale. It's the combination of the character and the comment that should be the one that gives a better feedback to the students in sum. We look at Finland in so many areas. Here, too, there may be reason to look at Finland when you look at how they use the combination of numerical characters and written assessments. I do not know how the Council of State reads the OECD, but I have seen what the OECD has said, and I therefore note that the OECD calls for the students, before they come to the youth stage, to be introduced to and become familiar with how the grades and the character system actually work. If they really mean something by facilitating the transition and preparing the students as best they can at the youth stage, I'm absolutely convinced that even an element of grades in the last year would be a sensible thing to introduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e757	We're going to have ample opportunity to come back to the discussion about what motivates learning, because it's a major theme in the report on high school. There's a lot of good, interesting research that we can make better use of in just those questions. Getting clear feedback, getting demanding and realistic goals that can be achieved, but where you have to stretch a little, is part of a motivating way of working in school. But then it's most important to know what to do, how to work, how to know your own learning strategies, and how to get to them. Numbers of young children do not provide that kind of guidance. It's that simple. There is no professional coverage because it provides information that is interesting. I have reviewed some of the assessments that teachers have made, because it has been systematically worked on it, but we have a lot to go on still in relation to giving clear feedback and assessments. But I have to say I'm quite impressed by how teachers have given feedback to the students so that it becomes very clear to them what their strong and weak sides are, and it becomes affordable to set some new goals and achieve them. Then you work well as a teacher, because then you can also motivate yourself to go on. The final OECD report on this matter is not yet completed. We have been in dialogue with the OECD throughout the Youth Level Communication process, and there is no recommendation to introduce grades in high school in the report provided by the OECD to us. I'm amazed that the contribution of the Right in a lot of contexts is essentially how external factors can help motivate. I think some of the most important things about motivation in high school, and we get back to it, are apprentices and apprentices. When Elisabeth Aspaker yesterday, on the radio, arranges for six-year-olds to give teachers a number character to improve, I am surprised that in 2011, people believe that there is a constructive way to work in Norwegian school. I am surprised that the big issue for the Right – now I have read through a couple of programs to be dealt with the next weekend at the Right National Meeting – is to introduce figures for 10-year-olds. The only thing the Right has to contribute to the discussion about education — with finding and hugging — is how to manage to get more external motivations, rather than the inner motivation in school. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] I'm absolutely sure internal motivation provides much better learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e766	The President asks the Council of State to respect the speaking time allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e769	The core of the question raised by the representative Aspaker is the principle of disagreement between the parties represented on the Stortinget: shall one have grades at the nursery, or shall one not? We have recorded that the school bureau of Oedegaard in Oslo is very concerned about implementing experimental schemes with grades in the 7th grade in individual primary schools. The student organisation, the Education Association and the Norwegian School Leaders Association have clearly warned against this. In addition, the Parent Committee for Initial Training is very sceptical. At the same time, we know that the Education Directorate rejected the application from the Municipality of Oslo three years ago. Nevertheless, the council has said that he intends to carry out his experiments, then by breaking the training law. So the City Council is planning the law to be broken by the Oslo School teachers. This is a school experiment. The right-wing bureau in Oslo clearly shows that this is an ideological project when he wants to go to the step of bypassing rules in order to give oral characters in the seventh stage. Oral grades don't give students any solid evidence of where they stand, and can't be used to follow the student over time. Since it is oral, this is something that the student cannot take with him in the youth stage, while written feedback can and should follow the student further on the steps above. It has not been long since the Stortinget dealt with the Biggest Message Time for learning, about the time spent by the teachers. Time use is an area for which Aspaker has been very committed, and in a number of headlines and posts across the country it has been called for to be reduced. But now there's a new time thief who thinks the Right should enter school – oral grades at the 7th stage. Assessment is something that takes time today, and will take time. By instructing teachers at the nursery to give oral grades, you give a whole new task to teachers who have not previously given grades. It is fully possible to give feedback, in writing and orally, without saying a character. We know that the parents and students themselves are asking for feedback and assessment, and that this is something we have and must focus on in the future. It is important that teachers give clear feedback about where the students are and what they need to do to get better. We need a feedback culture in Norwegian school. I'm traveling around a number of schools all over the country, and there's no requirement either from teachers or students about grades at the nursery. But the message from Norwegian school is and has been that we have to do something about the transitions for many years. Now the OECD also confirms this. Then it's strange that the Right turns up its usual solution to introduce grades. The OECD notes that the transition between childhood and youth is too poor today, but they say nothing about grades being the solution. We believe that one can do a number of things that deal with preparing for the youth stage without having to give an oral character. No international survey shows that countries with lower grades do better than countries with no grades. One can have a good school with good transitions and score well on international studies. It's not new that the Right is for grades at the pediatric stage. They will also introduce characters for 10-year-olds – not oral characters, as proposed by the Municipality of Oslo, but written characters. Now the Right OECD's arguments are used for a better transition between the steps in the character debate. Characters are so important to the Right that they say it's okay with oral grades, that's a character that's not a solid proof for the student, and can't be used by early school teachers to know where the student is. The right-hand project with grades in Oslo is mostly about just getting the grades and at least about creating a good culture for feedback in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e786	The Council of State points out that the historic struggle against characters continues. It had so many of us expected. The problem is that when the Council of State has the floor today, it only looks at one part of the issue facing the Norwegian school. This is a character debate – well and good, but it must also be possible for the government to have two thoughts in its head at the same time. The Council of State claims that when the 10th grade is the most worn out in Norwegian school, it should suggest that the grades are not helpful. However, in order to address the issue, the latest PISA study says, for example: 25 pst. of the 5th grade students – and there are about the same numbers from 5th to 10th grade, but better numbers afterwards – that schoolwork often or never gives them the attractive challenge. Of course, it is linked to the possibility of evaluation. It's not useful to take one thing out of your health and just consider it. I think we can be a couple of people about that. Nevertheless, it is that characters are important to many. When the Council of State argues that rapid transitions between the different levels of education hinder further good learning for students, that is an argument for starting to evaluate more clearly, even in the direction of the earlier ages of important subjects. It is in spite of all the debates about facilitating transition in some important subjects for students, making them accustomed to a system that they encounter too fully in 8th grade – that is what this debate is all about. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre may try to make this an ideological struggle for or against grades, but this is an attempt to improve the transitions between the different levels of education. When it comes to many elephants saying that they want to welcome more characters, even in the previous phase, and when many Norwegian parents say the same, it is alarming that the Council of State does not even open up to a trial scheme where one sees whether this has a proven effect. It's ideological struggle, it's when you actually don't even want to see what's going on, and do local test projects at some schools or in some municipalities to see if you can improve your Norwegian school by changing the model. In this case, the opposition is not running an ideological battle, it is the government that does. Then you can ask yourself, ‘Why is it that the local freedom of action to develop a good school in this case does not apply? And then there's an argument that Right put forward in its first post that I think there's a good reason to stop a little bit, and that the Council of State is very generous enough to jump over, namely the inquiry from Sweden that clearly shows that characters of former age can have a socially smoothing effect – socially smoothing effect. One raises the weakest student groups by introducing a previous rating. So far, there has been no problem either by the Council of State or by the Labour Party. But what I'm asking a big question about is why a smooth jumps over such an investigation. If the Council of State actually wants to develop a good school, it has to open up to a trial project, such as a test project. searching for in Oslo. It should not be the case that Norwegian municipalities have to try to circumvent the legislation in order to develop a school that parents want, as students want, and which one country sees as having a positive impact on learning. Therefore, I hope that the ideological struggle against characters in the long term will also end in the government party. I mean the right way to go is to start a gradual introduction of characters in earlier age than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e803	The advice on clear feedback for school students is very clear. I also perceive that the Council of State in its inception has that as a prerequisite. Then it shaves relatively fast. It is strange that after the representative and interpellant Aspaker clarified in their statement that there is no question of either – or, but both – and, the Council of State uses a large part of its contribution to explain why a purely numerical character does not tell so much. Ideology is obviously hard on, which has just been commented on from here. I would also like to strongly recommend that the Council of State participate in the study from Sweden, which clearly shows – not just a little, but clearly – that it had a socially equalising effect of having grades in school. What we're talking about is how best to motivate or stimulate learning. For me, I'm so lucky that I have kids at the exact age we're talking about, and that's the best reference you can have. I will also take some personal examples in this article. We have just gone through a Easter, and then I have to say that it turned out to me that if we are not trying to introduce the element of competition between students in school, there is still something fundamental there. Because we've shared Easter eggs, we've played games, and we've had quiz, and there's something that's created quarrels during Easter, there's results and the question of who was the best. It lies at the bottom of the students and motivates – at least in the quiz rounds – for great effort. I think it can work in school too. I have two twins who are eleven years old, and I get feedback from school – two girls who are born at the same time, but who develop very differently. The reports from the school are so identical that I had to ask the teachers if they had made a mistake. They are not equally deleted in school work, they are not equally erased in abilities and properties. I know through my follow-up of them, although it gets too bad because I'm so much here, that they're struggling with different things and are at different levels. But the school feedback tells me there are two identical girls. They don't tell anything about where they are relative to each other, they don't tell anything about how they are relative to the others. Yes, even a special investigation because it might seem that they read a little late, ended up with the same description – completely identical description. The results show something completely different. A character in addition to the report would tell something about where they were in the different subjects. One says, and that's the way she is: oh, I can't do it, all the others take it so much easier and so much better. Yeah, are they now? She thinks it, because she feels she wears a lot more, but it's not erased for sure. A party colleague in the big group told me right here one day that the daughter had entered that part of the school where it was character system. This girl had struggled with reading and came cheering home when the first characters came into place, for she discovered that there was so much else she was good at. She was actually better than many of the others in the class in other subjects. Rejoicing and mastering, the council of state talked about. Yes, feedback is a source of joy and mastery in the school situation. I think it's strange – as many people have said here – that there's no willingness to try out a system where you can also prepare for a number system that tells you something about level. Then I just have to finally inform the Council of State that she has obviously not read the Right Papers after the national meeting, when she says that the only thing she finds there is something about the numbering characters for 10-year-olds, because it's not in the papers for the national meeting. But there is an amazing amount of good -- about a willingness to bet, a commitment to the teacher, a commitment to adjusting the systems that allows more students to get through the school run in a good way. What we are talking about today is one of the measures that can help, and that the Council of States should be involved in trying.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e818	The number character debate can be taken as an ideological debate, preferably as a New Public Management variant. Then one position is that there are numbers that count. A little count that doesn't count, that can't be numerically attached. Text is chat; numbers are facts, at least so-called 'clear feedback', as the interpellant calls it. Another position in this debate is that figures in many ways are pointless and, in some cases, meaningful – not least as a contribution to pointing forward, to inspiring and improving learning work. The number character debate can also be taken as part of a broad assessment debate, or at any rate, I now think, as part of the great learning debate. I am choosing the last approach, and then the general issue in the debate here today is: how should we develop further, process further and, not least, make it more effective – see. what we have learned from the Time Usage Committee – the assessment work that is already taking place in our different educational arenas? I want to be a clear voice for assessments of – let's call it – the state of things as part of a learning and development work. This concerns the assessment of individual life, the teacher, the learning environment, the school owner, the school director and, for that matter, the KUF Committee, not as an objective in itself, but because good judgment helps to improve the seas of the driver. In this case, we talk first and foremost about students who are going to be better at learning. It is professionally difficult to obtain such an assessment work, not least because it should be two-way – there should be a recording of a conversation and a reaction. In this case, the teacher comes with a recording. Students, parents and superiors too, should be able to respond to it, and then there is a creative, good process that one achieves to a very small extent through numerical characters. Obviously, numbers are fascinating to all who are happy in competition, and to all who love simple rankings. For them, number and letter characters are a dream, and it's such a dream realization we now see that the Right is so committed to. Think of the simple world if we could assess the quality and rank hospitals, students, wines, books, employees, nuclear accidents, care for the elderly, etc. in this way. There's a fashion in society today that we're going to go more and more in that direction. I don't believe if the point is that it should point forward, that it should improve processes. Elisabeth Aspaker wants numbers, because that way you get as precise an assessment as possible. No, that's exactly what the problem is: this is not exactly at all. That's what teachers tell us, and it doesn't even tell us. Elisabeth Aspaker says it's important to get a number character to know where to stand. No, you don't get to know where you stand with figures. This is primarily obtained through the written and oral assessment and not least the conversation that this will trigger. Elisabeth Aspaker says we need numbers, because it's not that easy to write comments. No, it is not easy, it is professionally difficult, but it must also be professionally difficult, because this is a complicated situation in which both how one stands is knowledgeable and, not least, how one should improve. The fact that it's not easy to write comments is used as an argument for numerical characters, makes me even more convinced of how dangerous it is to start with numerical characters in the way that the right here suggests. I got an excellent example of it, I think, from a teacher that I talked to yesterday, who told me that he had done it as it is now provided that you should do in high school, i.e. give a good written and oral feedback, in this case combined with grades. The teacher was proud, he had done a good homework. He met his class, presented what he had prepared, and the only reaction he got back from a student after a student was: well, it's okay with this talk, it's okay with everything that's written and said, but the number character, then – where am I actually standing? This teacher clearly told me that this was a very disturbing element in the conversation he invited into the class, because the students were very focused on this number, and the number was the smallest part of the assessment work that the teacher had prepared and taken the initiative to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e842	Assessment, as the interpellant points out, is an important element in promoting learning and improving Norwegian school. Therefore, a discussion of what to assess, how to assess and why to assess is important. This is not a discussion about not assessing, as I got the impression from the representative of Dale's post. The most important thing about assessment is just to promote learning. It has been demonstrated that Norwegian school needs to further develop its assessment practices and culture. The assessment must have objectives and meaning and be conscious. I have not seen the recordings from the OECD to which the representative Aspaker refers – they are not public either, as far as I know – but I have understood that the OECD recordings have made have pointed out more awareness of assessment. However, not enough: Norway is one of 24 countries participating in an OECD project to describe, evaluate and evaluate the framework for a better school. In January, the Education Directorate presented its country report to be used in the OECD review of how evaluation and assessment systems can improve quality, equivalency and effectiveness of initial training. Individual assessment is part of this review, to be completed in 2012. The Project Assessment for Learning was launched in autumn 2010. In total, then, there is already a thorough effort to identify an assessment culture that contributes to the promotion of the objectives that you wish to achieve, in cooperation with the OECD. That's basically exactly what the representative Aspaker is asking for in his interpellation? I believe that the investigation that the OECD will do in cooperation with the education authorities will be a valuable input into how we can improve our assessment culture. Number characters have no meaning in themselves. It is the assessment itself that is important and that it is given correctly and in a good way that contributes to the promotion of learning. There we have enough work to do to improve school practice, cf. the post of the representative Harberg. Increased focus on the importance of assessment in Norwegian school helps to change awareness, understanding and hopefully practice gradually. In-flight assessments at primary and secondary level are important, but this assessment must contribute to the development of professional progress and not contribute to further time constraints for the teacher. Even today, students will be told what the objectives of training are, both the skills objectives of the curricula and the learning objectives developed at each school. They're going to know what's being put into teaching, and they're going to evaluate their competence in science, order and behavior. They will get information about what they need to master in order to get better at the subject, and get half-yearly evaluation without grades where the teacher describes the student's competence in the subjects and provides guidance on how to improve their competence – plus, plus. These points are taken from the Directorate-General for Education’s Guidance for Assessment, which was made after the Red-Green Government changed the regulation to Chapter 3 of the Training Act. On the Committee's visit to Paris this spring, we were also told by the OECD representative that there was not one way that was 'the right' to make our school better. We were encouraged to work with our people in the OECD – as the project I initially referred to – and to research on national data and find out what works. I believe this shows that action has already been taken to strengthen the assessment of childhood. There is even more to it than the representative has used in his interpellation. The centre party is concerned that we get a good and systematic assessment culture that promotes learning, without burdening teachers more than today. I expect that the final report from OECD cooperation will provide further valuable input for the further development of a good assessment culture in Norwegian school, because we need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e872	I want to start with a story from a lady I've met in Sweden. She has a high university education and a leadership position, but lives in an area in Sweden with many immigrant children and is a sea immigrant. She felt that when her boy went to Swedish school, she got all the time, at all the parents' meetings, feedback that he was the best in the class. He was the best in class, he was the best of all. She found really no reason to follow up her son very much more, for she kept getting feedback that he was the nicest in the class. Stockholm is even more segregated than Oslo is, and has even stronger clean immigrant schools than Oslo actually has, sail if it doesn't always look like that in the papers. When the student was about to start getting grades, the mother noticed that he lay so on that he almost broke in all the subjects. She was hysterical, calling the school and getting a message: but he is still the best in the class. It tells me something about feedback not to be given properly, they should also be given not only in relation to those you are with, but also in relation to a national standard on what is good and bad. The left has no bell belief that one way or the other of feedback is the absolute best. We're very open to trying different things, and you can also find differences between schools in the way you give feedback. But you have to give feedback that's honest. And you have to give feedback that also says something about a national standard, not just that you're the best in class. I can finish the story of the boy's school: Mora really threw herself into the student's last two years at high school, which made him go out with quite good grades. But she wanted that effort, not in the last two years, but in an entire school run. I think there are many challenges related to assessment. It's both having some national standards that make you get proper feedback, and it's about providing some standards that are minimally bureaucratic, so that we find ways to give feedback that doesn't make the whole everyday life of teachers look like bureaucratic control mechanisms. So I think, as the central party representative in this debate, that someone on the right-hand side is a bit provoked by an SV that makes it sound like setting demands is not fair. I believe that not setting a claim is unfair. Putting no requirements means you don't respect anyone. Not to expect anything from anyone means not to respect anyone. Giving proper feedback is about how you're going to grow as a human being, and how you're going to evolve. When I was a teacher, my students got to put grades on me. They didn't just set one character, of course. They put grades on how well prepared I was, how much variation I had in teaching -- all the different factors. I think they got to characterize eight different factors on how well a teacher should be prepared. It was a very useful response for me – a response that I got from everyone, and not just from the troubled students, who always say what they think about the teacher, but perhaps the silent ones at the back of the window were also allowed to say what they thought about the teacher's teaching. What was also useful to learn from this is that it's never so that everyone is satisfied, but they can be satisfied with parts of the job you're doing. The left is very much because we try more trials in Norwegian school, but I have one message to the Council of State: be much more liberal in trying, but much more demanding in evaluating. We've done a lot of tests in Norwegian school that haven't been evaluated. There's a difference between trying to do something and trying something out. It seems like there's been a lot of testing of things in Norwegian school now, but you haven't really evaluated what you've tried out. It seems to me like you, for example. have had tests on how the school is going to be if we shut out new Norwegian, but have not really evaluated what the content of the so-called trials has been. So be liberal on the trials, and be demanding on the evaluations. Making feedback as bureaucratic as possible, but making it both based on a national standard and requirements for each individual student, in order to make demands means respecting us as human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e887	This developed well into a character debate in reasonable traditional tracks. But I've been trying to listen. I have heard that the red-greens who have been up here will not have grades as a supplement, but I have not heard how in that case they themselves will help to make today's assessment culture stronger and clearer. The representative Anna Ljunggren made it a point that characterizing should steal time from the students. That's what we're going to get more time for. We want teachers to spend more time evaluating students, providing feedback and professionally providing them with the input they need to motivate them and to ensure that they set new goals and reach out to increase the knowledge they need to move forward. The councils have made it a habit to render the Right proposal strongly signified and strongly caricatured, but I think that in the long run will only fall back on her herself. It's incalculable, it's unaccountable, and that's also how it sounds many times when the council argues. Number characters for young children, the council says here as an example. I remember that what we're talking about is students between 11 and 12 and 13 years of age. That's not exactly what we're dealing with toddlers. We have a significant potential for improvement in Norwegian school in terms of evaluation culture. We can look at the experience from other countries. I mentioned Sweden as an example, and I mentioned Finland as an example. We need a lot of factors that can help motivate students. Either that's the scores the students run and compare with, which is today's kind of feedback at the nursery, or if there's a character at the top steps, I think I can actually go out on one. So I want to say that I think there's a logical flaw in the red-green argument, because if the characters are really so meaningless, that they work so badly when you get to the juvenile, you should take the consequences of it and actually suggest the non-characteristic school introduced. But you don't, so it has to mean that you actually think that the characters have a function. Then the council should say yes and not no to Oslo, but follow it up. I also remember that the attempt that was applied for from Oslo three years ago actually had full uproar from the schools that were involved at that time, including the teachers. It is not useful to present it as if the teachers were not in that application and supported it. Last of all, I just want to say that Anna Ljunggren doesn't have to worry that the Right in secret should introduce the characters of the pediatrician. We're going to do that in full transparency on the day we get into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e904	I think maybe some of the debate has been marked by hearing what you want to hear in other people's posts. None of the red-greens in this discussion have said that evaluation is not important. We have had a special effort in terms of evaluation. In 2010, we launched a four-year initiative on Appraisal for Learning — a follow-up to the Better Assessment Practice project, which ended in 2009 — because Norwegian school has had a weak assessment practice. A weak assessment practice means getting diffuse and fuzzy feedback, and students don't know what to do to master better. And it's also depressing. One of the reasons we know is that you get some challenges that make you have to stretch a little bit more, whether it's students who are struggling with different subjects and problems at school, or it's students who are solving them at zero point nothing. Everyone needs that kind of challenge. The main discussion in this character debate is not about whether or not to introduce grades in order to provide students with clear feedback, but it is about grades giving unexplained feedback and too little notice, and to some extent no message for many students about what to actually work with to get ahead. We know from research what makes it possible to learn more and develop further: understanding what is expected to give feedback on the quality of what you are doing to get clear advice on how to improve your ability to assess your own efforts and development This we know is what it takes to grow. Having a numerical character in secondary school is not necessarily about giving feedback in order to improve, it is about arranging the line for secondary education, because many want a character-based admission to higher education. Then there are some claims in the debate. Clearly, when Svein Harberg has twins, he can compare how two kids get feedback. But with such a poor assessment culture, it is equally likely that the twins had the same three or the same four or the same five, because the assessment culture is basically poor, and thus it provides poor information. This also means that neither life, nor working life, nor learning life is a quiz. We need more insight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e932	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e948	There has been a lot of discussion about the working environment for the time being. This is partly due to some disclosures in the media, but it is also due to a different situation in the Norwegian labour market over the last 10–15 years, or at least a slightly new situation. It is quite obvious that when we have an EEA agreement that gives free flow of both capital and labour, it also affects the Norwegian labour market. This means, on the positive side, that there are a lot of people coming to Norway who can get work in Norway, which can then help to raise the economy even in their home country, create a safer life for their family, and it helps to strengthen the Norwegian economy, not least when it's uptime. It thus helps to balance the economic situation in our own labour market. The other side of the issue, which is a challenge, is, of course, that there are also people who come to Norway to work that have different pay standards, different pay conditions and also a different culture in the world of work than what you have in Norway. This may also contribute to the debate on the working environment. Now it's important not to generalise that debate, because there's a lot of different people coming to Norway. There's a big difference, for example. a carpenter who comes from Poland, who comes to Norway to work for longer periods, and a Swedish nurse who comes to work intensively for shorter periods. But all of this is in many ways a wealth problem: people come to Norway because we need people, but also because this is money to earn. So it gives some benefits, as I've said, but also some challenges. There is a broad consensus in Norway that we should have a minimum standard of employment. I'll actually call it a minimum standard of propriety in the workplace. We've seen in the last year a number of revelations from the most grotesque and rough things that I won't hesitate to call pure mafia business, for example. in parts of the cleaning industry. Employees, in particular those with foreign origin, have been exploited in the most serious way, neither having been paid if they have been paid at all, have worked hours and times that have been totally unacceptable and that have been out of all control and beyond all the standards and rules that are to apply in Norway. We've also seen other crimes that have been more systematic, but perhaps not so serious. These are the crimes we have seen, among other things. in nursing homes here in the city, but also in nursing homes in other municipalities. One of the things that the Labour Inspectorate is careful to clarify is that, for example: the use of overtime and the breaches of the law regarding the use of overtime, there is no systematic difference between the private and the public. The biggest difference is that where politicians, who have a clear responsibility, can cancel contracts, almost in the day, with the private ones, of course, there is no such possibility with the public. But in this situation, it is essential that we enforce the legislation we actually have. Then there are some nuances in how this legislation is to be set up. But there is no disagreement about having a solid minimum standard and a solid ground plan in the Norwegian labour market. In order to enforce the legislation and to detect offences and breaches of the rules, the Labour Inspectorate is absolutely essential. The Labour Inspectorate shall identify, but shall also contribute to the clean-up of working life, they shall contribute to the prevention of working life, and shall contribute to the penalisation of unacceptable situations if necessary, to the punishment or to the amendment of the directive. There are, as the Right sees it, three – at least three – challenges to the work of the Labour Inspectorate today. The first one is about time use. In the government budget for the current year, the government writes: ‘Risk’ — i.e. the risk of social dumping — ‘appears to be high in the evening, night and early morning work’. Over the course of a year, the Labour Inspectorate has carried out a number of inspections — thousands of them — but there is reason to believe that they do not carry out inspections to a large extent when the most serious breaches of the Work Environment Act actually occur, and it may be particularly serious in some of the industries that have cowboy-like conditions in parts of the unprofessional sector, such as us. have seen examples from the cleaning industry. The right has proposed further sharpening of the Labour Inspectorate to establish what the tabloids called a "washing police" in the fight against social dumping. We never used that word, but it still says something essential. It says something about the fact that the Labour Inspectorate could need extra resources in order to be able to get into industries that are known to have serious breaches of the Labour Environment Act, during the periods when these breaches take place. It is therefore not in normal working hours – it is often in the evening, at night or early in the morning. The second question is whether the Labour Inspectorate has sufficient budgets. As mentioned in the interpellation text, the NRK stated on 24 February 2011 that the Labour Inspectorate had already received tips on illegalities at a nursing home in Oslo in November, but did nothing. Then there are two possible explanations, one that the Labour Inspectorate did not consider it important enough to be able to intervene. It is quite alarming if the Labour Inspectorate has been informed that there is likely or at least reason to suspect that there is a breach of the Work Environment Act in establishments, but does not see it appropriate to intervene. The second explanation is that the Labour Inspectorate lacks resources to intervene. It is striking if it is the case that the protection of the work environment law applies only at the moment that the media reveals a matter, and not when the Labour Inspectorate himself receives tips on it. In recent years, labour supervision has increased budgets, but it should also be lacking, taking into account the changing situation in the labour market. The question is whether the resource increase has been large enough. It is also worth noting that in the budget for the current year the increase for the Labour Inspectorate is small, in fact so small that it barely covers the price increase. The third problem is that the Labour Inspectorate has many objectives – very many objectives. During this period, there have been six main objectives for the work of the Labour Inspectorate, ranging from prevention of damage and information activities to this active outreach activity, focusing in particular on industries such as the construction industry and the cleaning industry. The right-hand question is whether we are focusing enough on the work of the Labour Inspectorate, whether we are lubricating too thinly, whether the resources are being distributed on too many targets, and that we are not able to capture the breaches of the Work Environment Act that we should capture. In the opinion of the Court of Justice, it is perhaps most important to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate has sufficient resources, skills and also enough overtime to address the most serious and serious breaches of the Labour Environment Act — those approaching Mafia activities, those who are under any criticism of working conditions and the working environment, and those who are completely alienated from what we believe to be a good working life in Norway. I look forward to a constructive debate and thank you for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e981	Initially, the Labour Inspectorate supervises all activities in the country-based part of Norwegian working life. It concerns private and public enterprises, enterprises in different industries, enterprises of different sizes — and not least with very different employment conditions. In this context, of course, supervision must target its resources in order to carry out its tasks in the best possible way. Recent disclosures in the media and other events related specifically to working time problems show that proper supervision is very important. It is essential that the Labour Inspectorate has relevant and effective tools in its work. In the big-time communication on employment, the working environment and safety that I am going to present to the Storting in a short time, I will discuss various ways of strengthening the sanctions of the Labour Inspectorate. It is important that supervision can intervene with effective penalties where necessary. In addition, I am very concerned that the supervision is always well enough set up as a resource. The approach of the Labour Inspectorate needs to be adapted to the situation in different industries and types of activity. The most efficient use of resources means that supervisory action must be targeted at areas where the risk of accidents, injuries or disease is greatest and supervision is therefore risk-based. In recent times, a number of illegalities related to the manning industry have also been detected. Therefore, labour supervision is now a priority for the supervision of manning enterprises and for the hiring of labour. The Labour Inspectorate uses both his or her own knowledge of the working environment as a basis for his or her risk assessment. The ETA manages a number of different registers with an overview of injury, death and disease in the workplace, which provide a basis for prioritisation of supervisory activities, together with supervisory experience. Research-based knowledge is also an important complement in this context. The choice of themes in supervisory activities then forms the starting point for which industries are given priority. The selection of supervised establishments is made locally based on local knowledge. Tips from the public are also considered for follow-up and are a factor in the selection of supervisory activities. There has been a debate on whether the Labour Inspectorate should have notified or unannounced supervision in the wake of several breaches of the Work Environment Act, especially in the health sector and employment agencies. In my view, this is not a either-or-question, it is a matter of finding a proper balance. The main objective of supervision is to contribute to a lasting improvement in the working environment, not to take as much as possible ‘on the peach’ to break the Working Environment Act. Experience has shown that the most efficient use is usually made of resources once supervision has been notified. In this way, the supervision of the information and documentation they need — and an alert often leads to the establishment starting activities that are positive for the working environment and for the employees, already before supervision. Unannounced supervision is used when the establishment considers it necessary to detect conditions that would otherwise not have been detected, on suspicion that there is a risk to life and health, and where there is otherwise a need to move quickly into an establishment or industry. The Labour Inspectorate carries out approx. 15 000 inspections per year. The extent of supervision will vary. The ETA conducts both inspections focusing on a limited number of themes and extensive audit-like inspections, with many themes being addressed at the same time. This will often be in large, complex enterprises. In the health sector, there has been little use of unannounced supervision, but, as you know, in a meeting with the Labour Inspectorate on 8 March, it was agreed that this is an instrument that should be used more frequently here. The representative, Røe Isaksen, claims that there is a problem that inspections are carried out to a large extent during normal working hours, especially in industries where much of the work is done at night. To that I would like to point out that there are no restrictions as to the time at which the Labour Inspectorate will carry out its inspections. The starting point is that the Labour Inspectorate carries out its inspections at the time of work and it is possible to take the employees. The fact that work is carried out in general and mainly during daytime means that the Labour Inspectorate usually carries out his inspections during normal working hours. Where necessary to take account of employees in sectors for which supervision is a priority, evenings and nights are also supervised. For example, in the cleaning industry: a large part of the evening and night surveillance. In recent years, there has been a focus on the resources of the Labour Inspectorate, particularly in relation to two areas: combating social dumping and preventing sick leave, not least in the context of IA work. The Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened several times since 2006, including: in the implementation of the two government action plans against social dumping. In recent years, the Labour Inspectorate has also been strengthened in order to follow-up, in particular, the IA and sick leave work of enterprises, and the agency has, among other things, carry out specific initiatives in sectors with a high level of sick leave. These areas remain at the highest level of interest and there is a need for increased efforts to combat unprofessionalism and social dumping in some industries. For example, there is a great need for measures aimed at the clean-up sector, where many cases of breach of the labour protection law have been documented. Among other things, the government will establish an authorisation system for clean-up holdings, combined with a reinforced supervisory effort towards the industry. The supervision uses different responses when detecting breaches of the legislation, depending on the gravity of the case. These include instructions on the establishment within a fixed period, periodic penalty payments, the cessation of activities where there is a risk to life and health, or a police report. Finally, I would like to stress that, although supervision and control are important, the main responsibility lies with regard to the enforcement of the environmental protection law and to prevent unprofessionalism and social dumping on employers. How to ensure that the employer actually complies with the laws and regulations that apply is the fundamental question in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1009	I would like to thank the Council of State for a – let's say – fact-based response, that's good. But I do not think the answer was marked by very offensive thinking. It is unfortunately, if I can allow myself to say so, perhaps a bit symptomatic of the Council of State that she very often has evidence-based answers – and we appreciate that – but lacks the offensive attitude in matters. Because it can't be that everything is very well in the Labour Inspectorate? Right doesn't have any intention of trying to blackpaint the situation -- we don't say that there isn't much that's good -- but it's obvious that here there's both a lack of clear priorities, at least it works like this, and a lack of either will or resources to follow up matters. I will in no way stand here and accuse the Labour Inspectorate of a lack of willingness to follow up matters. And that must mean that it's a resource problem. Then, for example: found out at the NRK on 24 February 2011 that in November the Labour Inspectorate received tips on illegalities at a hospital, so the Labour Inspectorate did not have the resources to follow up. Then it is good that the Council of State can refer to macro numbers above how many inspections you have. I find that there are also evening inspections in some industries, that is good. But it doesn't explain that events like this can happen. I would probably like the Council of State to say a little more about what her ambitions for the Labour Inspectorate are. For the right, it is clear that the Labour Inspectorate will play an increasingly important role in the coming years, not least because the Norwegian labour market, with its advantages and disadvantages, is changing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1020	I would like the Right to tell me what their ambitions are related to social dumping and an unprofessional working life – besides talking about the resources of the Labour Inspectorate. We have generally not had any particularly offensive measures from the Right, except that they have proposed a few million more to the Labour Inspectorate in this year's budget than the government has. So the government has put forward two action plans against social dumping, which the Right and the opposition, in general, have voted against. It is also very important to understand that, even though the Labour Inspectorate was familiar with – according to the representative – that there were illegalities in this hospital, the Right and Advance Party City Council in this city were also made aware that things happened at home, without taking the right measures. We are here simply facing a debate on what to do in order to overcome the situation we are in. The traditional debate is whether we're going to run on supervision or whether we're going to place responsibility where it actually belongs. What is fundamental is that the responsibility for a serious work life lies with employers and those employed by employers to carry out their duties. And what is crucial for this government is that we make sure that employers actually follow the laws and regulations that apply. Then it's quite right, as the representative says, that this is a big and persistent problem, with big, growing challenges. We need to use all kinds of tools to prevent this. Supervision is one of them. But the crucial thing is to have a well-functioning, organised working life and to support organisations. That's one of the things we're doing now, through the tripartite industry programme, especially in the cleaning industry. This should gradually be extended to other sectors. Just making sure that the organisations work well, in my view and that of the government, is crucial for our success. The second, which is also crucial for our success, is that we use what we are dealing with, regional protection agencies, that they come into and work in areas where there is not enough strength among employees to organise and put in place common protection agencies, precisely because we are never going to be able to set up supervision in such a resourceful way – because neither the Right nor anyone else is going to be able to do it, it is the old police debate again – which will allow us to prevent every possible violation of the law. Then we just need to strengthen the different elements of the system that control and help the employer actually comply with Norwegian law. That's what we've done so far in the two action plans we've had against social dumping, and that's what we're going to strengthen further in the work environment message presented before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1033	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate. The fight for Norwegian working life must be about creating an inclusive working life where everyone can find room, where everyone can have a fair income development. But I have to say that I think it is something striking, this commitment to the Labour Inspectorate, who has come from the Right, and who was not present at all when you were put on government responsibility. But there must be reason to ask: What would the Right and the representative of Røe Isaksen want the Labour Inspectorate to oversee? With regard to what has been revealed in recent months, it is not an unknown phenomenon that this exists in Norwegian working life. Are those who have worked up to 78 hours of working week under demanding conditions – directly dangerous to their health over time – the representative of Røe Isaksen is concerned when he wants to open the Working Environment Act for a 78 hour working week at the same time? Are there those who live in uncertainty, in uncertainty, who are in illegal temporary employment, or who are illegally hired, who raise concerns when granting general access to temporary employment at the same time? We were allowed to publish for a long time back. With this, we have also strengthened the measures that come with – solidarity, transparency and duty of care – simply because one must have responsible people, who are held responsible when subcontractors do not do what they should, and trustees who can see if something illegal is happening. But this right over here is completely on the side line; they don't want to be on the side line. They say we agree on a common minimum standard of work in this country. That's not the case at all. At least I do not share the minimum standards of the Right-wing Representatives. I'll use one example of that. The majority in this room decided that we should have a clause stating that we should have Norwegian pay and work conditions in the Public Acquisitions Act. Then it's funny that the representative, Røe Isaksen, is attacking the Labour Inspectorate, at the Council of State or on whom it should be, because you don't get a response when you get a tip about illegalities, when the City Council from the same party that the representative, Røe Isaksen himself, did not do anything. Why? Well, because you think this should be a natural competition for pay. That means there's no minimum pay. It doesn't matter that we agree on a minimum standard, when the right can't say what it's going to be. In order to combat serious work crime, the Labour Inspectorate cannot be expected to be able to supervise absolutely all establishments. You have to sharpen your bets. But first of all, you're dependent on tips. In particular, I would like to thank the tens of thousands of trustees, guardians and serious employers who are experiencing this competition, who are falling into wages, who are entering the area of health, environment and safety as a problem for their own business, and who give feedback. These members take time to study, learn the rules of the world of work and are part of the solution to improve their own work by spreading knowledge. It is tempting to say that much can indicate that the representative Red Isaac and Right have been on many rhetorical courses directed by Kristin Klemet and Civita, but as we see in Sweden, and once we have heard the debate today, it may bring to mind the English term «same shit, new wrapping».
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1050	I will not start my post in English. I would first like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic. In recent months, with a breach of the Health and Welfare Act and the clean-up industry, the focus has been on the law and its scope, including the functioning of the Labour Inspectorate. Violation of the Working Environment Act is not a new phenomenon in working life in Norway, but we react strongly because some offences are more serious than others and therefore get more focus than the smaller offences. We have a working life that will soon be regulated down to the smallest detail. The Working Environment Act has more than 200 regulations in addition to the law. The Working Environment Act is too rigid and clumsy. It fits well into the labour market in 1977, but not today, in 2011. With a changed family pattern and working life, the law shows that it is mature for change. It also has to take over the red-green and not least the LO. The law must be modernised, not reversed. This is not about the fact that there have been many offences in the private sector, but it is about the fact that there are offences in the service professions where there is rotation and inconvenient working time, whether in the public or in the private sector. But we haven't seen so far that those who break the law as Adecco Health did have been reported to the police. Criticism of competitive outsourcing and privatisation is in place. At the same time, it is clear that there must also be a level playing field and a criticism of the option, namely public opinion. Are you good at it, or is this a little covered in political cotton? The Annual Report of the Labour Inspectorate for 2009 states that supervision is constantly revealing offences related to employment contracts, working hours and overtime. In many cases, there are indications of black economy and illegal work. The Progress Party believes that many of the offences come as a result of the lack of flexibility in working time arrangements and that trade unions are central to putting an end to good local solutions that they form part of at work. I can refer here to the nurses' union, which has granted exemptions to most of the requests for the tour they have received, and this indicates that the rule of working time arrangements is mature to be reviewed. That is why we are in order for good solutions to be put in place to alternative rotational arrangements, and that the Labour Inspectorate must be the body that decides, not the trade unions. The Progress Party will also introduce a tax deduction for the purchase of services for owner-occupied dwellings, in order to combat just black work and increase employment for people with difficulties in entering the labour market. Unfortunately, neither the Minister of Labour nor the SV's representative, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, have understood what this proposal implies, following their statements in the interpellation debate in the Stortingen on social dumping. They turn this issue into a matter of getting rich and wealthy people more in the wallet by buying white work instead of black, because there is a deduction from buying services related to maintenance and service jobs in their own home, while we want these employees to have orderly employment. So simple! In Sweden, this has been a success. This has led to 12,000 employees during 2009, according to the Swedish Tax Agency. This has led to a significant decline in black work. It has also led to the establishment of new establishments and to the absence of any need for de-employers. These are measures that reduce the work of the Labour Inspectorate, and that must be a good goal. The Progress Party has called for simplification of the legislation that the Labour Inspectorate has been set up to manage. Labour inspectorate has an important role to play in detecting a breach of pay and working conditions and in providing measures to reduce sick leave. The Progress Party would like to merge the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate in order to gain effective and strengthened supervision by bringing together professional competence in one place. This will lead to a significant efficiency potential. There is also a need to strengthen supervisory competence and to ensure a more robust oversight unit. We have therefore proposed a merger, starting a process aimed at achieving this within three years. Cooperation with other agencies, such as the tax administration and the police, should also be increased and intensified, and this should not least be achieved in all media.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1069	It's a very important topic that the representative, Røe Isaksen, addresses here. A decent working life with orderly conditions for employees is one of the most important projects of the Red-Green Government, and at the same time one of the policy areas that most clearly separates the government parties from the Right and the Advance Party. A changing labour market, including, inter alia: increased use of temporary employment agencies and increased use of foreign labour, imposes strict requirements on the job to be carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. It also requires that Stortinget allocate enough money to the Labour Inspectorate. Government parties have also done so through increasing appropriations. But good supervision is not enough to create a good working life. A well-functioning working life, which at the same time provides security for individual workers, needs strong regulation. Therefore, we vote against when the Right proposes to liberalise the labour market. This is why we come up with measures to improve the labour market, for example. through the fight against social dumping. I will commend the Council of State for the response to the interpellation. It was a very good and not least a serious answer. For me, it is actually not a problem that the Council of State makes “fact based” posts. Fact-based isn't a shell word for me. I understand that in the opposition's tabloid world, the best way out is with inspectors from the Labour Inspectorate who are wondering behind the bushes or sneaking around in the city's restaurants after closing hours in search of a crime. But I think that in the long run we are best served with a work supervision that works systematically, and that is based mainly on notified supervision and audits. Unannounced supervision shall be a complement to this. There is rarely just one rotten fruit in a fruit bowl. It is therefore important that official bodies carrying out control activities cooperate closely. In a restaurant where laundry services work illegally for a long time, it is likely that the legislation for the treatment of food or fire regulations will not be followed either. Coordinated supervision is a good thing and can lead to proper take-up of the worst in different industries. The centre party wishes to strengthen the use of this coordination of different supervisory arrangements. The representative, Røe Isaksen, was in his contribution to the scope of the Work Inspectorate's tasks, and he was problematic about this. I find that somewhat strange, all the time when the Right in the budget debate chose not to support a comment where the majority voted against the proposal of the Progress Party to merge Petroleum Control and Labour Inspectorate. There is a great difference – and a great tension – between combating major offshore accidents and preventing people from falling off a roof. Such a wing in the argumentation is confusing. We need to focus on what can be done by improvements. I therefore believe it is positive that the Council of State warns that she will come back with different ways of strengthening the sanctions of the Labour Inspectorate in the forthcoming General Report on Employment, the Working Environment and Safety. I am also pleased that the Council of State signals that she is monitoring whether the supervision is well enough to be resource-set up. The Code in the field of the working environment is not a theoretical exercise. It must take a very diverse working life, with different tasks and not least different sizes of enterprises. It is therefore essential that we constantly focus on legislation that is as simple as possible and not least precise in terms of what is important in order to ensure a good working environment. There has been considerable agreement among the representatives who have so far spoken in the debate on the importance of robust labour supervision, but even more important in order to ensure a decent working life is to keep the Progress Party and the Right and their liberalisation levers away from government offices. Norwegian workers know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1088	First, I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue, for an inclusive working life that is open to all, must be a primary goal for all of us – a working life capable of receiving people who want to work, or who come as new countrymen, or young people who want to try to get into work after finishing education, or who have dropped out, or people with disabilities who are struggling to get into work. This means that there is a need for a flexible labour market – a labour market adapted to the different needs of entry. But that also means that you need security that those who try to get into work are not being exploited. This means that working life must be sustainable, that one takes care of the employees, and that one sees the resources of people – that it is the people who are actually the great resource. In many ways, I believe that we have such a working life today. That's very good that's happening. As politicians, we have a great responsibility that there are good enough rules and that the rules are being followed, and here the Labour Inspectorate is important. I believe that the interpellant was concerned with important issues in its contribution, and also that the Council of State highlighted the issue well. But I believe that the debate should not only be about private versus public, as others have tried to angle it in the debate. It is as the interpellant had said, that there is so much progress in society — the fact that a free flow of work through the EEA Agreement has helped to bring more workers to the country that can be easier to exploit. It may also have created a greater need for temporary workers by, for example, doing so. it is not so easy to employ people in temporary posts. A simpler regulatory framework for temporary employment could mean that it would have been easier to avoid too many temporary employment agencies. I believe that perhaps the most important issue in the debate today is social dumping. Social dumping is the exploitation of workers at the worst, and systematic dumping of wages or working conditions is something that needs to be tackled. The Labour Inspectorate is doing an important job. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that the Labour Inspectorate should carry out systematic and alerted supervision. That must be the main goal. But I agree with the representative, Mr Isaksen, that a debate on targeting work will always be useful. Notifications and feedback to companies after the supervision has been visited are also an important part of the job. One knows that many of the inspections that have been carried out, and where deviations have been found, have subsequently led to good rounds in the companies. And that often leads to improvements. The focus on the theme is good, and it is good to discuss the Labour Inspectorate. I expect in the coming big message that one looks at the Labour Inspectorate and the time we are now in, and that one can also see if it is possible to target the work even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1103	The most interesting thing about this interpellation is that it travels, and that it is raised by a representative of a party who throughout its history has opposed the rights of workers and who are constantly trying to erode today's work environment law. When the Right now appears to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, it clearly has a different purpose, namely to cover the General Resistance of the Right to all measures against social dumping, and in particular the Regional Protection Ombudsman scheme. Then this becomes a pretty naughty embrace. Once, the Right had the opportunity to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate himself. At that time, they were not particularly concerned about it, although supervisory activities were in general a growing industry when the Right was in government. But it did not include the Labour Inspectorate. Only after the government change in 2005, has the Labour Inspectorate been strengthened from year to year, as a direct result of an intensified fight against social dumping. After all, the right has never understood or recognised the relationship between the work of the Labour Inspectorate and the work of the protection of the enterprises. Without good safety officers who every day of the year ensure that the provisions of the Working Environment Act are complied with in Norwegian working life, without active trustees who recognise and see their rights, and who ensure that the contract work is followed, the Labour Inspectorate would face an insurmountable task. After all, it is the cooperation between the trustee apparatus, the protection agents and the Labour Inspectorate that ensures that, after all, we have a good and well-regulated working life that protects the lives and health of workers and is the most important tool we have in the fight against social dumping. That is why we need to strengthen the role of the Ombudsman. That is why we need to extend the system of regional protection ombudsmen to several areas and more industries. We therefore need to ensure that job trustees gain insight into the pay and working conditions of subcontractors and hired workers. The right-hand problem, which they share with the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, is that they have never understood that there is just tripartite cooperation between employers, employee organisations and authorities that have given us one of the world's most productive working lives. As a result, attacks on the working time regulations of the Working Environment Act, attempts to weaken job protection and attempts to extend access to temporary jobs are, in reality, being attacked on the acquired rights of workers. Then, of course, we should note that the Right realises that we should strengthen the control activities of the Labour Inspectorate. That's good. Gradually, we may be able to convince the Red Isaac and other representatives from the Right that other parts of the struggle for a decent working life are also worth fighting. The internal control reform of the first half of the 1990s has undoubtedly contributed to the systematicisation of HMS work in enterprises, but it has also changed the work of the Labour Inspectorate. I'm afraid it has become more paper-checking than outside control. By doing so, I believe that control of the systems is more important than control in the workplace, where the offences occur. I am pleased that the Labour Inspectorate is now strengthening this part of its control activities, because control helps, we know that, and I will add coordinated control through joint efforts by the Labour Inspectorate, the tax authorities and the police. Increased efforts also require increased resources in these areas to combat all forms of social dumping. One of the problems we are facing in this connection is that the police and the judicial system lack the capacity to follow up on the reports of the Labour Inspectorate. The cases are simply dismissed, which also refers back to the Labour Inspectorate, which consequently leaves it unannounced even if they should. However, for the country, this is a matter of expenditure on the acquisition of income, where society receives ten times more for increased control efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1126	I have listened to this interpellation debate with great interest, and I mean it very politically genuine when I say that it should perhaps have been noted as a brand day that the Right finds reason to travel an interpellation about the Labour Inspectorate. I think that's very good. It is good that the representative Røe Isaksen makes it clear that the Right now also sees the importance of a good and strong work supervision in Norway. How this might possibly develop under a different majority in this Chamber, we may not spend much time wondering about today, but I note that the representative of the Progress Party has a completely different view of the Labour Inspectorate than what the Red Isaac clearly stated in his first post. What is said in the Stortinget about the Labour Inspectorate and Norwegian working life is, as many people have been told, that in sum it is very successful. We have created a working life that is good for Norwegian workers in general, but what I notice is that the right-hand side is never willing to take over, as was just said by the representative of Gullvåg, is that this is also the prerequisite for the productive working life. That it won't be fully recognized is a big mystery to me. At least I wish that the representative who has the interpellation here today could come up with this in his final statement because these things are linked. When it now looks as if after this interpellation we can see that there is a consensus on the main difference in Norwegian policy about the need for a strong Norwegian labour force, that thing is a bit in place – that is, with the reservation attached to the Progress Party, which I think we should be able to park in the future in that area. So this is the other thing -- several of the speakers have been up to it -- and I'm taking the floor to say that I think the interpellant should actually come up with this question right now, because that's not enough for supervision. I am not going to accuse the representative of using this institute to make misappropriation, but I would like to know why they are voting against all the legal wording that strengthens the work force's ability to do a good job. That's what's the flaw in the whole logic of the right-hand side of this question, which others have also been dealing with. We can only take it as the bourgeois majority tried before 2005; now it is a little long ago, but it is nevertheless relevant. Had it been adopted, it would have been, in general – I stress in general – that what was going on at the nursing homes in Oslo, Adecco-regi, was in the vicinity of legal. It would have been near the legal. Then it would not have helped if the Labour Inspectorate had come, because then they had been allowed to work for so long – near it. That's what's the big paradox. We need a law that provides the basis for proper supervision of work that has the ability to intervene. It's where the right side fails, in the construction of a safe and decent Norwegian working life. And that's what's regrettable, especially considering the reservation they have, that business is going to make its money. Those who represent the great liberals in this Chamber, the Progress Party, look past it smoothly, and later, if they can change what they call a more modern and dynamic working life, they should be able to create better value for employers as well. It's an illusion. Throughout Europe, we now see the way in which employment and employers go from that idea. We are not the ones responsible for these regulations, which are old-fashioned; we are actually the ones that are modern. We are modern on behalf of the workers, but above all we are also modern on behalf of Norwegian working life and Norwegian value creation. That's what the social-democratic holistic is that you systematically try to characterize as immature, and that's what's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1139	I will first of all be allowed to praise the representative of the Red Isaac for lifting this debate. I think it's a healthy debate, and I think it's a positive debate to have. I think we can all agree – as has been said from this pulpit – that the common denominator ‘Norwegian work’ has undergone major changes since the first law on the supervision of factory work from 1893 was introduced and until the work environment law that we know today was introduced in 1977, with its own work supervision. But then again, the world has changed from 1893 to 1977, it has changed from 1977 to today, and we know that the world will also change in the future. Røe Isaksen was in his main contribution that we see an increasingly globalized world, but also a more globalized working life. We can go back a good part of the year, to the late 1800s and early 1900s until the war, to my own built in Trøndelag. Then the county went from being a primary economic group to becoming an industrial group, with new industrial workplaces, and went down to the factory or to the dock on fishing to participate in the work. Today you drive into the Guards and travel to Seattle and elsewhere in the world and in Europe to work. A completely different globalised working life has been created, which also means that we get labour into Norway, which confronts us with new challenges, which challenge us to think in the future differently from what we have traditionally done. It is when I am a little disappointed when I hear the representative Kolberg, and also other representatives from the Workers' Party, who almost claim to have the only true monopoly on what is the correct regulation of Norwegian working life. When one accuses the Advance Party of almost not being concerned with the Labour Inspectorate, I can say that the Advance Party has granted just as much money as the current government of the Labour Inspectorate. The only part that has granted a few more dollars in the last year is the right hand side, with five million dollars. kr. So it was wrong that the Council of State said from this pulpit that the Right did not give more money to the Labour Inspectorate either. They did, but I don't think the five million. kr is what is involved in solving all the problems. But everyone agrees that we want strong labour supervision, and the Progress Party also thinks it is a challenge when we see that many of the supervision we have today is relatively fragmented. That is why we have proposed to merge Petroleum and Labour Inspectorate, a proposal that has also received broad support from one of Norway's leading professors in the field, Jan Erik Vinnem. He stated on 26 November 2009 – so far back as 2009 – that what we need in the future is a ‘professionally strong oversight, which today’s system does not satisfy’. Then I register that today's government parties are more concerned with fragmenting the oversight systems further down into the trustee apparatus, regional protection agent. I am not saying that it is not important to have a protection representative in a workplace, but I think it is a wrong way to go, because then you do not take into account that we have a versatile working life in Norway. It consists of both those that are organised, and it also consists of 600 000 workers in the private sector who are not organised. Here we must have a level playing field for everyone in the world of work, and I think it is important to think about more modernisation. To conclude with what Kolberg accused the Progress Party of being, we do not take on board the changes that are taking place in Europe: my claim is that the Workers' Party and Kolberg do not take on board the actual changes, the wishes and needs of Norwegian labour today and in the future. The recent debate has also highlighted what employees want in the future. Reading the 2011 labour barometers also makes it clear what both employers and employees want from the future. I think that the Labour Party too could have taken over, and that we could have had a debate on those premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1154	I would like to thank you for the debate, which was less about the Labour Inspectorate and more about several other things. I am also interested in hearing the representative Kolberg’s definition of ‘nearly legal’. In my book it is that either something is legal or it is illegal. It is, of course, worse to steal a car than to steal a chewing ice pack, but both parts are equally completely illegal, and it is important to bring them. Besides, I'm quite surprised – it's just as striking every time, I think – what happens to the Workers' Party when they discover that their own caricature is not right. For what's happening, and it's happened several times during this session by statements from this pulpit, is that the Workers' Party discovers that the scare image they've drawn up of the Right Party is not correct. It happens at the moment they start reading the Right suggestion, and it happens at the moment they start listening to what the Right actually says from the pulpit. I thought the Workers' Party had good investigators and consultants who were involved in opposition research, but obviously they don't have it if the representative Kolberg has only now discovered that the Right has been working consistently for several years to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. When the Workers' Party discovers that their own caricature is not correct, they move on and create a new caricature. There are two main differences between the Working Party and the Right in this case. One is about the way to argue. There's no secret, and there's no need to hide, that I'm proud of Right Policy, because we want a more flexible working life. We think, for example, that more flexible tour arrangements will provide more full-time positions. We believe that more temporary jobs will give more people a chance to get into the world of work, and we believe that a more flexible overtime calculation within the framework will make everyday life easier for many employees. But we understand the difference between shaving and cutting off the chin. The Labour Party argues against a scare image as if it were free and anarchy in the workplace. That's why it's so shocking for the Workers' Party every time the Right says that we're of course to have a decent working life and a floor plank. The right has responsible, important but moderate changes within today's work environment law. The other difference is that the Right is a party that listens to everyone. We're listening to the employees. We listen to the employees' organisations. We actually listen to all the employees' organisations, not just one of them. The working party is at its worst not champions of tripartite cooperation, but of bipartite cooperation. To put it a little bit on the top, you could almost say it looks like a two-person collaboration. What is an illustrative example? Yes, precisely the regional protection agency scheme. Is it a result of tripartite cooperation? No, no, no. Similarly, the Labour Party does not listen to small and medium-sized enterprises. They do not listen to those who create and maintain jobs in Norway. The right listens both to them and to those who share in creating the values by working there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1172	I should also like to start by saying thank you for the interpellation, although I would have liked the debate to be more concerned with what the Labour Inspectorate should actually prevent, i.e. get results, than just being an ideological debate linked to the Labour Inspectorate. I choose to stick to the fact, and the fact is that at the same time as the Right points up, when appropriate, a scare picture of the development of Norwegian working life, we know that they have voted against virtually all the proposals put on the table related to various measures to get the Norwegian working life order, measures that also, and then I will draw the line to Kolberg's posts, the employer's side in Norway wants to support. NHO Service e.g. support very many of the measures we are now working for together in industry programmes, which are opposed to the Right. That's the point of saying that this is yesterday's policy. It is quite right, as I said – I just want to stress it to Eriksson – that the Right has voted in favour of a marginal increase in contributions to the Labour Inspectorate at the top of the efforts made by the government. I would like to ask the representative of the Red Isaac: Does the Red Isaac really believe that 5 million? More to the Labour Inspectorate can address this in terms of working life and the challenges we face in Norway related to social dumping, which he encourages when it suits him to do so? I don't think he believes it himself. When he then remains in a discussion and has nothing more to say about it, what always comes is: the working time provisions of the Working Environment Act. It's okay. I always take a debate on the working time regulations in the Working Environment Act, but I don't interfere with people sleeping in bombs and working 24 hours without overtime payment, and rules on that. There are two different debates. I would like to take the debate on flexibility, because it is there. It's an ideological debate that's about not liking the fact that it's the central trade unions that actually have a word in the team on how to decide working hours. That's what this is all about. And if you listen to the employer's side, they're pretty much happy with the variant you have, because you get the exemptions you need, and it helps to create a good and well-regulated working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1185	The President will cautiously only make the Council aware that if she wants answers to the questions she now asked the interpellant, it is not possible for the interpellant to answer that in this case. Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1203	The report ‘Persons with reduced working capacity – Who are they?’ seems to me to have a sounding title. 220,000 people who are defined as people with «decreased working capacity» are actually an incredibly large group, and I've wondered many times about who these people are, and how we're going to be able to help them, because that's what this interpellation is actually about. In January 2009, a concept of ‘deprived’ was changed. One went away from the group notion of different performances, and one went over to define more according to the degree of need for assistance a needed from the public, and I really think there's a good way to see people. For the Christian People's Party, it's about seeing the possibilities in man, seeing what kind of residual work capacity you have, and what opportunities you have to be able to contribute back to working life and view these people as an investment and not an expense. It may also be a key when discussing labour market measures. It's really the key to the Nav reform too, that one should look at more opportunities, one should look at what needs they have, instead of looking at benefits. With regard to the definition of the people with ‘decreased working capacity’ who end up in that group, it is also a matter of requiring significant efforts from Nav and from users themselves to get into work. So we're talking about 220,000 people who need significant Nav efforts to get back to work. In a question hour before Easter, I challenged the Council of State when it came to two of these people. I told you about a man in the middle of the 50s I met in Arendal. He had started drinking, he had mental problems and his marriage was going on in the laundry, but he was one of the lucky ones. He was given a place on a labour market measure. He received job training and help in mastering everyday life, and today he is back in full activity, and he saved marriage thanks to work over social security. I remember the Council of State smiling a little when I said that he saved the marriage. Now I can tell you that it is incredibly important to work with life challenges. Governments know very well that prevention of life problems helps prevent sick leave, and it helps to prevent people from falling out of work. But it may also be an example of what the new idea is about some of the factors, that one sees workers as whole people, and that one manages to enter into the everyday life after work. This may mean that the measures are going to be extra expensive, but it shows some of the overall thinking that is happening. I also told about a 54-year-old woman who lives in Lillesand, who was not as lucky. She had stood on. She was fulfilling her duty, and she tried to get back to work despite the failing health. She dreamed of working at retirement, so she might be working 13 more years, but then she needed an organized job. Unfortunately, the action box was empty, and the company did not receive the salary subsidy it needed to hire her. She has today ended up as a passive social worker. This is two out of 220,000 people. When an outsider or a discusser discusses the well-being traps, I think very often that we should really rather have had so much focus on this group and who they are. These are people who are pushed into solitude, who often get a degraded quality of life, and who in some cases not only get pushed out of work but are pushed into the lunatic. The goal of the Christian People's Party is that one should be able to bring a ladder to the inactive people, with the wish that they will climb up and back to work. That's about. 220000 people registered with reduced working capacity. 62,000 were in action in March. The average for this year is well over 60,000. In the 2011 state budget, it has been added – and we have adopted it in this Chamber, but not with my vote – that it should go down to 51,900. What worries me the most is that today's level is 10,000 above what's supposed to be the average for 2011, as adopted in this room. That means that a clear one to do it will have to be cut even more until the harvest. If the cut is 51,900, as it was decided, that means you have to go down to 40,000, maybe 45,000, for the harvest. I would like to address the question of quality, because I know that the Council of State is concerned about the quality of the measures. I'm incredibly happy about that. There is little point in spending a lot of money on measures that are not working or that do not give the effect it is supposed to have. But there's no contradiction between thinking about quality, being concerned about quality, and increasing the number. At the same time, I have also seen that State Council Bjurstrøm has stated that it is useful and desirable with several places. I noticed with great joy a very engaged and good contribution by the party secretary in the Workers' Party, Raymond Johansen, at the national meeting in the Workers' Party. There he talked about building bridges back to work. That was incredibly well said. He had a post where he stressed that helping people back to work was one of the most important tasks. Therefore, a real priority cannot be given to this type of action. So both the Party Secretary and the Council of State suggest that there are incredibly important measures to be taken, which are good to bet on, and on which it is desirable to bet. There should also be results. The aim of today's debate may be to clarify a few things. Are there 45,000, perhaps 40,000, places of action for people with reduced working capacity per month until the autumn? It would have been good to know if it would be like this. Or is it just about cuts in 3,800 places of action, which the Council of State has repeatedly said, and which are, to that extent, formally correct? I have to agree with that. But the difference in the level today and the level adopted by the Storting must end with a cut of 10,000, 15 000 perhaps 20,000 to the harvest. The second thing I would like to know is if the government has plans in the short or longer term to strengthen the recovery area by increasing the number of response sites for this group. In the report with which I began my speech, one quite clear conclusion is that a continuation of the same level of action as today could thus ‘ lead to longer waiting time before an action is started’. If the reality is that one has to go down from an average of over 60,000 in 2011 to an average of 51 900, that means that the queues will not only increase, but will increase dramatically. We know that early efforts are key to success, so that no more people are pushed into misery and poverty. The last thing I would like to know is what plans, goals or wishes the Council of State have to be able to make an early effort for the people who are in line. Because when you get information from reintroduction companies that it takes an average of 900 days from being sick to coming up for action, it goes without saying that a person has already wasted a lot of valuable time that could have been used to get people back to work. All the discoveries that have been made lately show that there are many people who are frustrated. There are many companies that are frustrated because they have the ability and the capacity to help even more people. I'm going to finish my post by saying that if we can view these people as an opportunity, if we can view this group as an investment and not as an expense, I'm sure we can help even more people back to work. I know that everyone here in this room is busy. If there are no changes at the level of intervention, I am sure that ‘all will be included’ or ‘work for all’ will be heard rather hollowly for this group of people, who currently have too few action areas. But it's added to it that it's going to be even fewer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1237	I would like to thank the representative for this interpellation. I want to say that I think that I and the representative have very similar ambitions. When I smiled that time about marriage, it was because I thought it was a very nice story. It wasn't a harelas. Good follow-up of people with disabilities is central to this government. In recent years, therefore, we have implemented significant reforms aimed at strengthening the efforts of the inter-pellant group. Many of the reforms are based on St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007 Work, well-being and inclusion, the so-called AVI Communication. There is a new income insurance scheme, redundancy payments, for people with health problems and a new qualification programme for beneficiaries of social assistance. Provision of measures and services shall be made on the basis of individual needs. The Nav reform has made it possible for the entire Nav tool to be available to users. The purpose of the reforms is, inter alia, to: to speed up the implementation of labour-oriented assistance and to strengthen the follow-up of the individual user. Need and working capacity assessments provide a better overview of the individual’s ability to get into work. The reforms have changed both the legal basis and the statistical basis for people with disabilities. The group currently includes both former beneficiaries of reinsurance, rehabilitation and temporary unpaid pay as well as new recipients of redundancy benefits. In particular, growth in recent years is due to the increase in the number of recipients of temporary unincorporated emptying in the years up to 2010 and the increased number of participants in the qualification programme. Important reforms were launched just over a year ago. It has been a short time since implementation that we can see the obvious effects of the reforms today. With the extensive reforms being implemented, we need to give Nav time to work with the group in a qualitatively better way than before. Faster and closer follow-up of both sick-seekers, beneficiaries of redundancy payments and social assistance recipients may lead to a longer-term increase in the need for action places. However, it is important to note that not all those registered in Nav with reduced working capacity will need action space. Many with serious health problems will primarily need medical treatment or rehabilitation. In addition, many will need labour-oriented assistance other than a place of action. Nor is it the case that all should be offered measures at the same time. It is important to understand the level of action in relation to the need. Today, we are uncertain as to how many of the nearly 220 000 people with disabilities need labour-oriented assistance. The uncertainty relates in particular to the need for labour-oriented assistance in the large group of former beneficiaries of rehabilitation benefits and temporary unpaid pay. Nav therefore has a temporary limited basis for estimating the needs of the group for labour-related assistance in the form of labour market measures. We are in constant contact with the department on the development of more comprehensive statistics that can provide a more precise basis for targeting the instruments. Preliminary and uncertain estimates may indicate – I would stress preliminary and uncertain – that there will be about 60 pst. by the group of persons with disabilities in need of labour-oriented assistance. However, the need for action sites will be lower than that, since not all are required to participate in actions at the same time. All must investigate and clarify the applicant’s ability to work through a screening phase. An activity plan shall also be drawn up in cooperation with the user before action can be taken. In this monitoring and planning phase, there will usually be no need for action space. In the 2011 government budget, the government proposed a framework which, under certain assumptions on the prices and composition of the measures, provides a total level of action of 71 200 places. The size gave its support to the budgetary framework for labour market measures in the context of the treatment of the 2011 government budget. The planned level of action for 2011 is slightly lower than in 2010, but it is among the highest levels of action we have ever had. In the first three months of this year, an average of 60,000 people with disabilities have participated on average in labour market measures. There is a high level of action and higher than planned. And, just to get back to the question that the representative came up with, there's natural fluctuations over a year. It is quite common that the level of intervention is higher in the first two to three months. Then, the level of intervention falls sharply during the summer period – for explainable reasons – and then goes up again. It's not like you can figure out how much you've spent, to say it like that, and then say it means 41,000, or what the interpellant said, on average for the autumn. I'm not here to give an accurate answer on what it will look like, but one of the most important areas I'm following all the time now – and I'm asking for monthly reports from Nav – is just the implementation of the level of action to ensure that we don't get these up-and-down hacks. A better labour market with an increased demand for labour could lead to faster employment for those taking part in labour market measures this year than before. The flow of measures may increase, and more people may have access to action areas. Within the current budgetary framework, the ETF shall, in the light of its knowledge of its own users and local needs on the labour market, allocate individually organised action sites. It is an objective that all those with reduced working capacity who need labour-oriented assistance should receive such assistance without undue delay. Like the representative, Ropstad, I am concerned about longer queues. I would like to stress that 900 days is not a real number either, because it is from the first day you are ill. This involves a period of illness, rehabilitation, etc. So 900 days is a completely wrong number. I would probably also use it in a debate, to say it like that, but there is a false number in terms of the real average waiting time for action. The development is closely monitored. I would like to stress that people with disabilities in need of labour-oriented assistance are prioritised in line with other priority groups of jobseekers, such as young people and the long-term unemployed. In order to combat the growth of young people with disabilities, young people with disabilities under 30 years of age are given priority in the allocation of action places in 2011. My goal is to closely monitor the development of people with disabilities and to adapt the level and content of efforts to the needs of the group for labour-oriented assistance. However, the overall need for action is affected by several factors that change over time, such as: the labour market situation and needs to be assessed in concrete terms in the individual budgetary processes. From 2012, the Government will implement its own employment strategy for disabled persons. The measures under this strategy will focus in particular on young people with disabilities under 30 years of age who have difficulty entering the labour market from education and training. It is precisely here that it is important, as the representative of the House of Commons, to avoid people being pushed out of the labour market. This extra effort will strengthen the work ofrecruitment and lead to a better follow-up of jobseekers with disabilities. We have to limit as far as possible the growth of young people. This is also a challenge that goes beyond the actions Nav can offer. Interactions with others, such as health, education and working life, are important prerequisites. Finally, and importantly, a public body has been set up to propose during the year the job-oriented measures and the place of sheltered activities in the overall use of instruments. At present, a large part of reintroduction efforts are taking place within these establishments. The selection shall examine whether businesses provide flexible and well-adapted services for today’s and tomorrow’s working lives, assess the content and quality of the work of the protected enterprises and make suggestions for improvements so that more people can get to work more quickly. In my view, when the sample comes in December of this year, it will provide a very important basis for the further discussion, input and evaluations related to the use of the instrument in the future in terms of getting vulnerable groups into work. And to finish, we have to keep sure that the 7.3 billion. kr we use in the year on this, is used in a reasonable and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1281	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer, for what I would call a sincere commitment, and for a clear statement that this is an important field that should be given priority. I'll take that with me. I am pleased with the involvement of the Council of State and the focus on quality. I think that if you forget the quality, you'll both end up with worse places of action and you'll also, as the Council of State suggested, maybe waste money on something that won't work. I'm pretty sure everyone agrees. I'm very aware that the statistics have changed, and so the number may not have increased on the same scale when you just compare the groups, but what I'm concerned about is that you've changed the definition. And the definition is that they need help, they need significant help from Nav, and there's a need for a significant effort from the users themselves. When you say that there are 220,000 people, and maybe 60 pst, who want to get into work, or who have the opportunity, there is still a significantly higher number than there are places for action. So no matter how you turn the statistics, the need is much bigger, and the capacity to help is much bigger. So the result of the policy is today that queues are increasing, at the same level of action. When the Council of State does not – not expecting budgetary leakages and indications of what will happen – correct my figures, I have to say that I am concerned about what progress will be like. Because even if something is seen to be corrected or corrected during the summer, with a lower level of action then, it will still not be possible to correct it — and now we are already in April — that the average is over 60,000. So if the Council of State does not want the level of action to be at a much higher level, the result will be that there are months beyond the harvest where the level of action may continue as in summer. I'm surprised if that's the government's goal. Then I think at least that the postings and fighting in my own party and otherwise out there will increase significantly. It will also be a mistake. Because when you look at the labour market situation as the governing one, and use it as a tool to sort of correct the level of action, it will not be right either. Yes, it will be easier to get into work when unemployment is lower, but these are people who have been defined to need significant assistance from Nav to get help. That is why I believe that there must be other criteria. It'll be right for these people to get the opportunity to get into work, and it'll pay to think of it as an investment to be able to reduce the cost later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1292	Thank you for your commitment. I mean, basically, there are three relationships that separate what Ropstad says, and what I say. Ropstad says it was wrong that we went down somewhat to the level of action this year. You can always discuss that, it was an overall assessment of the unemployment rates. We should not forget, as I have said before, that we have never spent as much money on measures as we are now using, precisely because we are now busy streamlining measures much more related to individual needs. It's part of the whole Nav reform. In the long term, this will also lead to better success in the actions we are taking. There we agree that it is absolutely vital not to have a flow of measures that people go in and out of, but that we actually see that people come out to work. I believe that we are very successful, but I will not underestimate, cf. an interpellation we've had here before in the Storting, that there are concerns about whether we're succeeding as well as we think we should do. I think we should have a common concern for that. So I can confess to Ropstad that I am concerned that the management of these measures is in a way in a steady and good flow. It is a major challenge, for this is about actions that are distributed around the counties and looked around at all the Nav offices. But I think we've got a very close follow-up all along to ensure that we don't get these thresholds up and down. I think we need to get this debate a little further – one can say, of course, that's because I'm now going to defend a level of action that I'm defending – a debate about 1,500 or 1600 places, etc., especially because this shows that we never hit completely. These are average prices and averages, and there are flows. What's important, I think, is to start discussing what we want this to look like in five years, ten years, etc. What role should the industry play – to put it that way –? That's what the Brofoss committee comes with, and I think that's very important. I think, in the long run, that there's no government that's kind of going to bulk with 7 billion. kr more for measures. So we don't get there that every man's action, to say it a bit banal. So we have to think, and we have to set some goals -- what do we want? I believe that the Nav reform should help us to bring people to work to a greater degree, together with the reintroduction industry. But we probably have to move a little bit away from the idea that one action is what kind of gets people to work. I would like that debate to take place. That debate I am committed to including the action industry as well, because I believe it is absolutely crucial. I welcome them, but I also want them to think in a new way. And then we get to take the discussion if the level is too high or too low. But if we're going to move on, we also have to take this debate, because otherwise we just risk giving more to something that we're not quite sure is going to work properly all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1305	Action places are being violently debated all the time. I would then agree with the Council of State that it is a pity that there is the level and number of places of action that are being violently debated more than the quality, the device and the content, i.e. what kind of action we are going to have, and how it works. But there's work going on, and we'll be sure to get back to those debates, either the opposition will or not. Then, of course, the level of action – when we first debate it, then – could be higher. That's the way most of what's good. There is no one who can say with his hand on the heart that they are satisfied as long as there is a queue of people who need something we strictly believe they should have, that prevents passivity, and that helps them out in activity. However, the fact that it is a queue does not mean that the area is not a priority, that the group is not a priority. Neither does that mean that the situation is black. The level has escalated over the year. The situation in the labour market is improved. This is good news for everyone, including those with disabilities. So the fact that the level could be higher doesn't mean that we're not betting on this group. The goal of everything we do in our area is to reach these people better. The Nav reform will bring more complex problems back to work – work performance assessments, changes in the composition of measures, tailoring assistance to individual needs more than individual adaptation to the system. The most important thing of all we are working on in the future is also about it, both the frail reform and the employment strategy: a more inclusive line of work, simply. Of course, in terms of the means of achieving these objectives, it is not only labour market measures that need to be taken. However, more measures will be needed for those with reduced working capacity in the implementation of the strategies and reforms we are now implementing. The level of action of those with reduced working capacity should therefore be raised, regardless of the economic cycle. The interpellant and the state councils are absolutely right about that. And those with reduced working capacity are more cyclical. That's why our ambition is also to secure them better in the future. It is also the case that the demand for intervention in our budget area is a result of what is being done in all other areas over time. Expenditure on disability benefits, the need for a number of measures, the number of people on social assistance — all of this is a result of the success of the broad, prevention work in all other areas, i.e. the impact of the overall policy. That is why we cannot deal with labour market measures in isolation, set up the various budgetary proposals from the parties against each other and throw dice at the parties, whichever gives the most. No, we have to look at the whole of what the parties stand for, and what they do. Budgetary policy, low interest rates, offensive industrial policy, anti-crisis measures, action against dropouts in schools, strengthening criminal services and psychiatry, a new IA agreement focusing on past follow-up and reintegration, measures against social dumping and involuntary part-time, social cohesion – that is what determines whether we are able to ensure that people are most at work in the future, that as few as possible experience losing their jobs or getting out of work. That is what will ensure that several of those in need of assistance, and not included today, will be included in the future. It does not help to add to any hundred additional areas of action, while at the same time focusing on the future's inclusive working life with a policy that will help make working life more unprofessional, the pressure harder, the need for more people, the need to control the economy, and the job of the people, or to make them with reduced working and function a b team in the world of work. And I am not aiming here at the inter-pellant party or the whole policy, as it is fortunately on our side in the broad lines and in welfare policy. However, I note that their future possible partners do not have an equally sound social policy for inclusion. It's going to be a bit like the previous debate we had here today: it doesn't help to strengthen supervision when you run a whole policy that's exacerbating the problem. The goal of ensuring everyone's work is done with several tools. The action areas are just one of them. The most important thing is the whole of the policy. Action places and levels are not a goal in themselves, but they are a tool for inclusion. Then together, we have to discuss more often what is even more important than the level, because I believe that we agree that the level of this group should rise. Together, we need to discuss what is even more important in the future: the content and quality, and how we best use the areas of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1326	Work is important. It gives identity, it gives fellowship with good colleagues, and it gives access to other social goods. The pay of disabled people is also important in order to ensure equality in society. It is not necessarily the reduced function that prevents hundreds of thousands now from being out of work. In many cases it is about organising a job or finding the right job. The workplaces can be adapted to a very large extent. It's really about the will and the ability to do it. Technological developments are progressing, and there are jobs for most. But often there are bureaucratic and insistent application processes and lack of guarantee that employers work hard to hire people who need special adaptation. In the case of action sites, there is no doubt that they have been cut. We receive daily enquiries that the number has fallen, and when we worked with the Nav offices last autumn, the situation was that it was not possible to get anyone to take action, despite the fact that there were actually more places of action. Now those who need extra assistance have not become fewer, and then there should be little reason to cut in places. It should be a right for everyone to have the opportunity to try a job. And for these kinds of jobs, like the permanent job placements, it shouldn't be waiting time. If a person has to have such a job, the job must be there and it must not depend on a local economy. Everyone's going, says the Workers' Party so nicely. But it must be in the long queues. For cows, that is also true for this area. It's a great pleasure in Fredrikstad to see the "yellow bitches" that are out there celebrating and clearing the streets. They have a professional pride that few people show today. We have so many people who enjoy the kind of jobs that it would be a right to get such a job on the day you need it. We also know that the transition from school to education is important. A lot of people fall out of work already at the time, and a lot of them are struggling with a lot of mental problems. So it's important to capture students, like before they drop out of school. There is also a need for even closer cooperation between Nav and the work centres. In particular, it is important to look at cross-ministerial cooperation. It is a recurring problem to work in each of your areas and not be able to interact with them in such a way that it will be a good solution. The effective functioning of labour market measures as job clarification measures and the possibility of granting disability benefits is a claim that has been made. And that's not how it really was supposed to be. It was intended that this would lead people to work as much as possible. And I have to say that now it's important to see if you can get more people over to disability, instead of finding a suitable job. It takes too much time, there is too much time – too much waiting – before you get these people into a type of job. There are many who work with job coaching, but many of them have health and social professional backgrounds. They lack professional education aimed at job coaching. I was at a conference in Copenhagen where this was the theme. It was noted that there have been changes – which I believe are going in the wrong direction – in the recruitment requirements for this profession in Norway. Now everyone has to have high school education, and there may seem to be something wrong. In the past, there was a demand for professional practices, which tended to vary – that was an important requirement. The newly educated person now gets a job without knowing the workplace, so the focus on the value of work certification has been lost. There were only two Norwegian students who took education within the Supported Employment in Moss. It worries me a lot, because I think having good coaching that can help those who are out of work, is a kind of action that can become very important in the future. So I hope that the Council of State will take that, and increase that kind of action. Most people actually want ordinary work, they want help to get to an ordinary job and work best there. But many people may need help for up to three years before they can stand on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1349	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Rupstad, for addressing this important issue. Despite the fact that everything — or at least very much — is going very well in Norway, there are still too many people out of work. As the representative of Ropstad pointed out, this figure is not only high, it is increasing — an increase from around 153 000 people with disabilities in 2006 to more than 216 000 in 2010. An increase of over 40 pst. over a period of only five years is too high, despite changes in terms of denominations and the conversion of statistics. For the Right, it's important to give individuals the chance to develop themselves and all their abilities. We believe that it should facilitate a society with opportunities for everyone, where everyone has the freedom to live independent lives, and where everyone who falls outside will have a new chance. The welfare state cannot be all for everyone, but it must be strong for those in need of help. The social distinction in Norway we know is between being at work or not. That is why we believe that the overall objective of labour and social policy is to help all people to experience that security and the joy it is to have a gainful job to do. Too many people of working age are out of work today. For the Right, it is absolutely essential that everyone who can work should work, and experience the freedom it is to be self-sustaining. An important way back to work for many is through the action areas, but it is far from the only one. At the same time, it is important that those with the greatest need for intervention sites — those who need a little more to have the same amount — have access to them. On the right, the budget proposed a turnaround of labour market measures against those most in need. As part of this, we would, among other things, establish 3 000 additional areas of action for the disabled. In addition, we will improve and simplify procedures for the organisation and strengthening of concrete actions that will make it easier for people with disabilities to be at work. It is the labour market — not being in State action places — that is the target of all, most of them with reduced working capacity. That is why we need to lower the threshold in order to get into working life; we need to make it easier both to get into working life for the first time and to get back into working life after having been outside for a period of time – for one of the other reasons. It is a common objective to strengthen the inclusion of people of working age who have difficulties in getting into or who are falling out of work. The Councils pointed to preliminary figures showing that approx. 60 pst. in the disabled group, assistance will be needed. Nav's report, as the representative Ropstad has pointed out, says that very many, about 59 pst. of those with disabilities, persons who can be considered to be close to the labour market and whose early action will have a significant impact. Knowing which actions work, for whom, in a timely manner, and for whom longer waiting or fewer measures may be fateful will be important. To the right, the Council of State announced the debate on the so-called action industry — i.e. on level, on objectives — and absolutely that this debate should focus more on content, progress and quality. It's about the inclusive community, and it's about a new chance for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1366	I would like to start by thanking the representative for raising this issue. I believe that the starting point for the debate must be taken into account in the facts. And the facts are that the level of action in 2011 is high. The centre party will not accept the opposition's constant attempt to blackmail everything that the government is doing. The representative points out that the number of people with disabilities in 2011 is 216 800. The Interpellation indicates a number in action locations of 51 200. The representative himself used an average number of 51,900 action places in the article, and the Council of State a number of 71,200. I don't think such a counting policy is fruitful, and to use the words of a newly appointed State Council: there are differences between action places and action places. They have different costs. I record that the representative Ropstad was busy helping those who were far from the labour market, those who had to use the ‘stable’ to get in. And it's those who need expensive measures. If a Christian People's Party's alternative budget for 2011, there would be an average of 1,000 more action places. Then it is quite free to talk as if all the 216 800 would have a place of action with the Christian People's Party's policy. I would challenge the representative Robstad on the following questions – he talked about a 54-year-old lady from Lillesand: Will the representative Ropstad from Stortinget’s pulpit give this lady a guarantee that with the Christian People’s Party’s alternative budget she would have a place of action? I think that is a timely question to ask, and I expect to get an answer. So there's talk of nuances between the majority's allocation and what is the Christian People's Party's wish. By this starting point, I believe that this is the basis for a good debate. Because we have to recognise that the work to increase employment, and especially among people with disabilities, is not a simple task. As the Council of State stated in its response, much has been done, but new measures will also be needed, and we also need to assess the level of action. The centre party is willing to take new steps to get more disabled people into work. This is important for individuals, businesses and society. An important step towards creating a working life where there is room for more people is to use wage subsidies for establishments employing people with disabilities. The government’s political platform for government parties says that the government will ‘use wage subsidies as an alternative to social security for vulnerable groups’. The centre party considers this to be a very important measure. Today, we have a system called a fixed-term wage subsidy – TULT. This mechanism needs to be extended and strengthened. In Denmark, one has had such a scheme for several years and used it actively. I've been to Denmark myself and I've looked at the scheme, as they call it "flexjob". The conclusion of this study method is that the idea is fundamentally good. But the Danish scheme has been implemented in a way that is not sustainable. The scheme is too attractive for both employees and employers. This has led to an over-consumption. It also has a insight, and one has proposed changes to the scheme. The aim shall be to enable as many as possible, including disabled people, to be part of the working life under normal conditions. I am also aware that the Council of State has been in Denmark and studied the flexjob scheme, and next month the Committee will travel to Denmark. Then the ‘flexjob’ and the Danish experience with the scheme will be an important theme to become better acquainted with. The labour market is diverse. The disabled group is also multiplicity. This means that we need to use a number of instruments to increase employment. Because we are in the good situation here in the country that the main challenge in the future is to provide enough labour. A working life that needs the labour force is a prerequisite for success. For the Centre Party, it is essential that passive social security benefits be the last resort. We have a great responsibility to give as many people as possible the opportunity to live on their own labour. Much is done, but a lot of work must also be done in the future. The qualification programme, the notified employment strategy, the increased use of wage subsidies and new disability benefits are central to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1387	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the representative, Mr Ropstad, for the debate that has taken place here today. This is a debate that, in every way possible, engages the entire Labour and Social Committee every time we touch the theme. There's a lot of commitment -- we have a lot of thoughts about what we want to strengthen. We don't always agree on all of that, but we agree to improve this. We want to do more and more correctly. The debate today has to some extent been marked by numbers. For my part, I think that behind all the numbers that we've now spent some time and energy on, there are people. It's people who have completely different challenges. There are people who experience that they have had an extra barrier to participation in the labour market, and there are very different reasons for this. Action has already been taken to ensure, to a greater extent, that measures available do not depend on the security of income or are not limited by the systems but are designed in relation to individuals and individual needs. This was why work clearance and work performance assessments were introduced. It was seen that somehow it was not a point to have a system that made restrictions on the needs of the individuals. System changes alone never solve tasks. System changes alone never solve the challenges we face. The tasks this time are handled by the Nav staff. They are solved by the skills and tools they have to offer. But first of all, this is done together with people who are able to find their mastery, who are able to raise their skills to become fit for new tasks, after they have been through, for example. health promotion measures. Public health is also a factor in this debate. That's why we have to work for the future to twist our counting method. We're going to have to count more consciously, given whether the help and the contribution we're making leads to an improvement in job opportunities. Not everyone is going to get into work even if they have a better job opportunity. We're also going to have a system that doesn't make that part of life an outsider or a poor quality of life, but we're going to have the goal that they're going to have an opportunity to get back to work. The focus that we're going to keep is that what we're doing is going to work. We're going to do the right things at the right times with the right people. We're all probably looking forward to the committee tour where we're going to spend a few days looking at what other countries are doing to try to solve these challenges – not strange, not special European, but universal. It's about the challenges that people have in relation to having the opportunity to have their own income. We need to continue working to ensure that we have employees in Nav with good professional competence. It's a professional lift over time. We need to give priority to doing the right actions. The need for help is, as I said, very different — everything from medical rehabilitation and treatment to empowerment. But it's about doing it on very many different levels. We have to do it in the form of the IA agreement, which ensures better and earlier follow-up of the sick. We need to have better training and follow-up of the prescribers, so that they can contribute even more to the dialogue between the sick person and the employer, and ensure that people return to work. It is about the design of the employment strategy, which is a specific measure for one group of people with disabilities. This is about early action, but it is also about the cooperation reform. These are measures to combat high school drop-outs, in order to improve the systems of study for those who need more time. It has, among other things, some measures have been taken in relation to young people with disabilities to study. We're going to follow up the work to help more people get into normal working life, because that's actually the primary goal. For those who cannot enter normal working life, there should be room to increase the opportunities for permanent job creation – whether they come in the form of flexible jobs, or in the form of what we today think of as VTA schemes, or whether they come in new forms that we so far have not thought about. That's what we're going to do in the future. The development and qualification are about enabling people to be responsible for their own lives and their own lives. But we always have to remember that being out of work, being unhappily tired, never being out of life. It's part of life, and for some, it's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1413	It's been an interesting debate. There's a debate we've had in this room many times, especially in the last year. We started with it in front of the state budget, when we left it for 2011, and it's rolled and gone at regular intervals in this room. There is something that amazes me a little when I listen to representatives from the Workers' Party. It is true that there are many measures and many things that are related, but it is clear that there is a certain discomfort in this debate, as any intervention moves away from the core of the challenges, the core of the problem that this issue is about, namely the reduction of labour market measures. At a micro level, there are two states that I know have had major problems, and it's Sogn and Fjordane and it's Nordland. We know that in terms of labour market measures, the pot in Sogn and Fjordane was cut from 120 million. SEK in 2010 to SEK 103 million. kr in 2011. We know that in Sogn and Fjordane, the goal was that permanent job placements should be reduced by 30 pst. until 2013. And we know that at the end of January – if I am not mistaken – the Council of State put down its feet and said to keep the VTA sites, that they should be protected. At the same time, a system was introduced in which it was said that any reductions would occur only by natural departure. It was the counter-message that came from Nav Sogn and Fjordane to the VTA companies. Any reductions should be made on natural take-off. Yeah, that means there's going to be a decrease for the VTA sites as well. That means they're not protected in this context. This means that new year's coals with people who do not have the opportunity to enter the ordinary working life will be excluded from the labour market. They're not coming in. This is not information that I am making up from this pulpit. These are information confirmed both from the re-entry holdings and from VTA holdings, but they are also well documented in a notice in Frida on 14 April, just before Easter. After the council said she would put her foot down, I did not expect us to have such a look-up in Frida just before Easter. But there's still a contraction in this area. So it's the weakest that gets hit. I agree that there should be an increased focus on normal areas of action to get people out of work – that is the most important thing. And when Raymond Johansen at the national meeting said – as the interpellant was about – that we should build bridges into working life, why do you have a government, which comes from the same party, that builds walls that prevent the most disadvantaged from entering the labour market? You get locked out of work. We know that there are many, several thousand people in line for labour market measures – only one of these labour market enterprises in Sogn and Fjordane is in line. And who's being hit? Well, there are people who come from drug problems, who have been in rehabilitation, who want to get out of prison, who want to get into work and need work training, qualification, immigrants, and those who have the least luggage with them, who don't get the necessary help, and who thus stay standing out of work. I think, unfortunately, what happens is that the state saves short-term money by implementing these cuts, but it will lead to more, and greater, payments to disability in the future. This is the same as, among other things, Mr Johan-Martin Leikvoll, head of the Attführerningsbetriebs in the NHO, has stated. He has exactly the same concern. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether she also has the same concerns as Leikvoll. How would she solve the core of this problem? How would she ensure that they with VTA slots were maintained their VTA sites, and not being pulled down?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1427	Thank you for a good debate and for many good contributions. I'll try to get into a couple of issues. The Council of State said that one cannot have one action per man. Actually – although I know that my party does not mean it – I wish we could say yes. I actually want one measure per man. If, in principle, we say that the measures are what we're going to do, or that people need significant action from Nav, we should give them that help. That should be the starting point. The representative Trettebergstien says that the level should not be so dominant in the debate. Then I'm not sure if she really understood what I'm trying to point out. Because what I'm concerned about is that from today's level, and the level that will come to the harvest, there will be 20 000 fewer people who have room for action – from today's date approx. 62,000 and maybe down to 40,000. If it doesn't matter, it worries me a lot. When she says that we agree that the level of action places must rise, it is joyous, but from what is going to happen to the autumn, I am concerned. That is why I believe that the group is not given enough priority. That's what's my starting point. When the representative Pollestad is in the bit with numbers, and there's a lot of numbers, that includes the number the government council refers to over 70,000, all of them. The numbers that I'm referring to, I think the right number is 51,900, relate to those with reduced working capacity, which I've chosen to focus on in this debate. When Pollestad also challenges the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress that what is my main concern is what is happening in the revised. Because yes, the Christian People's Party budget shows a direction, and I'm glad we chose to prioritise the higher. I would like to prioritise it even higher, as I also suggested at the beginning of my post now, but the main point is that we are now in a situation where the average is over 60,000. 62,000 were in action in March – what will happen until the autumn? I'm sorry there's a lot of numbers, but the level is important, because there's also something about how long you have to wait, how early a person can get the effort, and how many people get the help they need. Now when I'm going to challenge the Council of State to her last answer, I hope she can get into the part that comes to the harvest, that numbers are important, and that the level of action is important, so that on 1 May she can say that there is a priority case for the Workers' Party in the revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1442	I have no problem saying that there has been a decline, a very small decrease in the number of action places this year, so I would like to take that debate. However, the point is that it is not to save money, for this government has not saved in action places during the period it has run. We've spent a lot more money on action sites than you've ever done in history, but we might use them in some other way, and we're not just measuring the number of places. We have a lot more tailoring in the places. It's important to make sure they work. I thank you for the debate, but I would like to say that at the same time there is a rather strange debate. Because there is a debate where – with respect to reporting – we mix lobsters and canari. We're talking about a group as if it were one group. I think it's very important to be aware that these are difficult things – and I'm not going to try to be a teacher, because it's wrong to be – for a large part of the group who's sitting waiting for redundancy money. They should never take any action – I think – they should get their job skills assessment; they should find out where to go. It is likely that part of them will be on disability, some will be on qualification, some will be on labour market measures, and some will have easier access to normal working life. We have to be clear about this complexity, we have to be clear that Nav has to be good at this, and we have to be clear that we have now got the framework in place so that Nav can be good at this. Now we have to build on what we've got in place, and not just get a discussion about 1,000 places or not. I want to comment on what was said by the Center Party. The representative called can of course not give any guarantee to this lady; it would at least be very foolish to do. Because we can't have a system where there's no queue. It would be an incredibly poor use of society's money, if it were such that everyone could at any time get into action. We must not forget that someone is selling these measures. I am happy with those who sell the measures, they do a good job, but they sell measures. Therefore, to Ropstad: I have made it quite clear that there are no VTA sites to be closed. There are 8 000 VTA sites, but it's because of the system that there's constant conversion in the VTA sites. But the sum is 8 000 VTA sites in Norway. There shall be no reduction in VTA locations, no matter what information the representative may have. Here, there has been a clear political demand for Nav that I should be careful to follow up. I've had clear meetings with Nav, and I think it's said very clearly. That those who stand for action should have a different opinion, I can discuss with them, but the political message is very clear. I'm glad it was said from the Right here that in the long run you want the debate on how to make this the best possible way to get people to work, that you get a different debate than the whole time about the number of places, the quality and what we get out of the money we spend.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1456	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-27.ana.ud2399e1469	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
