ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-03.ana.ud217e16	Received by the then-appointed deputation, His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince found himself on Monday, October 3, at 3 p.m. 13 in the Grand Hall, accompanied by members of the Government and a procession of civil and military officials. The assembly sang the first verse of the «King Song». His Majesty the King's speech to the 156th great at its opening: Honored President, representatives of the people. I welcome the Stortinget to responsible work and want it to be of benefit to the country of origin. The attacks on 22 July were directed at Utøya and the government quarter, but hit the whole of Norway. The Norwegian people responded by calling about democracy. Out of the evil grew a strong popular will for cohesion, openness and participation. In the most critical hours and days our country has experienced since World War II, the people took responsibility for our values and showed the way forward. It strengthens the rule of the people. At the same time, the tragedy will affect both people and society for a long time. We must therefore continue to mobilise the community. As individuals, participants in non-governmental organisations and as governments at different levels, we must help to heal wounds and restore safety. A whole world has shown compassion for those who were affected. People all over the world have expressed their admiration for the dignity with which the Norwegian people met the acts of terror. The government will go through carefully both the preparedness ahead of the events on 22 July and the management downstream. The report of the 22nd July Commission will be a central contribution. In the light of this review, the government will assess the need for increased resources and any legislative changes in different areas. In the short term, there will also be a need for action to strengthen our security and preparedness. In addition, the terrorist attacks on 22 July resulted in significant additional expenditure in several areas. The Government will come back with proposals for the necessary changes in appropriations as a result of the attacks on 22 July, in addition to the proposals that have already been put forward. The government will balance the need for necessary security and security preparedness against a common desire for continued proximity between the Norwegian people and key social actors. The overall objective is to follow the will of a society with more openness, more democracy and more participation. It requires that we act with the same wisdom, humility and respect as the Norwegian people. The government invites the Stortinget and the Norwegian people to let democracy and the free word win human dignity and security over fear and hatred. The government's policy is based on an ambition that: Norway will have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and increase value creation across the country, we will defend, renew and improve one of the world’s best welfare communities, we will lead in the global climate battle. Working for everyone is a main goal for the government. There is considerable uncertainty about international economic developments, and financial markets have been seriously disturbed in the summer. The government is therefore following developments closely. The best thing we can do is to keep order in our own house and continue to pursue a fiscal policy that contributes to stable economic development both in the short and long term. The government will continue its efforts for a good and decent working life. The government will present a job strategy where the main target group is young people with disabilities entering the labour market. The government will contribute to the further development of care services, and will follow up the agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left on care plan 2015. From 1 January 2012, implementation of the Interaction Reform will start, providing patients and users with better services where they live. The government will present a major report on drug policy. By providing all the good opportunities to take education, we will develop the Norwegian welfare community. The government continues its efforts to get more people to complete higher education. The Government will submit a communication to the Storting on education for welfare services. The government will focus on quality and will continue to focus attention on the results of research efforts. The government will facilitate the continued good development of the service provision in the municipal sector. The government will present a communication to the Stortinget on a forward-looking building policy. The government will provide a notice to Stortinget on the relationship between the State and the municipality. The Government will follow up the Commission's report through a notification to the Storting. The government, on the basis of the church agreement, will help the Norwegian Church to remain a living and open church. The government will work to provide more and more public services digitally. Norway will play an active role in ensuring that the climate summit in Durban, South Africa, is an important step forward towards an ambitious global climate agreement with the widest possible participation. The government will present a communication to the Stortinget on climate policy. The Government will submit to the Stortinget a proposal for the inclusion of the revised EU ETS Directive in the EEA Agreement and a legislative proposal for the continuation of the climate allowances system for the period 2013 to 2020. Norway shall be an environmentally friendly and leading energy nation. Renewable energy production shall be increased and the electricity transmission network shall be strengthened. The Government will submit a notice on the deployment of the mains power grid in Norway. The government will maintain the exploration activity for oil and gas and facilitate access to interesting exploration areas by the oil industry. The objective is to increase the extraction rate of existing fields. The government’s objective is that Norway should be a leading country for the capture and storage of CO2. A well-functioning maritime and land transport system is important for increasing value creation and quality of life and for putting the whole country into use. Following up the national transport plan, the government will work to achieve the objectives of a safe and environmentally friendly transport system that is accessible to all. The government will conduct an active enterprise policy across the country, and bet on areas where we have special prerequisites for creating values. The government will develop new strategies for the tourism industry and the mineral industry. The Government will present a communication on agricultural policy. The government will contribute to further developing the role of the maritime food industry as coastal value creations. The government will follow up on efforts to increase preparedness for acute pollution along our long coastline. After a wide consultation of the NOO 2011:13 on the jury system, the government will address all important issues related to the jury system in depth. In 2012, the Government aims to present a Communication on the further development of the Police and Lone Civil Service Statute and a Communication on violence in close relations. The government will conduct a consistent, fair and legal refugee and asylum policy. We build our refugee and asylum policy on international conventions. Norwegian practices shall be broadly consistent with those of other comparable countries. The government will have a balanced and controlled immigration. The government will present a Communication on how the Norwegian society can succeed even better with its integration in the years to come. The government is following up the Cultural Promise. Through the cultural promise, we increase quality and contribute to the participation of more people in cultural activities, voluntary teams and associations. The Government will submit proposals for the liquidation of the cash support for two-year-olds and the strengthening of the cash support for one-year-olds. The Government will present a new long-term plan for the defence sector for the Grand Duchy in 2012. The acquisition and phase-in of the new fighter aeroplanes will be a central theme. The Nordic regions remain the main strategic focus of the government in foreign policy. The government will further strengthen the Northern Region policy in line with the announcement to the Stortinget presented in the autumn. Norway will continue to support those who are fighting for democratic and economic development in the Arab countries. The main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are firmly established, including strong recognition of the UN and international law, membership of NATO, the EEA Agreement and Norway’s non-EU membership. I beg God to bless the work of the Great Britain, and declare Norway's 156th big thing too open. Message from the King to the Kingdom of Norway's state and governance in time after the last notification, read by the Council of State Ola Borten Moe. In accordance with the Constitution, the King gives this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. The attack on 22 July 2011 on Utøya and the government quarter was a shock experience for Norway and for a whole value. 77 people were killed, and many people were injured as a result of the devastation. In addition to the human losses, the terrorist attack led to great material damage. A range of public etats, voluntary organisations and community of trust and life have taken part in the rescue and follow-up work. So sorry after July 22nd, we're together to bear. There was a national memorial marking on 21 August, and it has our other markings on Utya Island, in the government quarter and at Stortinget, as well as local settings. On 12 August, the government appointed the 22nd July Commission. The purpose of establishing the Commission is to be able to learn lessons from the events in order to enable the Norwegian society to be best equipped to avert and meet any future attacks, while at the same time taking care of key values in Norwegian society such as openness and democracy. Norway has received support statements from all over the world during this difficult time. At the same time, we are proud of the Norwegian people who, in the midst of the tragedy, have continued to show kindness to those who suffer out there. The situation is particularly dramatic in Somalia, where the drought comes in addition to the suffering caused by the long-standing conflict situation. Norway will contribute about 620 million. kr in humanitarian aid to remedy the disaster on the Horn of Africa. International economic growth has declined in the last few months, and external developments represent a significant insecurity factor for the Norwegian economy. Large and increasing government debt means that several of our main trading partners have to cut public budgets and/or increase taxes to ensure sound public finances. In many cases, fiscal policies need to be tightened up even if unemployment is high and growth is weak. Over the summer, the security of central government finances of some euro area countries and around developments in the United States has led to new financial market turmoil. Significant measures both at EU level and in the toughest frameworks in the euro area countries have so far not played a significant role in the markets. The most marginal countries have previously received crisis loans from the International Monetary Fund and the EU. In the U.S., politicians are struggling to agree on a plan that will correct public finances in the medium term. Both in Europe and in the United States, budgetary challenges are reinforced by poor prospects for growth and employment. What is happening internationally is important for the Norwegian economy. We are a small country with great international trade. The international financial crisis showed the vulnerability of particular banks to monetary and capital turmoil, the rapid spread of bank market confidence and the potential for problems in the banking sector to have very negative impacts on the economy in general. Norwegian financial institutions have strengthened their soundness and have achieved more robust funding in the last few years. Direct exposure to high-denominated euro area countries is low. Powers place great emphasis on following the situation. The best thing we can do is to keep order in our own houses and keep on pursuing a defensive and resilient policy. Norway Bank lowers its interest rate to a very low level in the wake of the financial crisis. It helped keep the activity of the economy going well. In view of the good economic development in Norway, since the summer of 2009, Norway’s Bank has set the interest rate at 1 percentage point at 2.25 pst. Between 2005 and 2011, total income in the municipal sector increased by 48 billion. 2011-kr. In 2010, income in the municipal sector increased by 8.1 billion. kr. In the first half of 2011, there were an average of 525,000 people employed in municipal administration, which is about 10,000 more than in the first half of last year. The unemployment rate in Norway has fallen in the last year and has remained quite stable over the last few months at around 31/4. by the labour force. The employment growth has continued until now in 2011. The government attaches great importance to promoting sustainable economic and social development. The main challenges for such development are international poverty, reduction of biodiversity, anthropogenic climate change and the spread of environmental pollutants. Norway is a driver in the fight against global poverty. In 2009, the goal of Norwegian assistance was to make up 1 pst. of gross national income, reached, and aid has remained at this level. In the wake of the financial crisis, greenhouse gas emissions in Norway went down. But in 2010 they continued to increase to the same level as in 2008. Over 70 pst. greenhouse gas emissions are the underlying economic instrument. Among other things, the Norwegian quota system is now an integral part of the EU quota system. The Nordic region is the main strategic area of foreign policy governance. The fact that the agreement with Russia on the demarcation in the Barents Sea and the Pole Sea took effect on 7 July of this year was a historic event. The agreement created a clear border for the Norwegian and Russian authorities, but also facilitates cooperation across this borderline. Furthermore, it still ensures good Norwegian-Russian cooperation on fishing in the Barents Sea and regulates cooperation on the extraction of possible cross-border petroleum occurrences. Afghanistan is still the main area of Norwegian military and civil intervention in international operations, now with special emphasis on transferring responsibility for security to Afghan regimes. Norway, with F-16 and staff, has important capabilities for the Libyan operation to comply with the UN resolution on the protection of the civilian population in Libya. The efforts to provide the personnel with the recognition and follow-up of their needs in international operations have been strengthened by the government’s presentation of the action plan ‘In service for Norway’ in May 2011. In the spring of 2010, the government presented proposals for changes in the income system for municipalities, and the changes were put into effect on 1 January 2011. The new cost key improves the cushioning of the variations in the involuntary costs between municipalities, while the other changes in the income system provide a smoother distribution, greater stability and a better overview of municipal income, and regional challenges are better addressed. The government has strengthened the loan and grant arrangements of the House Bank. In the spring of 2011, the Borrowermamma was increased by 5 billion. DKK to 20 billion kr, and the investment contribution to care and health care facilities has been significantly increased. In spring 2011, the government launched a proposal to complete the deployment and operation of Emergency Networks in mainland Norway as a whole. It will contribute to increased social security, enhanced preparedness and a safe and non-corruption radio link across the country. The government has followed up the national transport plan 2010–2019 in the annual budgets for both road, rail and coastal areas. In spring, the government presented an updated Joint Management Plan for the Barents Sea-Lofoten. Here it was, among other things. lay down new frameworks for the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten. As part of the implementation of the Cooperation Reform, the government has presented national health and care plans, public health law and municipal health and care services law. The kindergarten sector was financed as of 2011, and municipalities are thus responsible for the entire sector. For the seventh consecutive year, a new export record for Norwegian seafood was recorded in 2010 with a total export of 53.8 billion. kr. That's an increase of over 9 billion. Compared to the previous year. Norway is with it the second largest maritime food exporter in the world. The government has put in place a guarantee scheme for power-intensive industry for its power purchases under the Export Credit Guarantee Institute. The order has been set to a 20-billion-dollar frame. kr and debt financing to the power-intensive industry its purchase of power on long-term terms. The ESA approved in March 2011 that the guarantee scheme is in line with the EEA Agreement. The agreement on a single electricity certificate market between Norway and Sweden was signed on 29 June 2011. The Electricity Certificate Act was signed by Stortinget on 24 June 2011. The launch of the single electricity certificate market is planned on 1 January 2012. With a single electricity certificate market, Norway and Sweden are cooperating in the long term to achieve the objective of producing 26.4 TWh new renewable electricity in both countries in 2020. The benefit period for parental leave has been extended by one week to 47/57 weeks from 1 July 2011. The previous quota has been extended by two weeks to twelve weeks. Fathers in families where mother accepts disability pension have been entitled to take out parental leave for 12 weeks. The Presidency function of the Bishops' Meeting of the Norwegian Church is strengthened by the creation of a twelfth bishop in Trondheim. The government bases the rule of action on the use of oil revenues on budgetary policy. The rule of action provides for flexibility in budgetary policies that have been exploited both above and below the 4 pst path in order to stabilise economic development. Under the financial crisis, an expansionary fiscal policy dampened the economic downturn, while at the same time leading to the use of oil revenues at a level well above the 4 p.m. path. Similarly, after the financial crisis, fiscal policies have been retained, while activity has taken up and unemployment has fallen. In the revised national budget for 2011, the use of oil revenues, measured by the structurally adjusted oil deficit, was estimated at 112.9 billion. kr. That's 10.3 billion. kr below the expected return of the State pension fund abroad. Government pension funds had a combined market value at the end of the second quarter of 2011 of 3 245 billion. kr. Further developments in financial markets are still very uncertain, not least developments in recent times and we must be bidding for new periods of unrest. Experience from the financial crisis highlights the need for a broad anchoring of important aspects of the management of the State pension fund. The treatment in the Storting of this year's report on the State pension fund shows that there is a broad consensus on the strategy for managing our common savings funds. The index of consumer prices increased by 2.5 pst. from 2009 to 2010, while the growth adjusted for tax changes and energy-free products was 1.4 pst. In the first half of this year, the price increase from the same period last year was 1.4 and 0.9 pst respectively. The decline in employment in 2009 and early 2010 turned to a rise in last year. National accounts show that employment continued to increase in the 1st half of 2011. The oil price increased from approximately 450 kroner per barrel at the beginning of 2010 to about 550 kroner per barrel at the end of the year. The oil price has moved forward this year, and the average price so far has been approximately NOK 620 per barrel. Norway’s gross national income in 2010 was 2 502 billion. kr. In nominal terms, there's an increase of 8 pst. from the previous year. The external balance of operations showed a surplus of 310 billion. kr in 2010. That's 35 billion. kr higher than the previous year. Foreign trade figures for the 1st half of 2011 show that the export and import value of traditional goods was 10 pst. and 12 pst. higher than in the same period last year. The population in Norway increased by 62,100 in 2010. It's record height. Strong growth has continued in 2011. Well two and a half of the population growth comes from net immigration, but also high birth rates in European contexts and the increase in life expectancy made it to growth. Norwegian banks and other financial institutions have been better off from the international financial crisis and the subsequent financial downturn after 2008 than the corresponding institutions in some other countries. This has to be seen in the context of the fact that the activity of the Norwegian economy was thus not affected by the crisis, that Norwegian governance implemented effective measures, that the state finances in Norway are sound, and that Norwegian financial institutions are generally subject to good regulation and supervision. Following proposals from the government, Stortinget has decided to allow small limited liability companies to opt out of the audit of the annual accounts. The aim of the change, which was put into effect on 1 May 2011, is to contribute to reducing the administrative costs of the smallest companies. The government has evaluated the tax reform in 2006. The evaluation suggests that the tax changes have had the desired effect. At the Ministerial meeting of the Greenland Arctic Council in May, it was agreed to set up a permanent secretariat in Tromsø to be fully operational from 2013. An agreement on search and rescue in the Arctic was also signed. The government has conducted an offensive European policy based on the Soria Moria Declaration and the European Policy Implementation Notice. Through the EEA funds, Norway is making a major contribution to social and economic cohesion in Europe. The Government has submitted a Communication on Norway’s efforts for stability and development in south-east Europe. In March 2011, the government launched a strategy to further develop the relationship with Brazil within a number of areas of cooperation. In April 2011, the government presented a big message on the need to find common solutions to the two major challenges of our time, global poverty and climate change and contribute to new greener growth strategies in developing countries. In 2011, the government doubled its support for clean energy in developing countries. In January 2011, the government launched a strategic plan to ensure that the resolutions of the Security Council on women, peace and security are integrated into all our efforts devoted to peace and security. Through the membership of the UN Human Rights Council 2009-2012, Norway has contributed to strengthening the efforts of the UN for human rights and to increasing the effectiveness and impact of the Council. In the efforts of the government to achieve the Millennium Goals and contribute to better health for women and children, vaccination is one of the most effective instruments. The global vaccine alliance, with Dagfinn's board of directors, is the core wall of government's efforts in this area. The government proposes that the Norwegian contribution to the alliance be doubled to 1 billion. kr annually in 2015. The size ended after the vote and debate on 7 June of Communication No. 12 from the government on assistance to the Nordics abroad. The framework for the extra-richstone service to offer Nordics abroad is now well anchored. Semja, previously achieved this year between Nordic countries for a declaration of solidarity, is a clear expression of the will of the Nordic countries to develop and strengthen foreign and security policy cooperation. The government places emphasis on NATO as the central transatlantic forum for security and defence issues. Norway took an active part in the development of the new strategic concept that provides the alliance with a solid framework to address today’s demanding security policy challenges. Norway, as the leader of donor cooperation in the AHLC – the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee – has for many years played a central role in supporting Palestinian state formation as part of a two-state solution between the Israelis and the Palestinians. The historical upheavals in the Middle East and North Africa now make it necessary to reorient the Norwegian approach to the region. Norway has already supported the steps up to democratic forces in the area. The government has worked actively to make the UN more effective than the arena for international cooperation and for peace and development. Norway has a record of military observers and staff officers in a series of UN peacekeeping operations. Norway has been committed to peace in Sudan for many years. The referendum held in January in line with the 2005 peace agreement showed an overwhelming majority among the South Sudaneses for a division of the country. South Sudan was proclaimed an independent state on 9 July. The government modernises the defense in line with the current long-term plan, and the work is well done. The government is continuing its work on the purchase of new fighter aircraft. The size ended in June 2011 to purchase four F-35 for training purposes and to start developing the Joint Strike Missile Step 2. The government has continued a close dialogue with the EU in the area of security and defence policy, and the defence has taken part in the EU's rapid reaction force in the first half of 2011. The purpose of the government is to streamline and improve border guards. In June 2011, the Stortinge consented to the construction of new border stations in Finnmark. Regional population trends in Norway are positive. In 2010, 310 municipalities had population growth. In comparison to the number of municipalities, there has been no more growth throughout the 1951–2010 period. In 2011, the government continued the district lift, among other things. through increased funds to Bolyst and municipal food funds and by contributing to the creation of a new business environment programme. The Competence Workplace Selection came in spring with a call for action to improve the dissemination of skills jobs across the country. The government has agreed to the Joint on a better municipality development program. The development programme is a collaboration between the state, the local government sector at KS and the employee organisations. The aim is to develop the quality of the municipalities in the areas of sick leave, full-time/part-time, competence and reputation. The public election, which has gone through social housing policy, presented the resolution on 11 August 2011. About 125 000 households receiving the buffer received an additional payment in March 2011 to cover high electricity costs this winter. The positive developments in the Norwegian economy are reflected in the labour market. In 2010, employment increased, and growth has continued in 2011. Better access to jobs helps increase the number of people providing labour, including immigrants. In 2010, there was a net immigration of 42,000 people. Work has been the main cause of immigration since 2005. The overall level of action planned for the unemployed and people with reduced working capacity is 71,450 places in 2011. Wage settlement in 2011 was an intermediate settlement, and the parties became some through negotiation or ordinary mediation in most tariff areas. In 2011, the government continued and strengthened the area of action that is important in the fight against poverty. As of 30 April 2011, the qualification programme, which became a nationwide offer in 2010, had about 8 000 participants. An experimental programme has been in place since 2011 to identify measures that can reduce the amount of involuntary part-time and improve the individual’s ability to get into full-time work. Since its creation in 2006, the Working and Welfare Department has been through a required reform period that has influenced the day-to-day operations of the organisation. Together with increased unemployment in the autumn of 2008, the number of hours spent in the proceedings was increased. In order to improve the procedural capacity, the functioning of the ETA has been strengthened since 2008. A series of targeted organisational measures have also been launched. There has been a gradual improvement in the processing times. The Employment and Welfare Act currently has a very complex ICT portfolio with limited scope for better functionality and further development. The Ministry of Labour is therefore in the process of preparing a comprehensive programme for the modernisation of ICT in the Labour and Welfare Act. New rules on labour protection laws and public health laws aimed at ensuring better and more effective follow-up to sick leave were put into effect on 1 July 2011. A number of other measures are also being put in place which were negotiated in the IA Agreements that were renegotiated in 2010. The total sick leave in the first quarter of 2011 was 7.3 pst. of all annual works agreed in the quarter. That's an increase of 4.9 pst. from the first quarter of 2010. One of the objectives of the agreement on a more inclusive working life is to reduce sick leave by 20 pst. from the 2001 level. The sick leave in the first quarter of 2011 is 3.4 pst. below the level in the first quarter of 2001. Facilitating good and safe working conditions is an important tool in the government’s strategy for an inclusive working life. In August this year, the government presented a communication to the United Kingdom on employment, the working environment and safety in Norwegian working life. In 2011, the government continued its efforts to combat social dumping. The regional protection system has been extended to the reindeer industry and the hotel and restaurant industries. The government has sent a proposal for an authorisation scheme for reindeer companies to listen. The government is working on the agency directive. Social dumping is also a central theme of the UK Employment, Working Environment and Safety message in Norwegian working life. The government has put forward a proposal to the Storting on new disability benefits and old-age pensions. The most important proposals are that disability benefits should continue to provide a lasting income hedge and that disability benefits should be recalculated. The government has a strong focus on the safety of the petroleum sector and has, among other things, followed closely the development of the Deepwater Horizon accident in the Gulf of Mexico. The government has submitted a proposal to the Storting on additional promises resulting from the regulation of the basic amount and pensions in the population population as of 1 May 2011. This follows from new rules for the regulation of pensions in the population. The government has submitted a proposal to the Swedish Government for a new law on employment disputes. Regulation on the equivalent treatment of municipal and private kindergartens, which came into force from 2011, ensures that all existing private kindergartens receive municipal supplements. In 2011, the government increased transfers to private kindergartens by 92.5 million. kr to ensure these kindergartens in the future. Efforts to improve the quality of kindergartens have been reinforced. Competence enhancement measures have been implemented for them to be added. The effort to recruit more pedagogues for kindergartens has been continued and the number of pre-school places of study has been increased at the same level. Through the Education and Joint Education Communication, the government has looked at how the provision of training to children, young people and adults with the need for specific assistance and support can be improved. The government has launched a series of measures to improve the learning environment and find responses to bullying. All municipalities in the country are invited to sign Manifesto against bullying, and until now almost 300 municipalities have signed. The government-designated working group that would provide suggestions on how to deal with anti-semitism and racism at school delivered its report in 2011. The government is now following up the report. Through the Cultural Promise II, the government wants to help many more children and young people gain access to a well-functioning cultural school offering. The cultural school selection has looked at the quality of the activities, price and availability and how cultural school activities can work better together with the existing education provision. The Culture School Selection option will be followed up by various processes. The results of PISA 2009 show that Norwegian school is on track and that the trend has changed since 2006. At the same time, measures are being implemented to ensure that developments continue in a positive direction. Through the Imaging Communication Motivation-mestring-possibilities, an additional response to the youth stage will be directed through measures to strengthen the environment for learning and to make training more motivating, varied and relevant to pupils. New GIV is a systematic cooperation between national educational boards, municipalities and county councils to improve the implementation of further training. The Basic Skills Programme – BKA – provides grants for courses in reading, writing, billing and ICT for workers with weak basic knowledge. From the fall of 2010, the government has introduced a two-part course for primary school teacher education, a course towards 1–7. year-end and one against five to ten. year-end. New education has been boosted by about 13 million. kr in 2011, and the amount will increase to approximately 113 million. kr in 2014. After three years of recruitment, the number of students applying for a teacher’s education shows a clear increase. In 2011, it's almost 50 pst. more people who want to train as teachers compared to 2008. The government spends 50 million. in 2011 to promote cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration between universities and universities. The aim is to improve the quality of research and education through a stronger professional environment. In 2010, a new construction project was started at the Norwegian School of Commerce and a project for addition to Domus Medica at the University of Oslo, as well as a series of projects in progress. The University of Oslo celebrates its 200th anniversary in 2011. As part of the rehabilitation of university buildings in the center, the university's auditorium is finished as an anniversary gift from government to university. In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in the search for higher education. In total, the government has allowed funds for the creation of about 12,500 new places of study. When these are completed, the capacity of higher education will have increased by around 19 200 places. The government has established a climate research centre in Bergen and a multidisciplinary centre for climate and environment in Tromsø. The scheme of seven regional research funds was launched in 2010. In 2011, the government has set aside 219 million. NOK at the disposal of the regional research funds. The selection of experts on the achievement of good objectives in publicly funded research has settled the link between objectives, resources and results of this research. The output is now wide. There are new rules in the Housing Entry Act and the Disposal Act that make it safer to buy a dwelling under entry. There are marked changes in criminal law, so that investigation is mandatory in cases where children die abruptly and unexpectedly. A government-informed selection has made suggestions for changes to the jury arrangement. The report was delivered to the Ministry of Justice on 17 June 2011 and has been sent on a wide range of hearings. Proposals have been made for a separate law on arrest warrants in order to streamline the delivery of persons to criminal prosecution in the EEA area. The government has made proposals to reduce the minimum capital requirement for a limited liability company from NOK 100000 to NOK 30000. It would make it cheaper to set up a limited liability company and presented is an important measure to facilitate the creation of a new business. The police security service – PST – and the Oslo Police Emergency Team were strengthened by around 25 million in the context of the revised 2011 national budget. kr, e.g. to increase research and testing capabilities and a strengthened preparedness for serious events and counter-terrorism. The central crisis management apparatus was strengthened by 4.3 million in the context of the revised 2011 national budget. to repair the technical infrastructure of the crisis support unit. Fight against organised crime – a joint effort was made in December 2010. In December 2010, the government presented an action plan to prevent radicalisation and optional extremism and a new action plan against trafficking in human beings as part of a long-term strategy against all forms of trafficking in human beings. In March 2011, the government presented a new action plan on economic crime. The regulatory vigilance law came into force on 1 April 2011. Better basic education, stronger standards of good repute and more systematic control of companies operating on the watch will strengthen the legal certainty of those coming into contact with weights. A legal first line service, where the public can receive up to one hour of free legal assistance, is under investigation. The government has agreed to continue the process of providing Norway with new rescue helicopters and proposes to purchase up to 16 new helicopters. The staging proposition was made on 24 June 2011. The government will propose to abolish civil protection obligations as a service form and work to bring about a legislative amendment to this effect before the Stortinge in the autumn session. Remuneration transfer agreements have been concluded with Romania, Lithuania and Latvia. There are agreed amendments to the laws that facilitate the conclusion of settlement transfer agreements in the future. There are marked changes in criminal enforcement laws that allow those who do not pay their fines to carry out penal services in the form of social services instead of incarceration. The government has proposed changes to the laws to improve the legal status of young offenders when they are apprehended, through detention, the determination of appropriate criminal response and during the implementation of criminal sanctions. Since the autumn of 2009, the trend has been a marked decline in the number of asylum seekers to Norway. In the 1st half of 2011, about 4,650 people had applied for asylum, which corresponds to the level in the same period last year. As a result of the Libyan crisis, the transfer refugee quota was increased by 250 seats for 2011. Including ear-marked places in the quota already attached, Norway contributed a total of 340 places to remedy the situation in neighbouring countries and Malta. In December 2010, the Ministry of Transport granted the concession to Oslo Airport AS to build a new terminal 2 at Oslo Airport, Gardermoen. In 2010, 208 people were killed in traffic and 714 were seriously injured. Compared to the period 2000–2005, there is a reduction in fatalities and injuries per vehicle kilometre of 40 pst. In order to improve road safety in addition, speed will be reduced on nearly 500 km of road, and photoboxes will be deployed to measure the average speed of especially off-road routes. The dot load mechanism is tightened. Road traffic laws were amended in 2010 to treat alcohol and other drugs in a non-discriminatory manner. Following the bidding competition, the Ministry of Transport and Hurtigruten ASA entered into a new agreement for the Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route in the spring of 2011 for a period of eight years from 1 January 2012. The number of collective passengers continued to increase from 2009 to 2010. The government has informed the EU of its position on the third EU postal directive. Further handling of the case will be in line with the procedures laid down in the EEA Agreement. At the meeting of the Convention on Biological Diversity in Nagoya in October 2010, the countries agreed on a protocol on access to genetic resources and fair distribution of the proceeds derived from the use of these resources. This is the most important global environmental agreement after the millennium. In Nagoya, a new global objective of ‘effective and immediate action to halt biodiversity loss was also agreed in order to ensure the functioning of ecosystems in 2020 and to provide the necessary ecosystem services to people’. At the meeting of the United Nations Climate Change Convention in Cancún in December 2010, a package of decisions was adopted confirming the 2°C target and emission targets in the countries and providing the basis for further work on a binding climate agreement. It was also agreed that emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries will be part of a new future climate regime. Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from forests in developing countries were continued and further developed. A large-scale bilateral cooperation with Brazil, Guyana, Tanzania and Indonesia has now been established and support for strategic development and capacity building is being provided in more than 40 developing countries through multilateral multi-government funds. For the first time in history, all the parties on Stortinget are a few about the predatory game policy and that we are to have all the big predatory game species in Norwegian nature. The government has in the last year taken new steps and gained a lot of new knowledge about the state of Norwegian nature. In May 2011, the government adopted the five first selected natural species and the eight first priority species. As of August 2011, the government has protected about 54 551 km2 or about 16.8 pst. by mainland Norway following the fall of nature. Since the fall of 2010, a new national park has been created and one is significantly expanded, 7 landscape protected areas and 52 new nature reserves. In the period 2010–2011, a total of 26 installations with a total of 70 individual memories are peaced by cultural monuments. In addition, one cultural environment is at peace. The government is continuously working to establish peaceful and peaceful cultural memory. 18 National Protection Plans for the State sector are under work and will be completed in 2014. In March 2011, the Government adopted State planning guidelines for a differentiated coastal zone management, which means that the construction ban in the planning and building laws should be applied strictly in the central area where the pressure on the area is greatest. Changes in the outdoor laws have been made to extend and strengthen the rights of all persons, while taking into account the rights and needs of the landowner. For the first time, the government has set national expectations for regional and municipal planning according to the planning and building laws, to be implemented every four years. Expectations point to the importance that municipalities and municipalities should place in planning to help implement national policies. The government has established a new and holistic regulatory framework for radioactive pollution and radioactive waste. In December 2010, the government concluded a new agreement with business organisations on the reduction of NOx emissions for the years 2011 to 2017. The size decided in March 2011 that emissions of CO2 from the aviation sector shall be included in the climate quota system from 1 January 2012. There has been a significant financial effort on health services in the last year, and several receive treatment. The governance requirements of regional healthcare providers in terms of quality and patient safety in hospitals are strengthened. A national patient safety campaign has been launched to prevent and reduce unwanted health service events. The government has stepped up its efforts in the care services and followed up the agreement on the Health Plan 2015 by introducing the guarantee of dignity and the right to a decent service provision. The investment scheme for day-to-day care facilities has been changed to meet the needs of municipalities to find the best local solutions. A national strategy for the modernisation and coordination of central health registers and medical quality registers has been established for the next decade. VAT compensation schemes for voluntary organisations have increased by 212 million. kr in 2011. It's the biggest bet on this type of organization ever. A big message about digitisation of the radio medium has been submitted. The Eidsvollsbouw is now undergoing extensive rehabilitation for the 2014 Constitutional Celebration. The government has launched a process to relaunch the public concert activity in the Riks Concerts with effect from the second half of 2012. Parts of the funds for public concerts in the Rikskonsertane shall be transferred to the funding arrangements for musicians and organisers managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council. Parts of the funds shall be distributed to other concert forms in the Rikskonsertane, among others. to concerts in smaller places and other arenas. In 2011 it is distributed a total of 1,558.4 million. kr from the surplus in Norwegian Typing AS for sport purposes. A new agricultural agreement and a new reindeer management agreement have been negotiated, to which the Stortinget concluded in June 2011. The agricultural agreement frame is increased by 1 420 million. kr. The agricultural agreements continue to change the course of agricultural policy. A higher level of revenue has been provided. Agreements give priority to rural livestock and grain production. The clean-up contracts involve financial measures in the reindeer industry of 102 million. kr. The dinner selection was presented on 13 April 2011. The selection assesses the strength ratios of the value chain that are constantly changing and that such developments in favour of the trading sector would be detrimental to healthy competition for the benefit of consumers. The selection provides a number of suggestions for action. The report has been sent on a wide range of hearings, with a deadline of 1 December 2011. Norway and Spain hosted a European Conference of Ministers of Forests from 34 countries in June 2011. The Ministerial Conference adopted objectives and visions for further cooperation, and one agreed to develop a legally binding European forest agreement. The fish stocks in the Norwegian seas are in good condition. As a coastal state, we must manage our living marine resources and the ecosystem in a sustainable way to ensure sustainable high returns. The design of fish is irresponsible wasted with resources. In 2009, Norway, through the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, the FAO, received a proposal to introduce an action plan to reduce by-catch and discards in fisheries. This is the basis for the FAO adopting international guidelines on fish discards in February 2011. The government has given high priority to measures against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and other types of fishing crime. The systematic monitoring of the bottom of the sea in the northern regions of the MAREANO programme has provided administrations with important new and detailed information on nature types, underwater landscapes and biodiversity in the Barents Sea. The government is busy with safety at sea and oil protection. A State Preservation Service has been established for waters from Røst to Border-Jakobself and off the coast of South Africa. The towing emergency service has been strengthened in 2011 by one vessel in the West. The work of chopping up the wreck of the cruiser ‘Murmansk’ began in the summer of 2011. Further work has been carried out on the clearance of the ‘Erich Giese’, ‘Neuenfels’ and ‘Boardale’ wrecks. The basic silling of the container ship «Godafoss» outside of Hyler in February led to oil leakage. Immediately a state action was launched that appears to be one of the most successful state actions in terms of oil collection. On 1 June this year, new route measures were launched off the coast of the South and the West. The measure helps to strengthen maritime safety and preparedness through the fact that international risk traffic will now be sailing at a greater distance from the coast. The marine industry accounted for 62 p.p. of marine food exports in 2010 measured in value. The Norwegian aquaculture industry thus produced for the first time more than 1 million tonnes of seafood. The EU has adopted a ban on the placing on the market of a cell product, which was put into force on 20 August 2010. Norway believes that the ban is against WTO legislation and together with Canada has asked for the creation of a dispute resolution panel in the WTO. A joint panel for Norway and Canada was created on 21 April 2011. The government launched a strategy for economic development and green growth in June 2011. It's over 300 million. kr for the development and commercialisation of eco-innovation in 2011. The government's axes at Oslo Børs achieved an expected return of 8 p.m. in 2010 and the total value of the shareholdings amounted to 503 billion at the end of the year. kr. The capital of Statkraft was strengthened by 14 billion. kr in December 2010. On 1 April 2011, the Government presented revised guidelines for the remuneration of the tenants of companies in which the State is the owner. These changes were particularly restrictive in the guidelines on pension benefits and final wages and imposed new transparency requirements on reporting the rents of whole companies. In June 2011, the Stortinget agreed that the government could sell the Aksjane State has in Secora AS and SAS AB, and that the ownership of the State in Entra Eiendom AS can be reduced down to 33.4 pst. By the same token, the Stortinget agreed that, under certain conditions, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade may participate in the capital extensions of Yara International ASA and Kongsberg Group ASA in order to maintain the State’s ownership without any new permissions. The government has submitted a regulation regulating the use of private armed guards through amendments to the regulation on shipboard security and preparedness for terrorism, and the Arms Code. The changes took effect on 1 July 2011, and they are an important contribution to the Norwegian fleets being able to protect the crew most effectively against piracy. The Government has agreed to merge the Maritime Directorate and the Ship Registra as of 1 January 2012. The government has continued its work on environmentally friendly growth in maritime industries through the maritime strategy. Norway concluded a free trade agreement with Hong Kong on 21 June 2011 through EFTA. The government has proposed a new law on food preparedness. Laws shall ensure access to goods and services in the event of crises. The Norwegian ship monitoring satellite that was shot up in the summer of 2010 has been shown to work very well. The satellite makes it possible to keep track of maritime traffic on the open sea and is therefore an appropriate tool for maritime safety and the fight against environmental crime. The total electricity production was around 123 TWh in 2010, while consumption was around 130 TWh. In 2010, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate granted permission to water and wind power projects that could generate an annual total production of about 1 300 GWh. That same year, 54 hydropower projects and an extension of a wind power project were launched. These together produce about 950 GWh per year. Enova has concluded new renewable energy production and energy saving agreements corresponding to 2,4 TWh in 2010. The total contractual profit or loss for the period 2001–2010 is approximately 15.5 TWh, of which 5.8 TWh is final reported. Winter 2010–2011 was characterized by cold and dry weather and very low magazine filling. Therefore, there was a record high import of power into Norway, which was important for security of supply. For the government, it is crucial to put in place an adequately developed transmission system for electricity, and we are now ahead of a period of large investments in the transmission system. In March, the government concluded that the concession to Statnett to build the central network line Sima-Samnanger as an air line is solid. The floods of summer have shown that modern society is vulnerable to this type of natural event. It is therefore important to carry out long-term and systematic work to prevent injuries from flooding, erosion and escape. The government will send a big message about energy policy. As part of the basis for this message, the government has set down a wide-ranging energy selection to assess the long-term energy and power balance of Norway towards 2030 and 2050. To achieve the 2-degree target, measures are necessary to reduce CO2 emissions from both industry and energy production. The aim of the government is that Norway should be a transitory country for the capture and storage of CO2. Substantial resources are therefore spent on researching and developing the projects in Mongstad. The technology centre for CO2 capture at Mongstad is under construction and parts of the plant are approaching completion. The construction of the amine technology capture plant was completed in June 2011 and equipment testing is under way. At the same time, extensive work is being done on preparing and planning full-scale CO2 capture at Mongstad. A technology qualification programme has been launched that opens up several technologies in the planning phase. In February 2011, three research centres for environmentally friendly energy were set up in the field of socio-scientific energy and climate research. In June, the government presented the Storing Message An industry for the future – about the petroleum industry. The government wants to create a target-conscious bet to keep the output from the industry at a very high level for generations to come. The government has seen an impact assessment of the seas around Jan Mayen to open up the area of petroleum industry, and this summer has also begun to map sea areas around Jan Mayen. To gain more knowledge about the new areas of the Southern Barents Sea, one also has seismics in this area. Monitoring will continue next summer. In 2010 came 26 p.m. of total government revenues from the petroleum sector. Norwegian oil production has been gradually declining since 2001 and in 2010 was around 2.1 million. barrel oil per day. In 2010, the total petroleum production on the Norwegian base was 230.4 million Sm3 oil equivalent. About 43 pst. of Norway's resource base, estimated at 12.8 billion. Sm3 oil equivalents, are currently produced. The gas sales are increasing, and in 2010 Norwegian gas exports amounted to about 102.3 billion. Sm3. Gaseous increases are expected to continue in the coming years. The value of oil and gas exports in 2010 was about 500 billion. kr. The net cash flow of the State from the petroleum activity was 276 billion. kr in 2010. There is still a high activity in the petroleum industry. In 2010, it was invested for about 130 billion. kr on the continental shelf. It's about 25 pst. of total real investment in the country. The level of investment is high. In 2011, the expected investment of about 150 billion is expected. kr, and investments are expected to increase further over the years. TFO 2010, allocations in predefined areas, were granted in February 2011 and cover 49 extraction rights to a total of 39 companies. The 21st concession round was announced in June 2010, and in April 2011 24 licences were granted to 29 companies. The government has worked to ensure that children and young people have good balance conditions and opportunities to participate and exercise influence. The government has reduced a public selection to figure out the power and participation of young people. The selection shall deliver the award by 15 December 2011. In order to strengthen the child-resistance services in the municipalities, the government earmarked 240 million. kr to increase capacity and focus on knowledge and competence. The funds have been allocated to municipalities for 400 new positions and for skills-enhancing measures. On 1 September, the Children's Protection Panel, consisting of a professional environment and experienced people from child protection, provided advice on how to improve child protection. The government has strengthened its efforts to provide more poor children and young people in large cities with holiday and leisure activities. The government has submitted and approved proposals for amendments to the Child Protection Act on the extension of the use of police attestations in the field of child protection. Norway has delivered its eighth report to the UN Committee on Women's Discrimination. The report makes good sense for Norway to implement the Convention in the period 2006-2010. In order to promote participation and equality for people with disabilities, the government has presented a dedicated information and development programme for the period 2010–2013 aimed at people with developmental disabilities. The government has provided the Equal Opportunities Communication on equal pay, which discusses measures to smooth pay differentials between women and men. The government has worked systematically to ensure equal opportunities, rights and obligations for immigrants and their children and to prevent discrimination. In the spring of 2011, the government received two major awards, from the Brochmann Committee and the Inclusion Committee, which have assessed the integration work and challenges facing us, and made proposals for measures to improve integration. In 2010 there were about 5,800 refugees. The settlement of refugees has been high in 2011, but compared to 2010, there have been fewer people in the first six months of this year. The financial portal has been expanded with a new price comparison service for the transfer of money to the rest of the world, ‘Send money home’, and a service for the comparison of insurance services. It is consistent with the church agreement that changes in the burial law are made in order to better meet the needs of religious minorities and life-synorities associated with burial. On behalf of Stortingen, the President received the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, good colleagues! When the Stortinget was last gathered with His Majesty the King and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince, we were a sad and deeply emblazoned assembly. Well, two months have passed since Stortinget remembered the victims of the terrorist disaster on July 22. When we meet today at the 156th big thing, many of us experience that everyday life is so small that we are about to return. But we also know that the terror of July 22 will characterize us forever. We have conducted a local election campaign where representatives of Storting have also participated. We've been with local candidates around the country and not least received useful input into our work at national level. We all probably had hoped for a higher turnout than the 62.4 pst. which was the result of the year’s selection. But it is a pleasure to see that the results vary a lot from municipality to municipality. It proves that democracy works, and that there are local issues and candidates that determine what people vote for. Several local authorities are now writing history with many young representatives. At the same time, a large number of people elected with immigrant backgrounds are ready to make an effort for local democracy. This strengthens the representativeness. As magnification representatives, we will learn that not everything is quite like it was before. In the future, the size will understand that the government has demanding employment. However, we assume that these common practical challenges are addressed in such a way that the Storing in general, and the opposition in particular, are able to play their important role in our democratic system. The desire and willingness to ‘more democracy’ has been expressed by many teams since 22 July. The big thing, as the very bearer of Norwegian democracy, together with the government, has a special responsibility to fill this statement with real content. Together, we must further develop the Storting as the country's main political arena. And also in the 156th big thing, we have a lot of problems to do. The debt crisis weighs Europe down. Growth has been absent in many countries. Unemployment has stuck to a high level. We'll also notice this. During the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, the financial institutions were faltering, and now the economy of the countries is failing. It makes the challenges different. Norway depends on Europe succeeding, because this is where we have our main trading partners. We rely on our export-dependent business and our businesses to sell to, so that they can still create values and keep employment up. There is no more important economic indicator than low unemployment. What is happening in Europe is crucial for us. It challenges monetary policy and the ability to maintain a stable exchange rate and a stable interest rate. It challenges the role of wage policy in avoiding strange price increases, and it challenges our management of fiscal policies so that wage policy and monetary policy are not overburdened. An old saying says that ‘it’s going to be good for you to wear good times’. If we think we're invulnerable, then we're really vulnerable. Among the members of this room there will certainly be fresh discussion and shared opinions on how best to meet the challenges of the international economy. But that these questions have to be addressed, I think there is a broad consensus on that. The 156th magnification will also be marked by other major challenges. The size has been looking forward to the forecasting of climate policy. The background to the communication is a broad political compromise on a global theme. National consensus on future action will be a clear strength for the work on climate change. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to solve the many great tasks ahead of us, we gather in the old, good desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-03.ana.ud217e642	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
