ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e26	The representative Svein Roald Hansen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The representative, Mr Träldal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e34	I would like to put forward a representative proposal by Mr Harald T. Nesvik, Mr. Per Roar Bredvold, Mr. Träldal and Mr. Jon Jäger Gåsvatn to amend legislation on mobile slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e39	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e42	On behalf of the biggest representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tjäldal, Bård Hoksrud and I am pleased to propose that a comprehensive report be drawn up on a coordinated and forward-looking strategy for the Norwegian tourism industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e47	The representative Per Roar Bredvold will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e50	I have, on behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Torgeir Tjäldal and myself, the pleasure to make proposals on the sale of the properties of Statskog SF.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e55	The representative, Frank Bakke-Jensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e58	I would like to promote a representative proposal on behalf of the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Siri A. Meling, Jonni Helge Solsvik, Øyvind Halleraker and myself on a review of legal certainty for Norwegian fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e64	The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e67	On behalf of the representatives Bent Höie, Øyvind Halleraker, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I want to propose measures to strengthen the capacity and quality of the municipal midwifery.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e72	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e84	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. Then we start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e91	Norway has made a strong contribution to participating in the Libyan action. It is a contribution of strength that has been endorsed by all parties in the Norwegian Grand Prix, and I think it is important to underline this – precisely because it is about sending a support to our serving soldiers who are out there doing this task on behalf of the Norwegian authorities. So that consensus is in itself important, and I also have a desire to underline that from the pulpit of the Stortinget. That being said, it was yesterday and based on the comments made by the government, a discussion and many questions from the media related to who would lead the operations around Libya. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was very clear that you had to have a broad coalition, but a point of leadership. And then we've woken up today to the news that SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, expresses disagreement with that strategy. So the government party SV is now involved in creating an uncertainty about what has so far appeared to be a unanimous growth, a unanimous Norwegian political environment, in relation to how we are going to operate in Libya. I would like the Prime Minister to explain the government's view of this, as to who will lead the operations in Libya. In my opinion, it is unfortunate that SV's leader is the one who now in public space expresses the kind of disagreement, all the time the rest of the parties and the entire opposition have ended up on the government's line in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e100	It is gratifying that there is a broad consensus in Norway on the Norwegian participation in the military operations in Libya, which has a clear anchor in the UN Security Council. It is true that today there has been an extraordinary Council of State, and the government has decided to transfer the six F-16 planes we have registered to the military operations currently in progress. The Secretary of Defense has been given authority to do so, and in these hours they will be transferred to the US North Africa command, which is now responsible for the practical implementation of operations outside Libya, so that it is already in place. Both the political announcement – we expressed that at the meeting in Paris on Saturday, but now also through a formal decision, through a separate royal resolution in the Council of State – and the formal transfer to the US command takes place in these hours. Let me underline two things. One is that it means that the Norwegian authorities still have full political control, full transparency of what is happening, and also full participation in the staffs and decisions taken by the military command. But there is now a clear command for the Norwegian planes, and that is to be part of the US command that is already established. In addition, we stress that we are there to implement a UN resolution. We can participate in the implementation of all aspects of the UN resolution. We are concerned that there should be a broad alliance, and we are now working with other countries to establish political decision-making structures around the broad alliance. It'll go far beyond NATO. It's probably going to be a Monday meeting where we're going to start this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e111	I thank you for that clarification on the part of the Prime Minister. What I understand is that he says, is that the signals the SV leader has sent out in the media today are a double communication attempt, and that SV agrees with the government's decision to transfer the command in the first place to the American-led operation, but also possibly to a NATO-led command if it should prove to be the most effective way to do it. I would like the Prime Minister to confirm this, because it is, therefore, the government party SV is now involved in creating uncertainty about the Norwegian position. It is at least an unfortunate signal on the part of the Progress Party that I believe the Prime Minister would like to clear the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e118	There is a broad consensus in Stortinget. There is full consensus in the government. We have adopted the Royal Resolution this morning, and the command of the planes is about to be transferred to the US command. Then there is a discussion about how to organise the command in the future. It is ongoing in NATO and is ongoing among the countries participating in the alliance. It's quite possible that alternates will be drawn on the use of the command structures that exist in NATO. But what is important to us is that we both have this pointed command structure – it must have any military operation – and that we also have the broad alliance of Arab countries, where we have political consultation and decision-making systems that go beyond NATO, but also draw with several other countries. That's the full agreement. I would also like to stress that this is an important matter, and I think it is important that the Storting be involved. Therefore, I would like to ask that I come to Stortinget and explain more and more about this and the development of these operations in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e127	The size will, of course, facilitate such a presentation as soon as possible. There will be four follow-up questions – first Morten Höglund.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e132	A conclusion to the Prime Minister's answer may be that we are permanently choosing to ignore the views of party leader Kristin Halvorsen on central foreign policy issues, because at least for us it seems to be a blow to the Norwegian opinion, also to the relatives and to the soldiers who are going out. Is it not a problem – or does the Prime Minister think it is absolutely curative that it is the kind of different attitudes within government members?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e137	I believe that it is completely unnecessary now to construct problems and disagreements that do not exist. There is full agreement on what has been done, and there is full agreement on what is now being done. Not least for the Norwegian soldiers and Norwegian personnel who contribute, I believe it is important that we do not create unnecessary uncertainty. So there's a complete consensus about what's been done and what's being done. What Kristin Halvorsen has been concerned about – and I am also concerned about – is to stress that it should be a broad alliance. It has been the starting point for the UN all along, and it has been the starting point for Norway. What made it possible to have a decision in the UN Security Council was that the Arab League asked for such a decision. It is important that, in addition to key NATO countries, other countries participate in the operation. They participate in different ways, but it's a broad alliance. The broad alliance we are concerned with preserving, because we are absolutely sure that the chances of success are much greater if there is a broad alliance, and not just an operation that is perceived as a NATO operation – a Western operation against a Muslim country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e144	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e147	From the Right, we will also help to underline the broad political consensus that Norway should contribute to the Libyan action. It was absolutely necessary that Norway, as a responsible country, contribute to the fulfilment of the UN Resolution on Civil Protection. It is clear that it is interesting to get the Prime Minister's view on how a government party like SV now seems to be more concerned with US commanding Norwegian forces than with a NATO command – but now let it lie. A few minutes ago, it was announced that the United Kingdom and France are now gathering to take command of the operation. It demands the agreement of all NATO Member States. The question to the Prime Minister will then be, if this results in correctness: what will Norway's position in NATO be that NATO now takes command of the operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e157	We have close contact with our neighbouring countries. It is clear that NATO is working to be involved in some way, because the alternative to American command structure is to use the command resources that are in NATO. It's actually the only two command structures available to handle this type of operation. But I think where different concepts are used for commanding, it's about the military, practical implementation of an operation. What we are concerned about is that, while using NATO's command resources – as Norway is open to doing – it does not mean undermining or weakening the fact that there is a broad alliance that goes far beyond NATO, and that we are also trying to establish political bodies that go beyond NATO. Firstly, there will then be a meeting, probably on Monday, of all the contributing countries, and it is far more than just NATO countries. In addition, we are committed to a forum where all countries supporting the resolution can also participate. It's something other than a NATO operation, but then you use NATO command resources anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e164	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e167	I fully agree with the Prime Minister that there should not be any undue uncertainty about such an important issue here in the Storting, and we were actually completely unisoned in the Storing yesterday. That's why we were quite surprised, not to say provoked, that today in the media from a leading member of the government, there is a debate about whether NATO is going to play a role, not in the broad alliance, but in the command structure. Now the Prime Minister has stated that NATO can do that, and Norway will support it. I just want to ask the Prime Minister again to confirm that Norway is going into the discussion about the further design of the command structure without the kind of bindings that we heard from SV's leader on the radio today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e176	As I say, there has been a state council today where we have adopted a royal resolution, where we have both formalized the transfer of the six fighter planes, and we have said that we are now transferring the command to an American command. This will be the case until an alternative command is established, if any. The alternative to that is, for all practical purposes, some kind of NATO command. But I'm busy distinguishing a little bit between the question of military command and what kind of management the entire operation has, partly because basically, the UN is responsible for this operation. The mandate of the UN Security Council is that of the UN Security Council, which is the top political body responsible for the entire operation. That's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Item No 2: We are concerned that there should be a broad alliance, and that we should also establish bodies – meeting places – where countries far beyond the NATO community participate. Therefore, we need to separate what are command structures, where it is very topical that we use NATO command structures, from the political anchoring and management of the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e185	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e188	I am very pleased with what the Prime Minister is now saying, which is quite different from what we heard the Foreign Minister said last Wednesday. This is more value-based foreign policy, which we in the Left are concerned about and stand for. I want to ask questions about something more forward-looking, namely that Norway is now at war. That means we have obligations to our own people that we send to do a task on our behalf. We also have obligations with regard to the situation we are in. In Libya today it is said to be perhaps 250,000 people on the run in and out of Libya. There are gruesome scenes on the border, which we have been reported on, among other things. from the Church's Emergency Aid, but it also creates a great deal of pressure on Schengen and Italy and the border countries that this is about. So my question to the Prime Minister is whether he will be involved in the effort needed here, both from us who are facing the humanitarian crisis, and from the refugee crisis to which Schengen, Europe and neighbouring countries are being subjected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e199	I believe that what the Foreign Minister said in the Question Time last Wednesday is very good, because he stressed all the problematic aspects of this type of military operation. We've fully shown them. It's not easy at all to initiate military operations like the ones we've now undertaken. I think it was necessary, and it was necessary to do it quickly, among other things. to save the civilian population in Benghazi. If we hadn't started operations on Saturday, we would probably have had street matches in Benghazi. We had had great civil losses, and we had seen Gaddafi carry out the revenge he warned against the people who opposed his regime. That is why it was right to act quickly. This does not mean that there are no serious problems and challenges and many unanswered questions, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said last Wednesday. I think it is important that we address them, political and humanitarian. The question of refugees is, among other things: a humanitarian problem. Norway is among the countries that contribute most on the humanitarian side – 50 million. kr. We are prepared to continue to be very concerned about doing a lot in relation to the humanitarian situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e208	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e211	Let me start by saying that I'm glad that the Prime Minister has announced a statement in the Stortinget on Libya so that we can broadly discuss different situations – including the whole Middle East situation. I therefore allow myself to ask something else in this questioning. I want to start from a story I've told the Prime Minister in the past – the story of nine heavy psychiatric patients who have moved out of the Sandviken Hospital to a residence in Bergen, where they live from being heavily baptized, with heavy traumatic situations, now live almost without b-preparations and with normal, day-to-day tasks that they can master. The main reason why this situation has been addressed in two years is the way in which services have been organised through so-called ‘participating tour’. You have created normal living conditions because those who work there live together for 48 hours. Then they have one week off, and then they come back. It reduces the number of people with mental disorders to whom people have to deal. It creates peace, it creates continuity, it creates security, and it creates better mental health. This is an attempt by the municipality of Bergen. They have conducted several tests of the same type with different rotational organisation. The sum of this is that for patients and residents this has been an enormous improvement. Nevertheless, we have experienced that this government has decided that this is an exceptional state, and it is not enough that there is an exceptional state that the Labour Inspectorate should approve in order to have a trial, no, central trade unions should approve this model on a one-year basis in order to drive good health protection – a good help for people who have problems must therefore be determined by the central trade unions. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is it not soon time to see that this has to be decided locally and during the approval of the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e222	First, I would like to say that it is positive that initiatives have been taken in many places to test, experiment and develop new working time arrangements, alternative working time schemes, among others. in order to reduce involuntary part-time work, and also to provide better-adapted working time arrangements for specific groups of users, such as: within the health care system. Secondly, today’s work environment law actually provides for a good deal of alternative means of organising working time, but it requires that an important principle not be undermined, namely that there should be clean and good working conditions in the workplace, and that workers’ rights should be guaranteed, even if one has alternative work tours or shift tours. That is why, if new and alternative arrangements are to be sought, there must be an approval, it may be for the quality of the tasks, and there must be provision for rest periods. Among other things, we know that the number of errors will easily increase if there is too little rest between the guards. Therefore, there must be an authorisation system in place. This means that for a good number of trials — depending on their scope — alternatives can be accepted locally. For more extensive trials, central approval is required. The Fafo report, such as: is mentioned in Today's Business today, shows that it is very rare that if you have locally recommended a new agreement, it is rejected centrally, so that that report underlines just the flexibility of today's legislation. You need local anchoring and will normally also receive central approval if necessary. Then I would really just encourage the social partners to develop the whole good Norwegian model of talking together, finding good solutions, developing alternative schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e233	Thus, municipalities that have started to implement this have given up precisely because of the organisation and the veto right that this government has given to central trade unions. We want it to be neat. We want local trade unions and employers, and the Labour Inspectorate, to be able to go in locally and see that all the requirements of the law are met. But it must be a cross of thought for the Prime Minister to read the full report to Fafo, for Leif Moland, who has been the head of this survey, says that after following the efforts of the municipalities to reduce the size of small posts, this is the action that has worked best. In addition, this creates minor problems in combining family life and work, says this report. It's popular, it's better recruitment to these than to other parts of the care sector, and not least to recruit more men to work this way. It's even four good things -- it's not a cheek egg, it's a cheek egg plus -- to get to this. Nevertheless, the government has set up a process that stops many of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e239	What I'm concerned about is that we both ensure flexibility, opportunities for local adaptations, alternative working arrangements and at the same time ensure something that is very important, namely workers' rights, cleanliness, and not least quality, because if there are too long shifts, it can go beyond quality and increase the number of errors. That is why there is an access in today's law to make exceptions, and the exceptions and opportunities for local agreements can therefore be made by the majority without central approval. If there are major changes, the central approvals need to be added, but the Fafo report thus shows that it is rarely turned down centrally if there is a local agreement. So I think we're now creating bigger problems than it actually is. I believe in local diversity. I believe in negotiations, in party cooperation, but that this should be done in a neat way, where trade unions and employers agree on how this should be done. If they sit down, find good solutions, and especially if you have good experience, I'm sure that common sense will prevail, and that good alternative solutions will be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e244	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e247	It is not correct that this is unproblematic for the municipalities. Municipalities experience this as a major barrier in order to be able to initiate such schemes. It is a great paradox that this government has moved the approval of this as referred to by the Prime Minister as good, local, flexible arrangements, away from the public approval system, as the Labour Inspectorate, which is the Right proposal, and over to the central trade unions. The consequence of this is that people living in housing, who then experience enormously much more stability in their everyday lives, which leads to less use of coercion, less use of drugs, which gives more satisfied workers, nurses, caregivers, and who give less sick leave, live a life that is actually on the one-year derogation. This creates uncertainty for those who work there. It creates uncertainty for those who live there, and it creates uncertainty for the municipalities within those schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e252	I repeat that I believe that what is our common task is to find a code that allows us to combine two things: tidy, decent conditions for employees and minimum requirements for, for example. rest periods, so as to ensure the quality of users. It should be combined with – what to say – a changing working life that may require different types of work arrangements locally. That access is there today. Most of these arrangements are agreed locally upon approval by the Labour Inspectorate. Then there are those who are so extensive that central approval is required, and then the Fafo report shows that most people are accepted centrally. So what I think is the challenge here is that you get to the good dialogues locally, see what opportunities there are when it comes to combining safe employee rights with flexibility, finding solutions in dialogue with the trade unions, and then you get it done. I'm not always saying that's easy, but it takes a local anchor, and I'm in favour of it, and I'm in favour of those dialogues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e257	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e260	In this case, to which the main question refers, it is in fact that it has to be accepted centrally. The Prime Minister says from this pulpit that he has great faith in local diversity, he has great faith – I believe – that locals can uphold the rights of workers. At least I have very strong faith that a local trustee, along with his employees, is able to make the best decisions for his employees. I also expect the Prime Minister to agree. When we see that the way to organise it leads to better services, more satisfied employees, less involuntary part-time and more satisfied users, will the Prime Minister, with the belief he has in local diversity, facilitate, as long as there is a local consensus, that the Labour Inspectorate can determine the type of employment agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e267	Firstly, most schemes today are approved locally with the approval of the Labour Inspectorate. For most schemes, this is already the case. Then, for some, where there are major changes, a central approval is needed in order not to risk undermining the whole system of work environment regulations and working time regulations. According to the Fafo report, even for those systems that require central approval, most people receive a central approval. The point here is that there are possibilities. I believe that if there are challenges we are facing, it is that the possibility is being used too little, that we sit down calmly with the employee organisations, find good solutions that both satisfy the desire for flexibility and also provide a fundamental need for cleanliness and predictability in terms of employee rights, working time and, in particular, quality. These include: rest periods, which are also defined in the EU, which set clear limits on what can be done in relation to breaking them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e272	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e275	Participation is not the most common, either in the health sector or, for that matter, in the child protection sector, but also in the child protection sector, in some cases it is used. It turns out to be perhaps the very best way to run an institution, especially the small institutions where there aren't so many. That's a lot of good experiences. I may not think the Prime Minister takes very seriously the big barriers that are actually to get to such tournaments. As we heard earlier today, several municipalities have given up. My question to the Prime Minister is: Wouldn't it be better to create a system, a system, like the law, which, in the interests of the users, gave this opportunity? Of course, workers must also be taken care of, and this must be within the framework of a good work environment law, but it must be possible to sort it out as we already have experience of it, and it has been in a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e282	What we have today is an access to agreement. This access is used in different places and allows local arrangements to be made. I believe in any case that it requires that you agree locally. Otherwise, I think we can easily get into a situation where we really feel that some of the most valuable things in Norwegian working life, namely that we have neat, proper rules regarding working time, are being undermined. It will over time weaken the working environment in Norwegian working life and not serve anyone. But it's an access to agreeing things locally. I think the challenge is to use that access too little. If local authorities have problems with that – I do not know the examples to which the representative refers – then I believe that a reason is that they have not succeeded in agreeing locally. But then you shouldn't go on with it either, because you have to get a local consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e287	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e291	In the wake of the so-called Adecco case, the Prime Minister has said a lot of reason about both commercial and non-profit institutions in this country, which is an important part of the Norwegian model. I want to give the Prime Minister some insight into how things are going under his rule with regard to non-profit institutions. I asked questions here this fall about Oslo Hospital, who survived the Black Death, came to survive the government of Stoltenberg. The status is that Oslo Hospital now survives on artificial respiration directed by the diaconic hospital Lovisenberg, and it is uncertain how it goes in the long run. On Ashøy there is a great Russian institution in charge of the Blue Cross, which lost a bidding round in Health West in the fall. They returned with responsibility for employees, for buildings, for large pension liabilities and were forced to cancel. The reason from the Health West was not that it was poor quality. On the contrary, the Blue Cross was told that the Askøy clinic had better quality than those who used to offer it – but it was in the wrong place! We who have been to Ashkoy have some problems realizing that there may be some wrong place for anything, but what's even more strange, Prime Minister, is that the end of the show has become that the state health company has now taken over the Blue Cross clinic. They float in the same buildings, with the same people and with the same pension obligations as the Blue Cross had. It's just the Blue Cross that's gone. Then it was suddenly no longer the wrong place, but perhaps there was the wrong mark on the buildings. I am asking this question now, Prime Minister, because both the Prime Minister and the government parties here in Stortinget have gone a long way in promising these beautiful institutions new, better and more long-term and predictable framework conditions. I know the government has a job going on. The Christian People's Party is very impatient to see the results of that work, for while the grass grows, the cow dies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e302	Firstly, I would like to say that we are very concerned about facilitating NPISHs, and we are doing so through different measures and instruments. One is that we have significantly increased support for volunteering in general, primarily through a very favourable VAT system, which means a very strong increase in volunteering in Norway. Secondly, with regard to the purchase of services from both municipal and state care services, the main emphasis is on what is purchased from NPISHs. In the case of municipal care services, it is about 95 pst. under the authority of the local authorities. There are different municipalities that decide. Then it's in the strike 4 pst. ideal and 1 pst. in commercial terms. With regard to the purchase of services from state health enterprises, the percentages are slightly different, but still the main picture, I think, is 60-70 pst. of what is purchased is from NPISHs. So the main emphasis of what the public buyer of services from outside the government is from non-profit institutions serving households. Then there will be an assessment from place to place, from place to place, from need to need just who will get the tenders, who will get the contracts. That's because the needs are changing. For example, there were recent headlines in the media about some child-rescue institutions that had less to do. I understand that can be a problem, because jobs are being laid down and a business is being closed down, but the background is that you've decided to put more effort into home-based child protection, more into foster homes. Then we sometimes have to go through the difficult process of converting from one type of business to another type of business. Then it is the users, the children, who are crucial – not the institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e309	I know that the Prime Minister can hold such flaming appeals about the importance of non-profit activity in Norway, and we share those assessments. But my question is about the practice that emanates under the rule of the government of Stoltenberg. Then I am not talking about municipalities in which Stoltenberg does not like the board, but I am talking about the state health companies that the government of Stoltenberg, the Minister of Health, owns and governs. There is no policy to change agreements as the needs change – because the need for this institution on Askøy is evident when, after squandering the ideal owner, the state takes over as a walking group – but it must simply be that one is ideologically after the ideal institutions, when one can confiscate operations in the way that has happened on Askøy. I think that the Prime Minister should at least promise to go into this matter and ask whether this is the policy he will stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e314	I am absolutely sure that the state and health companies are not looking for the ideal organisations. On the contrary, the state and health businesses are engaged in cooperation with the non-profit organisations. This does not mean that anyone who wants to do so can continue their contracts and contracts, because there may be different needs and different reasons for reorganising their activities. But there's a growth in the total activity of Norwegian health companies, and there's a growth in what health companies buy from services. What we're doing is we're going to see if we can draw up guidelines in an even better way to work together with the voluntary and non-profit organizations, among other things. by looking at whether we can make new and better quality requirements, so that there is even more competition on quality – less on price. We're looking at the possibilities of extending the contract periods. This can be good for both users and institutions. And we're looking at how we can design demands for buyers of health and social services that are more consistent with the desire to promote non-profit institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e321	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e324	To be honest, I must admit that I have some doubts as to whether the Prime Minister has a particular interest in what is now happening to the non-profit sector in this country. When he can stand here and say that he is absolutely sure that the public wants good cooperation with the non-profit institutions, and one after the other is being squandered, with the blessing of this government, my question is: is there anything in today's practice that the prime minister sees as problematic, or are the ideals that you adorn when you get some Adecco case going on, and the parties really flourish?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e329	Non-profits do a very important job. This is why we have increased — significantly — support for volunteering in Norway, and that is why we have also been committed to continuing cooperation in many areas. Institutions such as the Diakon home, the Lovisenberg hospital and other non-profit institutions/institutions are very important. We are totally dependent on them, not least within e.g. care for the elderly. So we say we're open to looking at how we can change the guidelines for some of the things that are about buying services from private, both commercial and non-profit. What we do include, among other things, look at, as I say, measures to create better quality criteria, so that more emphasis is placed on quality. We are willing to look at questions related to guidelines regarding the duration of the contracts, because we see that it may be a problem if it is too short. And we're willing to look at how we can have some rounds reserved for the volunteer organizations. It is also accessible today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e336	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e339	There is a tendency for drug users to be seen as a homogeneous group. In fact, they are as different as most people – have different ballasts and different additional challenges. The Progress Party believes that the diversity of public, non-profit and private institutions is important and necessary to meet different people. The fact is that more and more institutions, both nonprofit and private, have given many people a lot of opportunities and a drug-free life in the past, and diversity and expertise are being lost. Does the government at all see this happening? And does the government at all have any plans to save that diversity and the expertise that we've landed around?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e346	We see that we are working with ideal and private people all over the country, and that they are doing a very important job. We've also seen an increase in e.g. stay in private hospitals and institutions – there has been an increase since 2007. So it goes up, and it goes down, with different institutions, but the crucial thing is that they contribute significantly. But we cannot create a system in which the consideration of the institutions takes precedence over the consideration of the users. Within e.g. child protection is a major conversion to smaller institutions and more home-based services. Then there will be a decline of some institutions. So we've had a pretty big geographical conversion of some rehabilitation institutions to get more rehabilitation on, among other things. The West, where there have been few rehabilitation institutions. It's a conversion that's an advantage for patients, who don't want to live so far from home, but it can be a disadvantage for some of the institutions that are then given fewer assignments. But we have to choose patients over the institutions. Then there are some institutions that lose jobs because they don't meet quality criteria. So I want the volunteer to contribute. I'm very concerned that we're going to have it in place, but we can't let the institutions go in front of the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e355	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e359	If the Prime Minister is concerned about drug addicts, he should note that at 31 December 2010, there are 3 562 drug addicts seeking treatment in line. The waiting time has increased in the largest health region, Health South-East. The addicts need the places that are laid down under this government. Duedalen Blue Cross Treatment Centre, Russorg of the Salvation Army The Door of Hope, Russorg of the Salvation Army on Heskestad, Russorg of the Salvation Army LAR-Rogaland, Blå Kors Hauga in Råde, BUE Foundation etc. – all these institutions have been laid down under this government. This means that the fine words that Stoltenberg brings here are not worth anything – either to those who are addicted to drugs or to those who run institutions. On 9 June 2010, a unanimous rally asked the government to set up a sample to work on the framework conditions of the non-profit organisations. In the previous question hour, Councillor Aasrud said that she will not put down such a sample. Does the Prime Minister have greater respect for the Storting and will he grasp what a unanimous magnificence has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e364	So drug treatment is one of the areas where private and ideals play a very important role. Here I have, for example. the number of the West of Health, since there are many examples from the West of Health. There are private ideals – non-commercial institutions accounting for about 80 pst. of the total daily capacity and approximately 60 pst. of outpatient services in the rural area. When it's as heavy an entry as 80 pst. of the daily capacity and 60 pst. of outpatient services here, it is clear that this is an expression of an important role played by non-profit institutions. It doesn't mean that it's always the same institutions, but that means that overall, the nonprofit institutions have a very large proportion of the provision in the care of drug users. The overall offer within the care system has been expanded, we will continue to expand it, and I am absolutely sure that we will also use NPISHs a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e373	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e376	There's cross-political agreement in this room that we work for the same, and good, offer for all the sick and all the elderly who need help. In recent years, we have repeatedly discussed concerns about the lack of qualified staff, especially in the care sector. Partly high use — and illegal use — of overtime and institutions operating at 80 pst. unskilled, show that we are already lacking qualified personnel. This will be further strengthened in the coming years. This too has been a cross-political agreement. Care professionals have some common features. They are dominated by women, the employees work in sectors with virtually zero competition, and they have had a much lower wage development than the private sector. The party notes that the tripartite cooperation, to which the Prime Minister always refers, has not been able at all to eliminate these differences in pay. How long does the government continue to pursue a monopoly policy that undermines the formation of wages in these large and important women-dominated professions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e387	I agree that it is essential to ensure people safe and good care and care that we have enough people who want to work with care and care. Without that, we're out of chance. That's why it's nice to see that the targets we've set for recruitment are our targets. We said in front of the previous big shots that we would have 10,000 new annual jobs in care, there were 16 000 new annual works – we overfilled here. Many of the annual works benefited younger users — disabled people and traffic damage — but something also, of course, went to strengthen care for the elderly. Now we have set ourselves a new goal: 12,000 new annual works by 2015. Only during the first two years of the escalation period have we received 5,500 new annual works – based on preliminary figures for 2010, but that is the best estimate we have now. So we are ahead of the plan, also in the case of new annual work in care during this period. This shows that because this government has been willing to spend the large amount of money on the big tasks, such as care and care, rather than new billions of taxpayers, we have been able to get many, many thousands of new year's jobs in care and care – a much stronger growth than we have seen before – and it also turns out that we succeed in recruiting. There is also a good level in terms of the proportion of employees who have vocational training. In terms of wage formation, I am very sure that this is what we are going to negotiate in the wage settlements, the social partners are responsible for it. I believe that last year's wage-fixing shows that it is possible to obtain a good equal pay profile within a proper framework. The government wants to continue to contribute to it, but it has to be within the framework of soundness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e398	I find that the Prime Minister is unable to provide good welfare without simultaneously talking about tax relief. But I would like to remind you that the number of new employees in the care sector does not necessarily mean that there are qualified staff. We have institutions running at 80 pst. unskilled. Now I was concerned that we would get qualified personnel in place. Then I think we have to get more men into this profession. Young people today are quite conscious of salary levels within the different occupational groups, and I would assume that if we are to recruit at all young people for the health and care professions, we have to raise wages. I note that the Prime Minister has to negotiate. It also said Gro Harlem Brundtland in his government statement in 1986. And then you might have negotiated completely. I ask again that the Prime Minister come up with something more concrete about how he will solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e405	First of all, we've strengthened our educational capacity. We have now seen an increase for two years in a row when, for example. for the application for health-care professionals training, and the vast majority of the new posts are for those with vocational training — nurses, health professionals and others with vocational training in the field of health and care. And we have a lot of new posts. We've got 16 000 new jobs in a period when we promised 10,000. Our overfilling is an expression that we have actually succeeded quite well in providing more heads and more hands for care in Norway. Wages and salaries negotiations are to be taken into account in the wage statements, but I would like to stress that in the last ten years the real wage growth – including in the public sector – has been up to 30 p.m., so the purchasing power after one has deducted from the price increase has increased by about 30 p.m.. in the last 10 years. This is due to good wage-fixing and good economic policy, which means that all groups, including in the public sector, have had a very strong wage increase in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e414	There will be two follow-up questions – first Laila Marie Reiertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e417	Work environment laws have been discussing much of the latest time, in particular Chapter 10, which deals with working time decisions. Here it has been broken by rather large dimensions, both in private and in public health. In my civil life as a nurse, I have often been in the situation that one has used up the 200-hour limit for overtime. This is probably a current situation today. The challenge then faced when patients and employers need it is whether we should break the work environment law in order to take care of patients, and thus comply with the patient rights law. For me, this has always been a simple choice. I broke the Working Environment Act, so that patients got the help they needed. My question to the Prime Minister is: Would the Prime Minister also have broken the Labour Environment Act if he were in my situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e424	I am aware that very many people are in jobs where they can get in a situation where they feel that they have no choice. I understand them as, for example, is on a watch, and then there is a message of sick leave, and then the choice is either to continue on that watch and take care of, for example. to patients, or to follow working time regulations and then go home — but then experience that there are irresponsible conditions in that institution. This is why we also experience in some public health institutions that the rules have been broken in terms of working time regulations. The numbers we have now got on the table show that there have been 50,000 breaches of working time regulations. It sounds like a lot, and it's a big number, but it's relative to 15 million guards in this area, so 99.6 pst. the guards have been carried out in line with the legislation in force, i.e. a very small proportion of them have been carried out in total in breach of the legislation in force. It's definitely part of them that's in the situation you're referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e431	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e435	The Prime Minister is well aware that Norway has a gender-based labour market, and that many women with a high level of public sector competence come out less economically than those with a similar level of education in other sectors. In particular, nurses and teachers are affected, who have slowed down in wage developments. The right has called for a public sector pool of skills in the years to come, leading to a pay gap for the training groups. It would be a good investment to ensure recruitment and staffing, to maintain highly skilled labour and to improve the quality of public services. So it's worth taking higher education to work in the public sector. How does the Prime Minister address such a pool of skills for women in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e444	I feel that at least there is agreement between the Right and the Government that we should have a responsible payroll framework, that is. that we need to agree on the overall framework, what is a sound wage growth in Norway. Of course, it can vary a little bit from year to year, but it's been 3 pst. and up to 6 pst. recent years in nominal wage growth. Within such a framework, I believe it is fully possible to achieve a good profile that ensures a good gender profile and other purposes we want to pursue within a responsible financial framework. When you have had 30 p.m. in recent years. real wage growth — after deducting price increases, wages and salaries have grown by 30pst. – it is clear that within that framework it is fully possible to achieve a desired redistribution, if you wish. The problem in Norway is that if one group is to have a relatively more view, it is another group that needs to have a relatively smaller view — and it is a little difficult to agree on which groups to have a relatively smaller view. Not everyone can get a relatively constant view, because that's the same pay increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e451	Then we go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e454	Yesterday, the Workers' Party issued a «Reading Guarantee for all second-class children». It pleased the school party Right, and we hoped that it would mark a final farewell to the old school policy of the Workers' Party, where it was an independent goal that the children should not learn to read and write in the first class. But it should not be more than 24 hours before the Prime Minister kicks his legs under the same guarantee. Because when the prime minister is going to tell us how, he says we need to get more school leave into school. Then all of a sudden it's about football, about dance and violin. When the prime minister of the same VG interview is going to elaborate on how it's going to be more leisure time by school time, he points to the parents. The Prime Minister believes that parents who organise school leisure in the evening can suddenly do so in the daytime. And he points to part-time workers. I thought it was a goal for the Prime Minister that more people would work full time. And he points to early retirement. I thought the Prime Minister thought it was a goal that more people would work longer. I think we'd get far in Norwegian school if we let parents be parents and teachers be teachers. Because it's actually a problem that there's too few people who want to be teachers in high school and maybe do the most important job: to teach our kids how to read, write and calculate. Does the Prime Minister see that there may be a link between the priorities of the government, namely to have apples rather than competence training and school leave rather than school time, when one sees that there are too few who want to do the important job in primary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e465	I believe that it is an expression of serious political weakness that the Right needs to create a scare picture that is not at all correct, and to convey totally incorrect information about what the government and the Workers' Party stand for when it comes to school policy. What the government and the Labour Party stand for when it comes to school policy is just to bet on learning more in school. That is why, after we took over, we have taken care of, among other things. six more lessons at school, in the subjects of reading, mathematics and English. We have strengthened significant teacher training, because the key to a good school is better teacher training. We have taken a boost for the continuing training of teachers, and therefore fortunately we now see a better recruitment to the teaching profession. But there is no difference between being busy for several hours, for example. reading and understanding the importance of schemes such as homework or a good school leisure system after having had lessons. There's no contradiction between those things and being concerned with knowledge. On the contrary, we are in favour of schemes as teaching aids, because we believe that developed in a good way, it can contribute to more learning, a better school. That's why it's also nice that we now see better PISA results. Norway is second best in the Nordic region in terms of reading, and we are among the top ten in the OECD. We're not satisfied with that, but it means a recognition of the work that is now being done in Norwegian school, that we're at least progressing. This is due to years of effort from several governments, not least because of the work that was started under Trond Giske with the promise of knowledge after we started the Quality Committee with Astrid Sögnen as the leader. We need knowledge in school. That's why we have more hours, better teachers, more teachers, and we need to take new steps to strengthen the knowledge content of the school. We see no contrast between that and being concerned with a good school leisure system or good homework arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e476	To the extent that the Prime Minister realized that I drew a scare picture, it is the Prime Minister who has a problem, because I quote from what the Prime Minister has said in today's edition of the VG. I've shown what the government is actually doing, and I've shown the consequences of what the government is doing. If we look at what the government is doing, it's a reality that the government has given priority to spending hundreds of millions of dollars on apples and pears rather than investing in competent teachers to teach our children, and that the government has prioritised voluntary, assistant-controlled homework rather than compulsory school hours in primary school. The right extended the hour by twelve hours. It's great that the Labour Party government has expanded it by five, six. But there are clear consequences of the policy being pursued, and the result is that there are too few who want to teach our children. Then my question is, what is the government's strategy for more people to want to teach our children how to read and write and calculate in primary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e485	That's exactly what we're doing. Compared to the previous government, when the Right was responsible, there has been a significant increase in teacher training in this country, both in the field of depression and specialisation. There has been a strong commitment to the continuing training of teachers, and we have an increase in applications for the teacher's school, so just the presentation that we don't bet in school is an expression of a black paint that doesn't dress Right. That was point 1. Point 2: So we've been focusing on more lessons, but we're saying that, for example. educational assistance is an instrument to contribute to more knowledge at school. We can't see any contrast between homework and having more focus on knowledge and content in school. Point 3: I think it’s all right to eat apples and pears in school. That's very good. But we have used the large amount of money, among other things. Using billions of dollars, over 40 billion. kr, more on the municipalities, which has led to them cleaning up schools, employing teachers and strengthening the school to a much greater extent than what we saw during the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e494	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Henning Warloe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e497	Yesterday at the Labour Party School Conference, Marianne Aasen, who is responsible for the Party's school policy, said that the results of the national tests must now be used more actively and no longer be put into a drawer, and she called for more active local school politicians. It should probably be in the Labour Party that more active local school politicians are needed, because in the Right we do not at least lack such around the municipalities. However, the main tool for local school policymakers is knowledge of the results of national tests for each school. Is the Prime Minister aware that these results are actually kept secret today? Does he know that local school politicians do not get insight into the results of each of their schools? Can the Prime Minister here today promise that the results will now become public, so that they can be actively used to improve the work of each school in each municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e504	We have significantly improved the system of national tests. When we took over, there was a full fight and a very big problem with the handling and implementation of the system of national tests. We have set up a system of national tests that are well-established at school, and school owners and school institutions have access to those data in a way that helps them to improve school performance. We're concerned not to facilitate ranking. We don't think that's an advantage for the school. We're dedicated to using those results in a way that actually allows us to help improve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e509	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e513	At the same school policy conference, the Workers' Party wanted to relieve the municipalities of responsibility for curriculum work, and thus also the possibility of driving quality development locally. There is a special message in a municipal election process. Trondheim is in the same municipal election year the Labour Party exhibition window. There is the rapporteur, Rita Ottervik, of the Labour Party. My impression is that the District Council of Halvorsen believes that Rita Ottervik is best suited for managing the quality development of the Trondheim School. But one can interpret it so that the Workers' Party believes that the State Council Halvorsen is better suited than Rita Ottervik to manage the same quality development in the Trondheim School. Can the Prime Minister explain whether the Prime Minister has the greatest confidence that Rita Ottervik is in charge of quality development in the Trondheim School, or whether the Prime Minister believes that it should be left to Kristin Halvorsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e522	I have great confidence both in the Council of State, Kristin Halvorsen, and in the rapporteur, Rita Ottervik, and I am absolutely sure that a good school will be established in an interaction between central politicians – government politicians and local politicians. We both need, and all levels have to be occupied with the school. That's point one. Paragraph 2: We believe that we should continue to have local development work. Point 3: The Labour Party has not taken a decision yet, but it is true that it is part of our debate in front of our national meeting. When it comes to creating new curricula, because in the case of creating new curricula, if you want to have as extensive time spent in each school as we have now, because we're afraid that it can be at the expense of time for learning, we haven't concluded. It is going to be a discussion at the National Labour Party meeting. Then we're going to make our decisions, and then we're going to go to their elections when the decisions are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e531	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e534	The Party's school-political spokesperson and committee leader Marianne Aasen said after that school conference that the Workers' Party should now focus on what the research was saying. The chairperson of the Committee and the undersigned met with some others who headed the Education 2020 research programme. They had a very clear message, and it was that several hours of school neither increased learning nor increased motivation. Nevertheless, we see that the Prime Minister's great conclusion, wrapped a little bit close to the violin and dancing and the spear, so it's going to sound a little more pleasant, just that there are several hours in school that are the answer, and the way to all day school. The major challenge for the Norwegian school debate is that both the Labour Party, as a major player on the left, and the Right on the right, believe that there are several hours that are the right answer in Norwegian school, when the research shows something else. Is it so that the Prime Minister disagrees with Marianne Aasen that you should look at what the research says can produce good results in school? Or do you once again want to ignore it and go because there are several hours that are the right answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e541	I mean, the most important thing to get a better school is the teacher. That's why everything we can do to get better and more teachers, the key. That is why we have strengthened teacher training – depression and specialisation. That is why we have also strengthened the continuing training of teachers. But that's not all we should be concerned about. We're also going to be concerned about other things. Norway has traditionally had quite a small number of school hours, especially in primary school, compared to many other countries. We have thought it would be right to increase it, among other things. to strengthen teaching in Norwegian, math and English. We've done that in this period as well. But then, as we learned at the school conference, we also have an idea that if we are able to make good offers in connection with school, such as: school leisure and homework, it can promote learning and not undermine learning. Even better if we can make sure that some of the leisure activities that children and young people attend in the evening can be done in connection with the school. I think that's good for the children and not least for family life, because the children get more time with their parents. But we listen to the research, and research gives us a clear message, that the teacher is the key to a better school, and we fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e548	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e551	The Prime Minister said that the teacher is the most important thing to get to a good school. The Prime Minister replied to the previous main question that the big money should be spent on the important things. This government has spent the money on the following things: 993 million. SEK per year on hourly extension, SEK 241.3 million. SEK per year on bananas, 462 million. kr every year for unskilled teaching assistants. But in the continuing training that the Prime Minister boasts, one third of the places are available, because the municipalities have too poor an economy. We know that by 2020 there will be a shortage of 18 000 teachers in Norwegian school. This is a huge challenge. My question is therefore: why does the Prime Minister spend the money on the things he does not think are important, namely unskilled tutors, bananas and lessons, with teachers we do not have?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e556	First of all, it's a little bit strange, because what the representative forgets is that the biggest amount of money we spend through the municipalities. When we've given over 40 billion. kr more in income for municipalities, a large part of it has gone to pay for schools, teachers and efforts in education, so point 1, there is money going to school, but through the municipalities, and that is where the biggest money goes. So point 2, as well as what's mentioned, we have, for example, increasing the number of places in the teacher's school and improving teacher's training. When we're for more hours, it's because we think the school needs more hours. In addition, I notice that there is now full rift on the civil side. First, representatives from the Right come up and criticize me for not increasing the number of hours enough, and then the representatives from the Left and Christian People's Party come and are opposed to increasing hours at all. So it would have been an advantage for this debate if you could agree on what you think is wrong with the government's policy, whether it's too many hours or too few hours, because somehow you're going to gather about an alternative. I hope we never see it – we'll make sure it doesn't become practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e563	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e575	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative Oskar J. Grimstad to the Minister for the Environment and Development, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 12, from the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen to the Minister of Justice, has been withdrawn. Questions 13 and 14 from the representatives of Henning Warloe and Jon Georg Dale, respectively, of the Minister for Research and Higher Education, have to be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who has been away. Question No 19, by Mr Torgair Tåldal to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 23, from Mr Solvik-Olsen's representative to the Minister for Oil and Energy, the questioner is absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e600	‘One of the main reasons for the high school dropout is lack of apprenticeship after leaving school. Although in the public sector there are many employees in job categories with a professional background, the number of apprentices in the public sector is lower than in the private sector. Does the Council of State believe that the establishment of more public sector apprenticeships should be part of the government's and the Grand Duchy's work on reducing secondary school dropouts?»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e612	First, I would like to say to Tord Lien that I am very pleased with the raid that the Progress Party today has on apprenticeships in the public and especially state sector. It's an old SV button from the opposition. We like to share it with others, because I am very happy that the searchlight is directed at the job that the state and the public are also responsible for getting enough apprenticeships. We have 3,000 students this year who have started a professional education that has not been able to complete it with an apprenticeship, which they would have thought, because we can't get enough apprenticeships. Then it's essential that we manage to get a new social contract with business, because it's in their own interest that we have enough apprenticeships. But the state and the public must also stand up. I think in many state businesses you can really have more imagination about what kind of apprenticeship places you can set up with. Unfortunately, the state sector is much more well organized than it was in the past. But also in those kinds of jobs, you can imagine that you can have apprenticeships for more than one field of study. What we're now working on is to make sure that we have clear demands for the different state enterprises, based on the governance we have, when we're going to tell what state enterprises are going to do, where this by contributing to more apprenticeship places is very carefully underlined. We're going to follow it up, so that's one of the points that all state businesses know that some of them are expected to be checked on and that they're looking at afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e621	It is with pleasure that I notice both that the Council of State has come to realize that there are several government councils that are invited to answer questions in the same direction today, and that the Council of State is now clear that more can and should be done. The enterprises organised in the NHO alone make available approximately 30 pst. of the apprenticeship places we have — a number far higher than the total share of the ‘labour force’ would indicate. In today's Question Time, we have heard that the government has the ambition to increase the number of annual jobs in the care sector by a total of 12,000 new annual works. The Council of State believes that it is possible to do so without the availability of more apprenticeship places in relation to, for example: health and social sciences?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e630	No, it won't be possible if you can't get a combination of giving unskilled adults the opportunity to take their professional letters, because there are many unskilled people working in the care sector, and getting more people to choose the health and care profession and get an apprenticeship. Most of these concrete jobs are at the municipal level, and I know that the next question goes to the municipal minister, and then there will certainly be a theme there. If I'm going to make up a little bit of a state state, we've now asked you to identify the potential of multiple apprenticeships. There is a cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge and the FAD. This survey shows, with some reservations, that there is a significant potential to attract a few more apprentices in the country. About half of the state establishments reported an increase potential. The largest educational establishments in the state today are the Defence, the Railway Agency, institutions in the university and higher education sectors and in the transport sector, and together make up nine out of ten apprenticeships in these enterprises. We're going to follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e637	I just want to say that it is no coincidence that the Minister of Defence has not been invited here today. It's true that the defense has for many years done a very important job of having apprentices in many of its departments, and we have to give them credit for that. The other administration has a lot to learn from them. Speaking of examples of where we need apprenticeships: the cooking profession is one of the subjects that have some challenges. As far as I know, the government – like the Stortinget – has its own canteen, so it is not just office people in the administration either. I want to underline one more thing, and that is that business cycles often hit businesses hard, and therefore also apprenticeships. It does not do so in the same way in the public sector, and therefore it is important for the public sector to increase its involvement. I look forward to bringing together the accumulation and government to concreteise the plans that the Council of State, Halvorsen, is now putting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e646	I can add that in 2011, we have included a common entry in the enterprise's letter of allocation, with the aim of increasing the number of apprentices. So the expectations of our businesses regarding the responsibility they're going to take for the apprenticeship situation are considerably intensified. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to be very close and expect this to be followed up, and we're going to use the imagination a little bit outside of our own core business to see where you can set up with apprenticeships.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e655	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘One of the main reasons for the major decline in secondary education is the lack of apprenticeship places after leaving school. Despite the fact that there are many in the public sector in job categories with a professional background, the number of apprentices in the public sector is lower than in the private sector. What will the Council of State do to increase the number of apprenticeships in the public sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e664	I am very happy that Åge Starheim addresses this question. This matter was recently an important part of the discussions at our national meeting last weekend. It is a very important matter for the government, it is an important matter for the business community, and it is an important matter for the municipalities. I fully agree that post-school learning places are important, and it is important that the public takes its share of responsibility. Local authorities need good professionals with the right skills to solve the welfare tasks for which they are responsible and for which they will be given an even greater and expanded responsibility now when the Cooperation Reform process is phased in. An important job for the government is, therefore, to provide both a high quality training and that many people choose a professional training course. There will be a great need for skilled labour in the future, both in the private and public sectors. Developments in the number of teaching places have been positive in recent years, but, as the Minister of Knowledge said, there are still challenges – too many people don't get the place they want. The government of the Minister of Knowledge has taken initiatives towards the social partners into a renewed social contract to increase the number of apprenticeships. In connection with this work, a working group has been set up in which the municipal sector, at KS, is also represented. The tool to stimulate municipalities to receive more apprentices is under discussion in that working group. I am very busy that the municipalities are increasing the number of apprenticeships, and there are good examples in municipalities that are exemplary here, and this also makes it easier to recruit their organisations. For access to skilled workplaces, a challenge in parts of the municipality of Norway is something I am particularly busy with as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Local authorities must be attractive jobs in order to attract the right skills, and the creation of apprenticeships is a way of making themselves attractive. Under the leadership of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and in cooperation with the KS and the employees’ organisations, we have launched the ‘Sammen om een kommune’. This is a development programme to support locally-initiated projects and actions to generate knowledge and good examples for use by all municipalities. «Competence and recruitment» is one of the challenges for the parties to work together in the programme. It will be a good venue to highlight the use of apprenticeships as an important part of a good and forward-looking recruitment work in Kommune-Noreg. When it comes to concrete actions, I refer to the Minister of Knowledge as the Council of State responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e681	I hear the answer from the Council of State saying that this is an important matter for the municipalities in order for them to solve their tasks. Then there is a paradox that the government has been in power here in the country since 2005, and this is no new problem. This is a situation that has been like this in all the years that the government has been in this country. It is amazing that one has not taken any more initiatives and has worked to do something about this problem at a much earlier time, when one has had the opportunity to do so. When we hear the Council of Education say that there are 3,000 people who haven't had apprenticeship places, it's almost unlikely that this hasn't resulted in a long time ago ringing bells and a real catch up with them and doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e686	I don't know if the representative Åge Starheim is wrong, or if he doesn't want to hear what I said in my answer. Because what I said was that we've got this together with the social partners, together with KS, which is the municipal sector's organisation. Important discussions are taking place, and they are discussing concrete measures, and developments have been positive for the last few years. It hasn't been like we've been sitting around without doing anything about it. So I want to respond most strongly to the claim made by the representative, Åge Starheim, saying what is right, that both the government and the party I belong to have been the drivers to get the practical subjects out, get the practical subjects back in, get the electoral profession into the school, and thus also get better recruitment to these disciplines and sytems so that those who take the training will get good apprenticeships.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e691	It is often said that if you want a thing to take a long time, and that it should happen little, you should set a selection down. I understand that the Council of State and the government have worked on this. But when we are informed that there are 3,000 people who do not get apprenticeships, and when we also know that in a short time, when the Cooperation Reform enters into force on 1 January 2012, there will be a lot of people in that field of work, I find it strange that one has not noticed that there has been a faster progress in the work of sewing because the state, the municipalities and the county councils have taken this more seriously and have done something to take care of the apprentices, so that they can come out and get their professional letters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e696	I'm recording that a person is trying to create the impression that the government hasn't done anything. I still mean it's wrong. It is also the case that where we meet the local government sector in different contexts, we have been occupied with, among other things. apprenticeship places and more inclusion of municipalities. I'm going to continue with that pressure. In my contact with KS, I am fully aware of this, and I am also very much overconfident that KS and the municipalities themselves see the recruitment challenge that they have, and do something about it. Because they're the ones responsible for this. We need to facilitate this, we need to find measures that make it even more attractive. We're in the process of doing that, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e705	‘In these days it has been 10 years since Norway received the rule of action. The left considers that the time has now come for an evaluation of the first ten years of the rule. The Minister of Finance is in the process of evaluating a sample to advise on model and methodology choices in the Ministry of Finance. I note that there are now increasing numbers of people who call for a sample to be set up to check whether the oil money has been used after the intention or whether changes should be made. What does the Council of State think of such a proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e712	It's an important and interesting question that's being asked here. It gives me the opportunity, at least within a limited time frame, to draw some long lines in that context. The size treated in 1974 St. meld. 25 for 1973–74 on the oil industry in the future. There struck a certain number of important principles that I think there is reason to remember, first of all that oil resources should be the property of the people and thus also subject to popular control. To carry out oil policy, a Statoil was established as a state-owned company. One said that one would use the revenues to create a qualitatively better society, one said that a significant part of the oil wealth would be invested abroad, that only a small part would go to consumption, and that one would at the same time have thoughts about what happened after the oil age was possibly over. Then one also assumed that oil revenues would be used to balance fluctuations in the economy, i.e. a precursor to the rule of action that came almost ten years ago, which we can refer to as the 4pst rule. When that matter was dealt with in the 2001 Stortinget, the entire Financial Committee and the Stortinget joined the main economic policy objectives of the Stoltenberg I Government: work for all, fair distribution, further development of the Norwegian welfare society and sustainable development. At the same time, considerable emphasis was placed on using the action space to increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Then a certain person can have different opinions about what are the best measures to support value creation and growth. For example, I would say that investing in the labour force of today and the future is one of the most important things we can do to strengthen growth capacity and the potential of the economy. Therefore, kindergartens are important; therefore, primary school and education are important. Then there are many different views about economic policy both inside and outside the Storting. There may be an illustration that there is no fasitant response to what is good or desired use of oil money or other public revenues for that matter. The size must be set, the government has to choose. What I'm concerned about is that the political role in the management of these large resources must lie in the Biggest and in the elected bodies. In this sense, I do not think it is a good idea to create an external sample that will in a way assess the content, well and well of the policy. I am concerned that we should anchor the decision on how this money should be spent, in the Storting, and anchor it in what was the important principle from the outset, that it should be under popular control on the basis that this is the people's property.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e727	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer. I wish you could cut a sample like that, but it won't be like that. I also noticed that strengthening the growth capacity of the economy. I did not focus on Stortinget in 2001, but – I hope I refer correctly now – the increased values would be used for lower taxes and taxes for business, improved infrastructure, and measures to bring about new knowledge through research and development. Has it been like this? I think about it in concrete terms with tax relief for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e734	If you see this period as a whole, it has in one area, for example. major changes occurred, in parts of the property tax. This means, of course, that some have received an increase in the tax, but at the same time have, for example: a large number have either been exempted from taxes on wealth or have received a lower tax. One also did something about the personal tax during that period, which helped to increase the supply of work. So it's like we're investing more now in infrastructure, transportation, than we've ever done before. Research appropriations have increased sharply in recent years, while at the same time emphasis has been placed on increasing bets on kindergartens and education. So all in all, one in my opinion -- there are different political views about it -- has used these funds in a good and sensible way. If one takes the whole story from the early 1970s, I think we've met one of the main goals: to build a better-quality society, which appears both in public welfare and not least in women's participation in employment, as an important part of that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e743	I thank you again for the answer. The left is particularly concerned with value-creating tax laws, which the Minister of Finance has certainly brought with him. I would like to quote the first year of Öystein Olsen's governorship. There he says the following: ‘The authorities have used the space for action to implement standard increases and to increase expenditure in a number of areas. On the other hand, priority should be given to measures that strengthen productivity and growth in the longer term, including fiscal adjustments, which seem to have come to the fore.» Does the Minister of Finance share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e755	I think it's important to stress that one of the most important things we can do to build up business competitiveness and productive capacity is to pursue a long-term, healthy, sensible and good economic policy. Norway has done so, and it is noted. In meeting people from business, I am often reminded that what should be the prime task of the Minister of Finance is to keep the economy in order. That's the one. The second is the further development of what has also happened during this period, the cooperation between the parties in the preparation of income and other important issues, which means that Norway has a very productive economy. We have Europe's lowest unemployment rate and among the highest participation rates in Europe, while we also see that production has risen faster in Norway than in other countries. All in all, I believe this citizen that we have a policy that needs to build up under business and the ability of companies to produce in and from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e773	This issue has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development, who is addressing it. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e780	‘One of the main reasons for high school dropouts is lack of apprenticeship places after leaving school. Despite the fact that there are, in part, many employees in job categories with a professional background in the department and the underlying offices, fewer apprentices are admitted to the country than in the private sector. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Ministry of Transport with its agencies contributes more to increasing the number of apprenticeship places than is the case today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e787	The work on multiple learning places and the improvement of implementation in further training is a high priority. Continuing training is the most appropriate platform to be equipped to participate in the labour market. Good trade union workers provide a viable and well-functioning social and business life. There will be a great need for skilled labour in the future, both in the private and public sectors. An important work for the government is therefore to ensure that there is both a high quality of training and that many are well qualified for vocational training. It is important that central government takes its part in the responsibility for multiple learning places. In 2010, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs mapped out the potential for more apprentices in all central government agencies. The survey shows, with some exceptions, that there is potential for more apprentices in about half of the state's activities. In order to be responsible for government activities, the government has agreed to include a common entry in the 2011 letter of award with the aim of increasing the number of apprentices. The number of apprentices by subject shall be provided in the annual reports. In the light of the monitoring and follow-up of the activities of the annual generalisation, developments will be followed up in the governance dialogue between the department and the enterprises. We aim to increase the number of apprentices in central government. Following the transformation of the former NSB, Posten and the Swedish Aviation Agency into limited liability companies, the number of registered companies has fallen monthly with a professional background in the offices of the Ministry of Transport. The same result is found in the establishment of the production company of Vegvesen as a limited liability company. Both the department itself and the etats are highly recruiting staff with training beyond continuing schooling or vocational training. The railway station is currently the only one of the etatons that operates the manufacturing industry itself and needs apprentices to a greater extent. At the beginning of the 2010–2011 school year, the railway station had a total of 117 apprentices in the field of railway, signalling and energy/contact line. At the same time, the State Road Administration had five apprentices in the field of ICT, while the Air Safety Authority had an apprentice in the field of office. In recent years, the railway system has increased the number of apprentices both to meet the increased activity when it comes to the development and maintenance of the network and because there is a high age average of current trade union workers. The railway works continuously assess whether it is possible to attract more apprentices. The limitation in the number of new apprentices is primarily due to the need for experienced skilled workers to carry out their daily tasks at a time of high railway investment and at the same time to train. For the department and other agencies, there are small possibilities to incite or increase the number of apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e802	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Everyone agrees that this is an important task. We know that many of those who go into these professions are people who both like that it smells asphalt, and know how to build rail rails – not sit in school and learn about it in theory, but be out learning in practical work. I want to challenge the state council a little bit, because when you look at the railway mechanics subject, it's just about 60 pst. Which is given space, by train electricians, there are 66 psts, and on the welding subject there are 42 psts, that is relatively few. In addition, we know that within telecom operators it's down to 43 pst. That must mean that there is a great potential, which I want to challenge the Council of States to be a little more clear. Although the state is not running everything as a government anymore, after all, a good deal of state enterprises are 100 pst. owned by the State, where the Council of State is a rather central actor. I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit about what she thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e811	Let me first give the honor to the Advance Party because they have raised this matter. This is an area where the government is busy, and which is very good that there's a lot of attention around, precisely because it's probably a little too many elephants who experience a theoretical school. The government will come back to a more practical school in the base of the ball. So Hoksrud's example. I'll bring all of them back to the different departments. I think that the reason why we're talking here is not even higher on the Railway Agency's side, although they've increased in later times, is a combination of doing work here, and at the same time, a guide to apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e818	It's very good that the Council of State takes these things back. We know that we have huge problems in front of us on the transport side, which means that there will be an enormous need for both people to do this, people with professional skills and people who are trained to do the job. Because the Minister of Knowledge said that the government has given some clear leadership in this matter with apprentices, and since the Council of State is a general assembly in a number of state companies 100 pst. owned by the state, I could imagine knowing about the council that the General Assembly has brought this up in concrete terms in those companies as part of the treatment, precisely because state companies are going to have a lot of trouble getting more young people on apprenticeship contracts. When we see that private business goes far ahead of the state, we still have a big challenge, and then it could be good to know if the council has taken it up concretely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e827	That's the answer. The letter of assignment was also named from my side. It's one arena. The control dialog, on the other hand, is a different location. A third, which can also be used more by me as a state council when I'm out, and by the representative Hoksrud and others, is asking different companies, whether they handle asphalt or there's other work being done: how many apprentices do they have? It has its effect. It also creates remarkableness in its way. It also happens that we meet companies where we can praise them unilaterally for taking this work seriously, and more people have to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e836	The question is: «Between Mongstad and Kollsnes in North Hordland a new power line and new road connection are planned. Both projects include the five municipalities of Lindås, Meland, Radøy, Askøy and Eyegarden. Both projects have common objectives for completion in 2016. The possibility of coordinating the projects so that earth cables can be used on the whole or part of the power line is great, but requires action by the overall state authority. Coordination can bring great socio-economic benefits. Will the Council of State take policy initiatives to achieve coordination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e845	I refer to the Minister for Oil and Energy's answer of 3 March 2011 to question No. 943 from the representative of Sortevik. The representative points out that the new powerline and new road link can be combined between Mongstad and Kolsnes, and asks whether the Minister for Oil and Energy will take the initiative in order to further define and assess this. In the answer, it's going to be something. done good for the road project Cross-connection and its management. The conclusion is that it is up to the Associated West AS to assess whether coordination is possible. There is a company, the Liaison West AS, and Hordaland County Council meets as an observer on the board. The Swedish Road Administration has appointed a person to be contacted by the company. The project is not included in its plans and no state policy decisions have been made about the project. On a general basis, I think it is positive to see whether coordination between road and power development is possible, although it may have its challenges when it comes to practical implementation, such as: high voltage cables in tunnels and bridges and other operational conditions. I can mention that there is a cooperation between Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorates – NVE – and the State Road Service regionally when it comes to further planning of the Sotra connection. I argued that the same coordination could be assessed for the State Road Administration's work on the Mongstad-Kollsnes project, if this is a request from the county council of Hordaland that weighs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e856	I am well aware of the answer from the oil and energy minister, who instead of taking responsibility points to one of the actors in such a problem. This does not show the overall willingness for coordination. One of the many points in this very coordination case is that the road project in question — therefore also questions to the Minister for Transport — can provide Bergen with significant help in reducing transit traffic to and from the west, which is currently using E39 over North Hordlandsbrua and driving via the Bergen Centre. This relationship alone suggests that national policy-makers should engage in coordination as part of reducing traffic congestion in Norway’s second largest city. I recall that Bergen has major challenges related to transit traffic. I therefore repeat the question: Will the Minister for Transport take the initiative to trigger a good coordination effect between road construction and power supply building?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e865	So in this concrete project, there is a country road that is not part of the county's plans, where state policy decisions on the project have not been made. But I can repeat what I said, that I think for the first time in general that it is positive to see if coordination between road and power development is possible, knowing that there may be special challenges associated with it. Let me also say that the same coordination that is now taking place when it concerns the planning of the Sotra connection, I think can also be appraised when it concerns Mongstad-Kollsnes, if the warden wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e870	Let me show you that, in the Question Time a week ago, I just challenged the Minister of Finance to coordinate large projects. One of the last things he said was: ‘Yes, where there are opportunities to gain from the interconnection of large projects.’ Coordination and coordination are important, but it is also extremely difficult. It basically requires someone to do something. Often, the parties point to each other and sit still, without anything happening at all. This is where the government and the governments concerned in the areas of possible coordination have a special responsibility. That is why the challenge for the very Minister of Transport is again, because this coordination project includes an important road project which can therefore solve major transport and road problems in the region of Bergens: will the Minister of Transport take the initiative for coordination, or will she concentrate on others?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e880	I mean to think that I have also been asked by the representative of Sortevik about the responsibilities associated with different types of roads, where it was just an independent point to hold on to the responsibility, and where it was a matter for the government to give the county councils responsibility for several ways because they could see regional development more in context. That's why the county now is a four-fold weightier than the state. So Blackevik says it's a connection, and it's E39. When it applies to that part, I will check the matter a little bit more closely. But I firmly believe that what is the county council's responsibility should be the county council's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e891	‘In Oslo University Hospital, 17 charging sites were closed in 2010 and 12 new places are planned to be closed in 2011. This is done for, among others. funding 13 places in the Rusakutt reception, leading to an increase in the total supply of this group. What is it in the patient base that makes the Council of State consider it appropriate to reduce the number of detoxification sites in the area of exposure of Oslo University Hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e898	The specialist healthcare service shall assess the health status of the drug addict and the right to necessary health care on the basis of a referral from a doctor or social service. If the patient is entitled to or needs detoxification, this shall be offered within a reasonable period of time. If the patient’s condition is so severe that there is a need for acute detoxification or detoxification, this shall be offered without undue delay. It is the responsibility of regional health establishments to provide sufficient capacity in the provision of drug addicts. This applies to immediate assistance, detoxification/charging and follow-up. Health South-East reports that there were 65 detoxification/detoxification sites in Oslo at the beginning of 2010. Now in 2011, there are 40 charging points in Sinsen, and there are 13 daily places at the Rusakutt reception, which was established in 2010. The co-location of the reception of Rusakutt and the detoxification departments in Sinsen is a significant professional strengthening of the offer of emergency and detoxification in Oslo. In 2010, two to three separate observation beds were established for drug addicts at Oslo Medical Care. Health South-East reports that in 2010 16 new daily places for short-term treatment and 16 daily places for young addicts were also established. No person in need of acute detoxification or detoxification shall be rejected. On a similar question from the representative Höie in the previous Question Time, I replied that addicts can also address themselves directly to the Rusakutt reception without referral from a doctor or social service. Health South-East therefore considers that the overall offer in Oslo in the field of drug and addiction treatment has been strengthened from 2010. I perceive the feedback from Health South-East so that they closely follow developments, in order to ensure the necessary capacity for the emergency and detoxification services in Oslo. No one in need of detoxification or emergency aid, as I said, shall be rejected. The government is very concerned about ensuring people with drug problems an accessible, qualitatively good and individually adapted treatment provision. I want to follow closely the developments in Oslo. At the same time, we know that many challenges remain in the drug field. Therefore, we will come back to Stortinget with a big message that addresses issues of capacity and quality in the overall provision of help to people with drug problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e913	I thank you for the answer, and I have heard so much of this in the past – that the drug field is strengthened, that it should be followed closely, and that no one should be rejected. But then the question has to be whether the Minister of Health believes that all these concerns and all the criticisms that come from employees and users who see this, and who feel this on the body every single day, are signals there's nothing to care about. Or is it that the Minister of Health could also imagine talking to someone other than the representatives of Health South-East? For those who sit in Health South-East, obviously are not on a wavelength with those who are at street level – to say it raw and brutal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e918	When the question covers the scope of the offer – at least initially – I almost have to answer it. I believe the offer of drugs has been strengthened. And of course, when I say that I'm coming, it's important, because we know that there are many addicts who need treatment. We can just look at the numbers. Then we see that there are several people who are entitled to the necessary health care, and there are several who are being treated. So we know that this is an area where there's not just one part in the chain that has to be in place; all the points in the chain have to be in place. If the specialist healthcare service does its job alone, it may not be sufficient to help the addict throughout the course of treatment. That is why I am concerned that we will succeed in this, and that is why we have also given very clear messages to the specialist health service through mission documents and business meetings that this is a priority group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e925	I find it very difficult to understand that fewer places should be seen as a reinforcement. Now it is the case that many people get a detoxification/fee, and then they are released straight out on the street again without any follow-up, on which they have to return to a new detoxification before treatment. If it is to be understood that treatment should be given more quickly immediately after detoxification, so as not to detoxify a few to three times before treatment, we can agree that it is a strengthening, but as the situation is per day, it is not perceived by users as a strengthening. There are fewer places – that's a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e930	If we just count the number of beds, it's not sure that gives a proper picture of the overall treatment situation. Again, it is necessary to assess in each health business the way in which treatment is organised, of course in line with national leadership. The representative instead asked if I was willing to talk to other people. I'll do that, of course. This is a field that I think is very important. It's a group that's very vulnerable, and that's had too bad follow-up in the health care system for very many years. Therefore, it is so important that they have the same right to health care as that of all other patients. It is important for me to have it communicated, and it is important for me to stress also to health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e941	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Smoking is a risk factor for many diseases, including: cardiovascular disease. Despite this, smoke-weaning medicinal products are not covered by the current reimbursement scheme. Other countries have already introduced free or subsidised medicines. The Directorate-General for Health has recommended that the possibility of reimbursement should be opened after the current blue prescription for smoke-removal medicinal products. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make such medicinal products eligible for reimbursement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e950	Smoking is the main cause of early death and loss of fresh life in Norway. Reducing the proportion of smokers is the most important single effort we can make to improve public health. There is therefore a need to strengthen the end-of-smoker work done in the healthcare system. The objective of the National Tobacco Prevention Strategy 2006–2010 was to halve youth smoking and reduce the proportion of smokers in the population to less than 20 pst. We have achieved this goal, and it also shows that our actions are effective. However, there are still 700,000 Norwegians smoking daily. I have therefore started working on a new national tobacco strategy. In preparing for this work, I invited the World Health Organisation to evaluate the tobacco prevention work in Norway. Important feedback was that the smoking weaning work is limited, that the offer is not available and that the quality varies. This is therefore part of what we look at further in the work on a new tobacco strategy. No reimbursement is currently granted for medicinal products for smoking cessation above the BIP. Medicinal product subject to medical prescription § 14-14 provides that medicinal products for the treatment of nicotine dependence cannot be granted a pre-authorised refund. The National Knowledge Centre for Health has summarised research into the efficacy and safety of medicinal products for smoking cessation. They conclude that such medicinal products increase the probability of being smoke-free after one year and that these products can be defined as cost-effective compared to no treatment. I have asked the Health Directorate to submit proposals for a national plan for tobacco withdrawal. The provision of medicinal products is only one of many measures. Other important measures include guidance from the prescriber, dentist, health centre and health centre, and smoking end-groups and the smoking phone, to mention some examples. Reimbursement of tobacco-removal medicinal products is not necessarily the most important measure to reduce the proportion of smokers. About two thirds of those who have stopped smoking have done so without using any tools. Others need both guidance, support and medicines to cope. In a new tobacco strategy, we will assess which measures are most effective and what can be done to strengthen health care support for smoking withdrawal. We will also consider changes to the prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e967	I thank the Council of State for the positive response, that this is now being considered as one of several actions. I very much agree with the Council of State that this is one of several measures. It is also positive to know that the measures that the government has taken – and that we have launched in recent years, perhaps more parties as well – actually work. That's one of the most important areas, I think, we can work on in the future, in terms of public health, not least. It's a cross of thought that the state pays an incredible amount as a result of smoking, but we're not willing to give reimbursement for the means that can help get people to stop smoking. I look very positively at the answer and do not really have so many follow-up questions, but perhaps one: does the Council know if there are many other countries that have experience in giving free drugs for smoking weaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e976	As far as I know, there are other countries that do it, but I don't know the details of how you've done it. After all, we've done a preparatory work here and have this in constant review. Then we have to consider whether this is what we want to give priority to other measures, for example. mass media campaigns, much better targeted guidance. I am absolutely convinced that it does not help to give anyone a package of medicines if they are not motivated, and if they do not receive guidance next door. And then we have these health centers that help people to both quit smoking and change in lifestyle, which are now in 100 municipalities around the country, which I have very much faith in as a good tool for getting better public health, and which can also play an important role here. This is actually a lot more a question of where we're going to put the money, because there's no doubt that if we're going to get these drugs in, there'll be huge costs associated with it, costs that might have been used better in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e983	It will cost a lot of money. At the same time, it's almost 80 billion. Every year in Norwegian society, it is precisely to treat people who have quite serious diseases associated with their smoking. I also agree with the Council of State that it will not be enough just to give pills or medicines. It is absolutely necessary that they receive guidance and that they are absolutely certain that those who may benefit from this reimbursement scheme are people who are motivated. In this way you can have a good regime for who will get it, so that you can be quite sure that these actually get it, and that they get follow-up as well. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will include this as one of the instruments, along with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e992	As I said, this is one of the measures we're assessing. It is also the case with medicines that they sometimes have some side effects. That's why we have to be very safe when we recommend someone to use drugs, but that's, as I said, good experience with it. But the experience is that most people who quit smoking actually do without drugs. Here I have great faith in both guidance, motivation and, of course, fully targeted actions – such as health services, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1001	‘One of the main reasons for the high school dropout is lack of apprenticeship after leaving school. Despite the fact that there are, in part, many employees in job categories with a professional background in the department and the underlying offices, fewer apprentices are admitted to the country than in the private sector. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Ministry of Health and Welfare with its agencies contributes more to increasing the number of apprenticeship places than is the case today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1008	Good trade union workers are a prerequisite for a sustainable and well-functioning society and business. It is an important goal for the government to provide high quality training and for many to choose a vocational training course. In relation to regional health enterprises, I have provided that it is possible to increase the number of apprenticeships in health enterprises. This is laid down in the company protocol with requirements and framework for 2011. In the 2011 mission document, we have stressed the need for regional health enterprises to set up a sufficient number of apprenticeships for health professionals’ training and for the training of ambulance workers. Health enterprises cooperate with county municipalities, municipalities, public training offices and KS to develop cooperation actions in this area. According to the Directorate for Health, access at apprenticeships to health professionals is overall at a satisfactory level. Most of the teaching places are in the municipalities, and there is still a need for more places in the specialist health service. The Directorate for Health, on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Health, has launched a project to provide an overview of apprentices in the health professions of health enterprises. The summary shall show where they are, how many they are and how closely they relate to the health business. The experience of health enterprises in recruiting apprentices and their plans will also be examined. ‘Health professionals’ is a new recruitment project in cooperation between KS, HSH, Specter and Health Directorate. The project will also help to increase the number of apprenticeships in municipalities, health businesses and private enterprises, while paying attention to the quality of training. The central government must take its share of the responsibility for providing more places of learning. The Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and the Ministry of the Church have identified the possibilities of recruiting more apprentices into central government businesses. The survey shows, with some reservations, that there is a potential for more apprentices. We have good experience of having apprentices both in my department and in several of the underlying establishments. We will follow developments in the governance dialogue between the department and the departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1023	I have to say that I feel that the minister has a good overview of the situation in the sector and the need for it in the future; she has obviously taken action. The Directorate-General for Education has presented the candidate number in 2011–2012, and it is very gratifying that more people are applying for health and social care. It is these working groups, the individuals, who are responsible for the important and socially useful task of caring for and caring for our elderly and caring people, who were also involved in the Council of State. Will the Minister take into account, or have the Minister taken, the organisation of even more apprenticeship places, as the need for it has increased? There is a rather large increase in the number of applications for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1032	As the representative refers to, there has been an increase in the number of applications, and that is very pleasing. This is a group of professionals that we're very dependent on, and we'll be more and more dependent on in the years that come. It is for everyone's benefit that we are able to get good health professionals, with higher education, into the health sector. It'll be a key factor in the future. When it comes to facilitating, we do it through many measures, as I also mentioned. The municipalities are a very important arena, but the specialist health service can obviously do more. Therefore, we carry out such a continuous survey of the number of apprentices — the experience with them and how they themselves experience it. It's important for us to gain experience in how we can recruit more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1039	I get confidence that there will be more apprenticeship places, and if the minister himself does not care to care for the need, we will be helped by recalling the need. Although we're going to enjoy the fact that there are more people who choose to learn in health and social matters, it's not going to come from the fact that many sadly end up in the profession. There are different reasons for this: small job breaks, work which may take place for five to six years before fixed employment and low pay in relation to education and employment. These are typical women's girls, and maybe that's exactly what's why we still have such working conditions. The question is, will the Minister ensure that the pay and working conditions of these typical women's women's women are improved so that more people remain in the profession after leaving education?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1048	As far as working conditions are concerned, I am very concerned that we have to take care of the people we have in this sector, in the health sector as a whole, because – as I said before – this is a group we are very concerned about. In terms of wages and salaries, something is being discussed outside this room. This is a sector characterised by small and often low job breaks and a lot of part-time work, so it is a pleasure that over the last few years we have received 6,000 more annual jobs only by increasing the job rates. It's very positive, and it's a work that we'll continue with. That is why I have also requested that the number of part-time jobs in the specialist health service be reduced by 20 pst. It's important to get more full-time jobs. So this is something that we have a lot of attention to, and I fully agree with the representative that it is a great responsibility for us all to provide apprenticeships. We can never be good enough. We're going to work actively for this, because it's about our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1060	‘The population of 250,000 in Rome is at risk of losing its x-ray services as a result of the fact that health South-East, according to the District Court and the Law of Lawyers, has neglected its duty to ensure non-discrimination by allowing operators to compete on equal terms. Will the Council of State ensure that Health South-East announces a new tendering procedure as soon as possible, thus ensuring a good and sound provision of X-rays to the population, so that they do not risk queueing at Aarhus or have to travel to other cities for an offer of X-rays?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1067	Regional health establishments shall provide specialist health services to the inhabitants of their region. It takes place through the activity of their own health enterprises, but also through the purchase of healthcare from private individuals. The purchase of health services must take place within the framework of the public procurement legislation. Regional health enterprises are separate legal entities and are therefore legally responsible for the assessments and arrangements they make in this context. I have been informed by Health South-East that they have taken note of the verdict in Eidsivating. They have decided not to appeal further. As a consequence, Health South-East is now working to establish new long-term contracts for the purchase of radiology services. Until such agreements are in place, the population will be guaranteed a sound and good radiology offer through temporary agreements. Health South-East is therefore already taking action to ensure the continuity of radiology provision to the population in its region, both through temporary solutions and through the preparation of long-term solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1076	I thank you for your answer. It was so reassuring, as Health South-East has now entered into and will ensure the population an X-ray offer, and that they are now working on setting up new long-term agreements. But as I said earlier, it's the same for the Right who gets this offer. The important thing for us is that an x-ray service comes in and that it's close to where the population lives. Does this mean that there will be an X-ray in Rome, or what is in new long-term agreements? Is it with Curator, who has now had an appointment, or is it new to the track?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1085	As I see it, there is a new round of tenders. I have to say that I expect that you have learned from the round that has been, and I will again stress that it is the responsibility of Health South-East to provide a sufficient, good and sound radiology service to the population throughout the region. I would also like to say at the same time – since there has been a great deal of attention to this offer and a number of other issues related to the purchasing processes – that we, as known to Stortinget, have asked for this to be evaluated. I think that is also necessary, because it is actually quite important that there is confidence in the processes that are taking place and the choices that are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1092	It was a very good and good clarification for me if entering into new long-term agreements means that this will now be on a new bidding round, that companies can compete on equal terms, and that it is assumed that there will be closeness to the offer for the population. It's the most important thing. As the matter has rolled throughout the autumn and winter, it is very unfortunate. I understand that Health South-East now sees that they have made a mistake, that they are now ready to fix it, and that they will conclude contracts temporarily until there has been a tendering procedure. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1099	As far as I'm aware, it's in the form of extension of previous agreements. Of course, I can check this in detail for the whole area, but that's what I'm familiar with so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1115	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1129	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1154	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1161	I will first be allowed to wish the Council of State Breck welcome back in full drive again. After all, we have missed the good debates we have had in this Chamber, so it is good that we can continue with it: ‘The Lenvik peninsula is not part of the reindeer grazing district. Today, there are two to three hundred reindeer who live illegally on the peninsula. This can cause problems for the municipality’s drinking water. Will the Council of State ensure that the trains that are illegal in the Lenvik peninsula are removed as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1170	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Táldal, for his warm greeting. I am fully able to stand up here, and I am happy to participate in the debates that take place in Stortinget. It is true, as the representative of the Treldal says, that the Lenvik peninsula is located outside the district border of the reindeer grazing district in the area, and thus there is no possibility of using the peninsula for reindeer grazing. We have also been confirmed by the Rein driftsverwaltungsverwaltung in Troms that it is still there. Rain has drawn there because of very difficult grazing conditions this winter in the district. The Ministry has been informed that the reindeer management agent has been on an inspection in the area, and that the matter has been dealt with by the district government in Troms. The district council has ordered the reindeer district to expel all the reindeer from the Lenvik peninsula as soon as animal welfare permits. I now expect the district government in Troms to follow up the case and put in place the necessary measures to put an end to the reindeer grazing on the Lenvik peninsula. The new reintroduction law has provided the governing bodies with more effective tools to address such situations and to implement possible sanctions. I expect these tools to be used, and will follow the management of this matter carefully. With regard to the ratio to drinking water, in this case the municipality is responsible for ensuring the security of water supply to the population. I am aware that the municipality has discussed the situation with the Food Authority. The assessment has so far not provided a basis for specific actions by the municipality or the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1183	As the Council of State says, the reindeer legend has been in here. After the information I am sitting on, the reindeer accountant informed me that the reindeer should be gone by 20 January. It didn't. The area was invaded before Christmas. What has happened is that the farmers have had to go out and report the matter to the police. They did that on 8 February, and the case is still under investigation by the police. So there's nothing happening here. Does not the Council of State not see the need to take more measures in the administration, when the administration is sitting and making decisions, and the cleanness is still not being carried out? The administration has said that if the cleaner was not outside by 20 January, one would drive the cleaner out, but now it is soon 1 April. So it's been four months, and it's still not done anything. When will the Council of State lay down implementing rules and its consequences for the administration when they do not adopt them?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1190	As I underlined in my first response, Rein driftsverwaltungsverwaltung and district management have appropriate instruments that can be implemented and put into use. As I also underlined, these instruments should be used. Of course, if an order for the expulsion of reindeer from the Lenvik peninsula is not complied with by the reindeer grazing district and the district council does not take the necessary decisions on penalties and coercive measures, then it is up to the Rein driftssteuurt/Rein driftsadministration to follow up and do so. It's a matter that I'm following up on these institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1195	I am pleased with the last Council of State said, and I'm going to follow it up with the Council of State. I can promise. So the next question. The answer is that the municipality has been in contact with the Food Authority. The Food Authority says that there is no emergency, and that you can wait and look at the condition of the cleaner before driving them out. I find this a little remarkable. Here we have the largest drinking water sources, to which 10,000 people are connected. It's the responsibility of the Food Authority. Rain cadavers in this area — in this impact area — can damage the drinking water of 10,000 inhabitants, for which EEA and EU rules are also in place, while next time the Food Safety Authority will not oblige anyone to remove it quickly due to animal health reasons. My question to Breck is: Does not Breck see the same thing as I do, that the Food Agency here meets itself in the door and has a double function by somehow serving two parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1202	First of all, I would just like to stress again that there are waterworks winches, in this case the municipality, which are obliged to provide the necessary protection of water sources and adequate measures to ensure the supply of adequate and safe water. The drinking water regulation prohibits the contamination of water supply. It is then the Minister of Health and Welfare who is responsible for drinking water legislation. Within the limits given to them by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, food supervision may impose requirements based on the drinking water regulation. If the Food Safety Authority finds that this situation develops in such a way that there is a risk of drinking water supply in the Lenvik peninsula, I expect, of course, that action will be taken. Let me just stress that the Food Authority is responsible for different areas of administration for different departments, and my impression is that the Food Authority is balancing those considerations in a very good way. We must then assume that they comply with the laws, regulations and regulations at the bottom of their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1213	I want to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘I note that the leader of the Small User Team believes that gender equality and equivalency must be included in the upcoming big business message on agricultural and food policy. Does the Council agree with the Progress Party that there are more important and greater challenges in Norwegian agriculture than the gender balance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1222	Norwegian agriculture faces a number of challenges, not least due to low profitability and low earnings. My starting point is that agriculture cannot afford not to use the resources of women and girls in traditional agriculture, in new, rural industries and for the development of social life in the countryside. A prerequisite for success is good framework conditions, which means that those who are farmers today, and the young people who come after, find it interesting to operate and take over farming. In my opinion, this has nothing to do with a gender debate. We need agricultural production across the country to ensure enough and safe food for an ever-growing population. In order to do this, we have to use the whole country, and we are then totally dependent on both women and men finding it interesting to live in the country and feed themselves on agriculture and what agricultural property can give, either alone or in combination with other work. The seriousness of these challenges has been clearly expressed by the agricultural agreements concluded between the agricultural organisations and the red-green government. I am concerned that the government, through the communication that we will shortly be promoting for the Storting on future food and agricultural policies, lays a framework for building confidence in the future, for a robust agricultural industry – and for both sexes. I find it right to quote an old and good slogan: ‘Without girls, Bygde-Norway stops!’ To the representative's question, I also have to say that I think that to the extent that it is more important to do things than to construct unnecessary contradictions of this type.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1240	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The proportion of women actively involved in agriculture, who are the owners of an agricultural property, has increased in the last 30 years. In 1980 the proportion of women who actively participated in agriculture was 30.3 pst. In 2010, one year ago, the proportion was increased by almost 10 percentage points, then it was 39.8, i.e. 40 pst. That's when I don't understand that it's a problem – that this is something that's important to bring in the negotiations on that big message. There must be other, more important things that the leader of the Small Farmer Team, as the Council of State also knows well, should rather look at. Of course, there are quite a number of things in agriculture that have gone downhill. We've got a lot of empty farms. We have had a lot of farms that are not operated at all. We've got less cultivated area. We've got a worse economy. We have fewer farmers, and we have fewer active farmers. This must be more important?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1249	The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has set a target of 40 pst in a strategy for equal opportunities in the agricultural sector from 2007. female representation in respect of ownership, nutrition and participation in governing bodies in the agricultural sector. The action plan for more entrepreneurship among women from 2008 is a joint effort by seven departments, including the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The aim is that significantly more women should become entrepreneurs and that the proportion of women should be 40 pst. by 2013. Women today own 25 pst. Of all agricultural properties — it is possible that the figures are slightly different, but at least after I have been informed, the figure is 25 pst. – and the proportion of active female farmers in 2009 is 14.3 pst. Women often run and own the smallest farms. But at the same time, I know that several of the cooperative organisations have achieved the goal of at least 40 pst. representation of each sex in its governments. With regard to the financial instruments managed by Innovation Norway, there has been a positive trend in the proportion of establishing grants and BU funds to women in recent years. In 2009, the proportion was 42 pst. for the BU funds and 76 pst. for the founding members. So it's happened a lot positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1258	The paper I refer to comes from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and it says that 39.8 pst. ladies were economically active in agriculture in 2010, versus 30.3 pst. in 1980. It is clear that there is nothing to suggest that women should not succeed in agriculture. We've gotten rid of boys walking in front of girls in terms of odel. It takes the same amount to get into schools. You get the same amount of loans. You get to work the same way. There is nothing to suggest that women cannot succeed in agriculture on the same footing as men. Therefore, I believe that there must be other things that must be more important to a leader in the Small User Team than to do with this. For the only thing that has increased in agriculture in recent years when we have had a red-green government, is the number of empty farms. That's almost the only thing that's increased. It is negative that we have so many farms where the lights have been switched off 24 hours a day. We have to look at that – why it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1267	Then the answer is that we need to focus more on alternative industries, complementary industries, industrial development and value creation. In order for agriculture to exploit that space of opportunity, I believe that we need to work specifically to recruit more women to the industry. Women create lives. They organise leisure activities and spread well-being in their communities. Their commitment and work are a very important contribution to living settlements. Women are diverse, solution-oriented and good at networking, and there are valuable qualities in creating new businesses based on the farm and its resources. And I'm familiar with it so that when we evaluate the success of the different entrepreneurs, women are generally ahead of men in getting to the projects they work with. So we definitely need more women, who do a big job, and in that context, I think it makes sense that organisations are working on those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1278	‘The period of consideration for Certificate E-301 increased from 14 to 20 weeks from week 47 in 2010 to week 9 in 2011. In week 11, Nav reported that the waiting time had increased to 28 weeks. EEA citizens who have earned the right to a daily allowance now leave for 6,5 months without income. The situation is completely out of control, and the State Council's previous assurances that measures to reduce waiting time and to follow the case closely have led to the opposite. Will the Council of State now ensure that Nav rapidly reduces waiting time to normal — three weeks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1285	The Labour and Welfare Act aims to reduce the length of proceedings. The case-handling time increased sharply as a result of the international recession. It led to a very large number of applications for daily allowances from citizens of other EEA countries linked to daily allowances during the period of leave and certificate E-301. As an illustration, the demands for daily allowance during leave were more than tripled, from 731 to 3 283 cases, from 2008 to 2009. The number of cases has remained high in 2010 and into 2011. In order to reduce the length of proceedings, the crew at Nav EEA Daily allowance last year increased to 22 employees, an increase of 7,5 employees, about 50 p.m. In addition, the organisation was reviewed with a view to more efficient operation. This has produced results. The length of day-care during the leave period for foreign labour has been reduced from about 20 weeks last summer to five to six weeks. Treatment time is expected to fall to a normal level of about three weeks in the spring. On the other hand, the case-handling time for issuing the E-301 certificate remains very long and significantly above the normal level of about three weeks. Measures have been put in place to reduce the length of proceedings also on the issue of E-301 certificates. Treatment varies from week to week due to variations in, among others: the entrance. It also states that there are deficiencies in many of the cases when a claim for daily allowances and a certificate E-301 is made, which also helps to extend the length of the procedure. The ETA has therefore gone through internal procedures and procedures in the ETA. These include: focussed on providing better information and guidance to the Nav offices so that the Nav offices can provide the best possible information and guidance to help complete applications when they are received. It is not sustainable that the length of the procedure is so long, and it is therefore an objective to significantly reduce the length of the procedure during the year. I will continue to follow developments in this area closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1296	I think the Council of State has a very passive approach to this big problem. Nav creates social clients, and this leads to those who are unemployed and who actually have the right to day money, having nothing to live on. They are unable to service their debts, nor are they able to cover expenses in the social office. The Council of State has previously replied to me that they can only go there to get money. This is totally unsustainable, and it also conflicts with the Nordic agreements that we should have free movement of labour and that we should also respect their social rights. This is discrimination against foreign labour – those who have approached me are Swedish. A lot of people are going free, and it's a big problem. This is the third time I'm taking it up, and it's totally unsustainable. This is a major barrier that can be removed by a pen stroke, or simply by adding enough resources. It'll always be that they don't have complete paperwork in order. We have a large proportion of foreign labour in this country, which we have to take care of in the same way. Will the Council of State now see to it that it does so quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1301	Firstly, we have reduced the length of proceedings to between five and six weeks, and we are on our way to three weeks in terms of the daily allowances of foreign nationals. That's what we've been giving very high priority. In general, we're on our way to the goal set. Then we have an increase linked to the certificate E-301, which refers to non-residents – in this case Swedes – who will receive daily benefits from the state from which they come. The Swedes make quite strict demands to accept these certificates. They should have information about employment 15 years ago, so there is a lot of work on that job, and there are many errors related to the material coming to Nav Dagpünger. What we have now started is just to make sure that they are as good as possible, so that there is not so much back and forth to fix the defects. We have also increased staffing at this office, precisely to reduce the increase that has occurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1308	My question has always been addressed to foreign commuters who actually live in Sweden. It is also those who have to get their daily allowance when they come home – that is, for E-301 – and that is what the Council of State has promised to fix for a long time. Nothing has happened. Now that section of Kongswinger isn't permanently strengthened. The committee was there on Tuesday, and it was that someone was temporarily transferred from another department, which again lost resources. So that department of Nav Foreign needs to be significantly strengthened. Now we're probably going to get even more people who quit because of Adecco and the crew companies. Nav Foreign must withstand fluctuations. They must take care of these citizens in the same way as Norwegians. In fact, the Swedish unemployed are obliged to take up a job in Norway. It is a common labour market, and it is totally unsustainable to go over half a year without income because Nav does not have enough resources. I am disappointed that the Council of State will not go more actively into and make sure to put in enough resources instantly, and not just relate to her seeing it over the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1322	I didn't say I should see it over the year. I have just referred to the measures that have been taken. The representative Giltun has actually asked questions in the past, both related to daily allowances and related to E-301. I have now shown that in terms of daily allowances, we have given priority to this and reduced the length of the procedure. I fully agree that the E-301 procedure is too long. That's why this is what we're going to do. What you've done is you have an increase in the crew there. What the representative refers to when she says that there has been no increase is the representative's own knowledge. The point is you have an increase of about 50 pst. In that crew, but not everyone's in that office. You also have people sitting in Oslo working on this. That's how Nav has to work. It's not like Nav moves people to the different offices every time you increase the manning and resource use. I have to make sure that at all times we use the resources in Nav in the absolutely best way. Nav has seen a significant increase in resources in this area over the last two years. It peaks in periods. Nav has given priority to the daily allowance. Now that's the E-301 we're going to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1335	This question, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour because the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1338	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘According to a statement in the Sunnmørsposten of 15 March, the owners of Bringsvor Laks sold their company to SalMar and justified this by the fact that as small breeders, they no longer have the power to follow up all the impositions and bureaucratic devices to which they are constantly exposed. This applies to everything from coordination of loop follow-up, regulatory changes, etc. What was now asked to float over is the setting of the Gullestad Committee. What will the Council of State actually do to ensure that smaller farmers too have the right to live?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1347	As regards the location of the site selection, it shall be at the hearing. Therefore, it is not appropriate to comment on individual elements of the sample’s proposal until we have considered the consultation opinions. The government is committed to simplifying the daily lives of small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, I can mention the exemption from the audit obligation for small limited liability companies. Then I can establish that small farms have the right to life. In fact, some of the most profitable farms in the aquaculture sector are small companies. The ‘Economic Analysis of Aquaculture 2009’ of the Directorate for Fisheries shows that small companies have better overall profitability and almost as good operating margins as large companies. In other words, the competitiveness of smaller companies seems to be very good. On the part of the administration, it is an objective that the burden on industry should not be greater than is necessary. To this end, in autumn 2009 the Fisheries Directorate and the Food Safety Authority completed a review of the Aquaculture Code with a view to cleaning up current legislation. This work resulted in a number of regulatory changes at the end of 2009. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs also has a simplification project in progress. The project has carried out several meetings with economic operators, both small and large, with the aim of revealing unnecessary reporting obligations or other burdens on industry. The work is continuously followed up in the department. There are also legislation intended to contribute to an easier everyday life, especially for smaller companies. For example, the Aquaculture Code provides for co-operation and co-location, in order to allow small companies to cooperate more than others in the operation so that they can also benefit from economies of scale. However, some burdens will always be necessary for all farmers to be subject to, for example, environmental requirements. I can't see that the size of a company would be a decisive criterion for whether they have to participate in the battle against salmonmus, to mention a topical issue. Norwegian aquaculture industry shall be environmentally sustainable, and this means that management must have legislation and supervision and implement measures if requirements and rules are not complied with or environmental objectives are not achieved. Such framework conditions must be the same for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1362	It's a little sad that the Council of State doesn't answer the question. My question is not what you've done in the past, and what the world looks like out there, but what the Council of State is going to do in the future. It becomes a little pointless when, among other things, the Council of State. in the opening of its reply, reference is made to the audit obligation of companies whose turnover is less than 5 million. kr. That's not what we're talking about in the case of breeding companies and the investments they're making in this respect. There are probably other types of legislation going on there. I have a question for the Council of State, because the Council of State will not answer with regard to the setting of the Committee of Land, i.e. the Gullestad Committee. One of the main problems facing these breeders in the future is precisely the area related to zoning, for example. My question is, what will the Council of State do about zoning? The sons of the whole Hardanger fjord will be one zone, so that these small farms, among other things, will become one zone. must the cephalopods also have outside this zone, which will create major problems? The Council of State will take the initiative to carry out an impact assessment in this respect before carrying out, inter alia: these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1369	When so specific questions are asked about this matter, I simply have to say that I have to take this with me to the Minister for Fisheries, because I am not prepared to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1374	I expect the Council of State is at least partly informed about the subject when she is going to answer questions in Stortinget because the Minister of Fisheries is travelling in Finnmark and has no opportunity to be here. Then I want to follow up the question a little bit in a slightly wider perspective and not quite so concrete. It is important for the Council of State to — before going to thorough changes related to, for example: area, location, zone location, etc. – is an impact assessment carried out before imposing these things? Further, can the Council of State also agree that if you set the lice so low that you still have to degenerate, can you find yourself in a situation where you can get resistance to lice treatment? Will the Council of State ensure better coordination there at least?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1381	I have to refer to the answer I've given in terms of the more general, like the spatial planning and the consultation that's out there. As regards environmental requirements and luxury requirements, I have to show that there are general environmental requirements for both small and large installations, a little independent of each other; the environmental requirements must apply. However, I just have to say, and I understand that it is not a satisfactory answer for the representative, that I have to take this back to the Minister for Fisheries, and then the Minister for Fisheries is given appropriate answers to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1397	This issue is postponed because the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1411	This question is deleted, as the President cannot register that the representative is in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1419	First of all, I would like to congratulate Ola Borten Moe on the state council post – I look forward to an exciting cooperation. ‘On the day of accession on 4 March, Minister for Oil and Energy, Ola Borten Moe, delivered the following Memorandum of Understanding to the Evening Post: ‘It shall be equal to security of supply and equal price of electricity throughout the country and the same possibility of nutrient development. We're not there today, and it's going to require big investments in networks and transmission capacities." The Council of State also stated that the power crisis in Central Norway is overdue for a solution. What concrete action will the Council of State now take to follow up, and what is the time perspective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1428	First of all, I would like to reiterate and thank you for the congratulations. I want to signal that I too look forward to good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and Line Henriette Heimdal. So to the program statement, which I think is a good program statement. It is important to have a reasonably predictable framework for households, businesses and industry no matter where you live in the country. A stable and efficient power system is a prerequisite for the security of energy supply and is therefore essential for social security in Norway. We are concerned that we should have good security of supply for electricity across the country. It is important that the necessary network projects are implemented in a timely manner, so that we avoid some regions having lower security of supply than is desirable. We can't risk the completely necessary web bet stopping. In the next few years, more network deployments have been planned. For the country as a whole, investments add up to about 40 billion. kr for the next 10 years. When we are now in a period of increased investments in the network, I believe it is appropriate to submit a notification on web issues, which I intend to promote in the course of the year. The purpose of the notification is to provide the overall leadership for the development of the central transmission system. It is necessary because there is no reason to believe that network deployment will not conflict in the future as well. If we are to succeed in the powerful investment period ahead of us, it will be an advantage if an overall political environment has assessed the various balances that need to be made. The opposition also needs to be challenged again, despite the treatment of Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009, in 2009. Making decisions on powerline matters takes a very long time. Sima – Samnanger is an illustrative example of this. It took over five and a half years from Statnett formally sent a notification of the case until the decision was taken and fixed earlier this year. That it takes as long to make decisions is demanding, especially now that there is a need for large investment. I believe that faster and more efficient decision-making processes are necessary and will come back to this. In the case of Central Norway, further action is needed to improve the situation. The most important thing here will be to keep up the progress in the implementation of the Ørskog-Sogndal transmission link, for which the government presented plans for progress last autumn. But this is not the only measure that now needs to be implemented. Statnett is planning investment in total in the region for 9 billion. kr over the next 10 years, while continuing to invest heavily in Enova and the establishment of a certificate market will facilitate significant results on renewable energy and energy conversion, i.e. increased production, increased saving and increased transmission capacity. All these are comprehensive measures, but I want to work continuously towards the long-term goal that I believe is an equal and predictable price of electricity across Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1443	It is a good programme statement that the Council of State has made. It will be difficult to follow it up, but it is absolutely necessary. When Statnett says — in its press release last week — that the power situation is causing growing concern, there should be a concern that both the Council of State and this Chamber share. We now have a difficult situation with regard to electricity in South Norway, and a tight situation both in North Norway and in Middle Norway. The question I want to raise to the Council of State is: How long does he give himself in view of this energy message, as the former Minister of Oil and Energy announced in 2014? We know we don't have that long. He says he will come up with a matter of nets during the year, but do you have room to wait until 2014 to present a new energy message – whoever is now the Council of State that day?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1450	The President will draw the attention of Mr Hemdal to the fact that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1453	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1458	There were a lot of estimates on that issue. I'll try to answer most of the questions. Firstly, I think it is important to maintain that a message text itself does not necessarily improve the power situation. We need to work continuously to try to minimize the risk of getting into the situation that we are now about to end up in in parts of the country – that is. increased production and transmission capacity. Nor can it be excluded that in a country that is hydroelectric, like our own – and in almost all cases it is a great pretense – that gives us abundant and reasonable access to environmentally friendly energy, it will be like this if it rains little, snow little, and if it is combined with cold over a long period of time, the Norwegian energy system will meet challenges. So it's going to be a continuous work for me in the time that's coming. And, as I said, we have concrete policies on this. This shall be followed up. When the energy message is presented to Stortinget, I have to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1467	It is a demanding area into which the Council of State enters. There's no doubt about it. It is through concrete measures that we can solve the tight situation and the crisis we are now facing. By the Christian People's Party, we have taken the initiative that it should be a right and duty for the state to take security of supply more seriously. We have suggested that the Council of State should take initiatives in this area. My question is, are these thoughts that the Council of State will think about? The Council of State is responsible for security of supply, and this is part of his Memorandum of Understanding. Perhaps it is at this point that the Seventh and Last Council of State will be measured – if we have a lack of security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1474	I am sorry that I have not yet had the opportunity to get involved in the Christian People's Party's proposals and thoughts about measures to improve security of supply. But on a general basis, I would say that I am concerned with the issue of security of supply, and all the good suggestions of the Christian People's Party will of course be assessed in the light of that. So my answer would be, well, we'll look at those suggestions, and if we're in favour of them, we'll report back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1483	First, I would like to take the opportunity to welcome Ola Borten Moe as Minister for Oil and Energy. ‘The International Energy Agency, the IEA, believes that Norway’s best environmental action is to build gas power plants in Norway. This will mean less demand for coal power in other countries, according to the IEA. Replacing coal with gas makes sense, says Nobuo Tanaka, IEA's chief executive, and says that Norwegian gas power plants will reduce CO2 emissions globally. The government's attitude towards Norwegian gas power stations without purification is contrary to the IEA position. Will the Council of State consider following the IEA advice on the permit for the construction of gas power plants without cleaning from day one?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1495	First of all, thank you for the congratulations! The CO2 management requirement for new gas power plants in Norway is set out in Soria Moria II and has a background to the government’s objective of contributing to the development of good solutions that can both help meet world energy needs and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Internationally, we face two important trends: large population growth and large economic growth. Both lead to increased energy demand. If the increased energy demand is mainly to be met by fossil energy carriers, without the introduction of new technologies, this will result in dramatic growth in global CO2 emissions. Therefore, we need solutions that meet the demand challenge and the climate challenge, at the same time. This is both a national and an international issue. Norway’s commitment to CO2 management is thus among the main single project of the government in climate policy, and extensive efforts are being made to develop and facilitate solutions for the capture, transport and storage of CO2 in Norway. Work includes projects at Mongstad, research and technology development and international work on CO2 management. Report. Section 9 for 2010–2011, Full-scale CO2 management, explains. The aim is to make work important both in Norway and internationally. It is an objective to develop and implement full scale CO2 management in a way that can contribute to the wide application of such technologies in power generation and in industry. The government wants Norway, as a major energy nation, to contribute to the cleanest possible production of energy. Norway shall be a leading country in climate policy. In the case of new gas power plants in Norway, Soria Moria II shows that the government will grant concessions based on CO2 management from start-up. That policy is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1536	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I want to ask an additional question. The 2008 Environmental Agreement, which is underpinned by all political parties on the Grand Duchy, with the exception of the Progress Party, includes, inter alia: a requirement for CO2 reduction in Norway of approximately Seventeen million. tonnes by 2020. The vast majority of those who have worked on CO2 problems view this reduction by 2020 as unattainable. I believe that it is realistic to reduce Norwegian CO2 emissions by 17 million. tonnes by 2020, or he agrees with the Progress Party that it would be much better to take a large part of this reduction on, for example. the coal-fired power plants in China?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1554	We're going to do both. We must both take emission reductions nationally and contribute to emission reductions internationally. The project in Mongstad is one example of that, but there are a lot of others. And I'm one of those people who really hope that the world will put in place a system that makes it possible to deal with that kind of mechanism. With regard to the issue of Norwegian climate policy: it is firm, according to the broad agreement reached between all the parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party, and of course it will be the guide for both the government and my work in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1561	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Alcoa, the world's largest producer of primary aluminium, wants to build a new aluminiumworks in Finnmark. It can provide 500 permanent jobs and approx. 200-300 jobs for support function. Both the Minister for the Environment and the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party have rejected the project because the energy carrier for aluminium production is gas from the Snow White field, which cannot be cleaned from day one. Is it convenient for the Council of State that Alcoa has had its thumb down on its Finnland Plans and that 500 planned jobs thus disappear from Norway while aluminium is likely to be produced with coal as an energy carrier in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1572	I am among those who hope that Alcoa will move forward with their plans to establish aluminium production in Finnmark, with long-term investments and jobs. However, they need to do so within the same framework conditions and concessions as all other industrial and industrial activities in Norway. In it it is obvious that they are more than welcome if they establish themselves in Finnmark, but then based on an energy carrier like the government I am part of, and the Storting, gives concession to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1588	This question falls away. Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-23.ana.ud1077e1603	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President will not expect the last representative in the Chamber to ask for the floor before the sitting is closed. - The meeting's been cancelled.
