ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e148	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e151	On behalf of the representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Michael Tetzschner and the undersigned, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to strengthen patients' rights in setting the time limit for treatment and in the event of a breach of the treatment deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e156	The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e159	On behalf of the representatives Ib Thomsen, Øyvind Håbreek, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to make a proposal for digital communication from theatre and music institutions. In addition, on behalf of the representative Svein Flötten and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the investigation of the grounds for the clearance of copyright from other countries, cross-territorial clearance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e166	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e169	It is an unusually great pleasure and honour to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Martin Kolberg, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Per-Kristian Foss, Hans Olav Syversen, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Trine Skei Grande and myself to repeal Section 7, second paragraph of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Storting for the administration in order to ensure the Civil Ombudsman's access to the administrative file as well as some other corrections.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e174	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e177	I am pleased, on behalf of the representatives of Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun, Tord Lien and myself, to present a proposal for a representative to amend the regulation on labour market measures – the removal of individual benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e183	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e199	This is not the most lucid of all that the Storting is discussing, but the more important it is. So I just want to, on behalf of the committee, say some words. To take the first step: the national accounts are the annual accounts of the country's income and expenditure in the previous year. The accounts consist of two parts, appropriations and capital accounts. The accounts of appropriations include the items allocated to the State budget. It provides the basis for monitoring that the decision to grant the Trustee in this room is followed up by the central government. The capital account provides an overview of the country's assets, liabilities and cash stocks. There is little doubt that the financial statements for 2010 are comprehensive, as they are every year. The material is definitely not readily available and can be perceived as quite detailed and technical. Nevertheless, fortunately, it is a unanimous committee which supports the suspension of the notification. So I'm just going to make a few short additional comments. The oil-corrected government deficit for 2010 was 104.1 billion. kr. That's $5.3 billion. kr lower than in the newly aged budget, adopted in December 2010. The tax revenue was about 4 billion. kr higher than in the newly aged budget. Other increases in revenue included total revenue amounted to 7.4 billion. kr higher, while the cost was 2.1 billion. kr higher than in the newly aged budget. If we go on to the money we have on the book, we see that the book value of the state pension fund abroad increased by almost an incredible 439 billion. kr, from 2642 billion. NOK at the end of 2009 to nearly SEK 3,081 billion. kr at the end of 2010. The surplus increased the value of the fund by 252 billion. kr, while the net price gain increased the fund by more than 166 billion. kr. The capital injection in the liquidation of the State Petroleum Insurance Fund increased the capital of the Fund by nearly 20 billion. kr. These are quite inconceivable sizes that we handle through the State pension fund abroad, which will be dealt with in our own case just after we have completed the state accounts in the hall. But it's not just SPU that does it well. SPN — i.e. the domestic part of the pension fund — has also gained increased income. From the end of 2009 until the end of 2010, the capital of the State pension fund in Norway increased by nearly 18 billion. kr, from 117 b.w. to 135 B.C.E. kr. The change comes from net interest income and dividends of SEK 4.4 billion. kr and a total gain on share and interest rate positions of SEK 13,4 billion. kr. That was the numbers. There are large sizes we handle, and the numbers show us first and foremost how wonderfully privileged we are to be citizens of a country that has such government finances. Together with our combined work, it is the vast wealth of oil and gas that has enabled us to be in a completely different position, and to have a completely different development in wealth than many other countries. When, in addition, the aftermath of the financial crisis and the consequences of record debt in many countries continue to hit these countries very hard, it is only to note that we are once again in a situation we should be happy for at home, and we should be grateful for that. Thanks to both the oil money and the fact that we are very good at standing on and working – many are on and doing a fantastic job every day, and many are working – we get significant income, as the accounts here show, the community benefits. But this wealth also requires that we take responsibility, that we manage the values well, so that future generations too can enjoy them. Such a fortune does not come – and does not remain great – but it does matter how we deal, among other things. Here at the Stortinget. It is therefore gratifying that there is a broad majority in the Storting that wants to set aside a significant surplus in the accounts and transfer it to the State pension fund abroad every year, also for the year we are now dealing with. We must ensure that the extra resources we receive, including: from the oil, is not phased into the economy at such a rate that the economy is over. Our now large fund is the result of political elections over quite a long time. But finally, back to the numbers. I mentioned that the tax and tax revenues were about 4 billion. kr higher than in the newly aged budget. This suggests that things are going better – yes, actually good – in Norway. People are at work, and companies run well. Due to the financial crisis, the tax revenue from enterprises was expected to fall, but also these revenues have increased in 2009. In fact, tax receipts from entities have been affected to an unexpected extent little by the financial crisis and the international setback. It is good for the income of the community and the state, and it is also a result of a number of policy choices over a long period of time. Prosperity and income do not come of their own. The figures from the national accounts show the results of a successful policy. With this, I'm going to present the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e231	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4997]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e247	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e258	State pension funds abroad, in the public currency called the Oil Fund, passed 3 000 billion for the first time in October 2010. market value kr. At the turn of the year, the market value of the State pension fund abroad was 3 077 billion. kr, and the market value of the State pension fund Norway was SEK 133 billion. kr. Another thought-provoking milestone was reached for approx. about a week ago. 15 years after Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen made the first deposit. With approx. 3 100 B.C.E. kr for management, the oil fund is now considered for the first time to be the largest government fund in the world. It is assumed that the state fund of Abu Dhabi was then transferred to the United Arab Emirates. There is a cross-political consensus that the Fund should maximise its return within moderate and conservative risk tolerance. In the 2011 national budget, the amount of the Fund is estimated to be more than 6000 billion. kr at the beginning of 2020. The entire Financial Committee underlines the importance that if the Community's savings are to benefit both today's generation and future generations, we are dependent on long-term and safe management and broad integration and a high degree of legitimacy around the way funds of the State pension fund are managed. I noticed that the government of the Minister of Finance in his press release on this announcement, Meld. St. 15 for 2010–2011, The Management of Staten pension funds in 2010, wrote the following: «In contrast to traditional pension funds, our savings are not designated as specific liabilities such as current pension payments.» I therefore note that the fund has nothing to do with pensions, and was thus given confirmation that it has been and is a rhetorical grip designed to transfer less of the state's enormous profits to the people. We in the Progress Party therefore believe that the name of the fund is directly misleading and that someone should consider changing it. State pension funds — or whatever they call it — are designed to save to future generations so that they can also benefit from the petroleum industry. But it is also an obligation that we build the nation further for the nation's population, so that its present and future business life will be well-equipped and have good conditions for asserting itself and being competitive in international trade. In February 2011, the Central Bank Chief Øystein Olsen placed great emphasis on the implementation of the rule of action, which is also a designed rule. The central bank manager pointed out that the action room was used ‘to implement standard increases and increase expenditure in a number of areas. On the other hand, priority should be given to measures that strengthen productivity and growth in the longer term, including fiscal adjustments, which seem to have been taken into account.’» I therefore hope that the government parties will now also focus on increasing the use of oil money being channelled to, for example. research, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief, as intended and should be, that most people, taxpayers, retain more of their own money and that the fund is used to generate economic growth. Just as when you or I own a house, an apartment or a farm, for that matter, we are occupied with having it in the best possible condition, and maintain it. Maybe, hopefully, we'll make it even better than it was when we took it, so that our heirs can take over a property that can meet all sorts of future storms and weather types. A sensible owner does not let his house fall due, has all his money in the bank and spends the interest money for consumption and party – but invests. We have had a hearing in the Financial Committee in connection with this big business communication. What makes me a little concerned is the lack of interest. Only a handful of stakeholder organisations reported their interest and met. It wasn't people, institutions, organizations or companies who had opinions about how the fund could get better returns, or maybe less risk, or more transparency; they were mainly concerned with ethics and the environment, which is so far well and good, but in my opinion it should have been more than the rainforest fund, WWF Norway, the Forum for Development and the Environment, and the organisation Delete U-lands debt that met. There was no input from the financial industry or the research community itself, perhaps because we have too little research environment in Norway in this area. The only thing was a written recording from blogger Lars Haakon Søraas, for other alternates to the Norwegian Bank's representation, and Morten Josefsen, who is a blogger and doctoral student at Handelshöjskolan BI. We all note that there has been a new debate in the media. This week it was interesting to read the recordings from the investor and billionaire Øystein Stray Spetalen. He stretched out this week again to the oil fund and asked directly, "How long shall we sit and not make money on shares?" I quote: ‘We started in 1998 by investing in shares, and until now we have not earned it. We haven't made money on this in 13 years, in the most amazing economy we've ever had." I recall the warnings that the Progress Party came with when the majority of the population here wanted to increase their share from 40 to 60 p.m., which happened against the votes of the Progress Party. In addition, the financier Øystein Stray Spetalen, like the Progress Party, believes that Norway should have built up administrative competence itself, mainly here in Norway, while at the same time being aware of who is in charge of the administration. In the past, the Progress Party has called for and proposed that we establish a Norwegian capital management environment in the light of the investments made through the State pension fund, so that Norway and the population benefit more fully, just as we have built in time, and continue to build an environment around oil technology, on which Norway is now the world leader. I also recall that many years ago the Progress Party first called for the Fund to invest in property. The central government pension fund made its first unlisted property investment on 13 January 2011. The mandate now provides for the Bank of Norway to place up to 5 pst. by the State pension fund foreign capital held in its own property portfolio by reducing the bond portfolio accordingly. It is expected that building such a large portfolio will take several years, as confirmed by NBIM during the consultation, while, of course, increasing investment in the coming years is expected. The entire Financial Committee considers it important to use the time necessary to ensure the proper phasing-in of investment in the property market. The Financial Committee has noted that, in the view of the Ministry, a re-examination of relevant research indicates that the foreign currency risk of the State pension fund is less than previously assumed, and in any case relatively small, so that it no longer appears to be the basis for having such a strong concentration of investment in Europe as the Fund currently has. As you can see: ‘The world’s production capacity and securities markets are more and more concentrated in other parts of the world. Over time, therefore, the share of the fund invested in Europe should be reduced for the benefit of larger shares in the rest of the world.’» This takes note of the Financial Committee but at the same time wishes to underline the importance of the European market for investment abroad in the State pension fund and that the European market will continue to be very important. As stated in the Communication, the Ministry will continue to work on the establishment of a new geographical breakdown. The Financial Committee assumes that changes with significant implications for the risk and expected return of the Fund will be submitted to the Storting before they are implemented. I also recall that for several years it has been considered to set up a separate fund for investment in emerging and less developed markets, which is in line with the conclusions of the Development Committee and the recommendations of Nordfund. It is therefore rather disappointing that no proposal is being made this time to set up a separate investment fund in emerging and less developed markets. This has been exposed a number of times. The party of progress is united with the Christian People's Party and the Left to wish for progress in this process, and to set up a separate fund for this. It is interesting and thoughtful that the management costs framework has remained stable over several years despite strong growth in the size of the fund. The figures for 2010 show a sharp increase in administrative costs, and the 2011 budget shows an increase in fees to external administrators of 39 p.m. in relation to 2010. During the consultation in the Finance Committee of the Storting, the Minister of Finance and the head of NBIM said that due to the size of the fund, SPU has economies of scale and is attractive to external administrators and that NBIM has reached good agreements with external administrators. Then I think that the cost framework should also reflect this. I appreciate the fact that there has become more transparency around the administration and I want the salary and bonus conditions of the administrators, including benefits, to be clarified in Norway's Bank's future reports. There was no lack of criticism and warnings after the fund's administrators received large bonus payments in the 2008 crisis year, a year when the fund had a negative return of 633 billion. kr. Nevertheless, we could record that extremely large payments to administrators also occurred in 2010, including a payout of 500 million. kr to an administrator. The Progress Party considers that there is no evidence that active management provides the best return in the long term. We are concerned about the development of costs in the fund and want, among other things, to: therefore an index-based management strategy for the Fund. The management of State pension funds should be done more according to global index references. Such a strategy, in the opinion of both our and some financial researchers, will reduce both the risk and the costs of management. At the same time, an index-based administration will enable Norway to establish a world-leading management environment in this form of management. In order to test and compare results more closely for different management strategies, the Progress Party proposes that the Fund be split into two, where 5 pst. the fund is managed within the current regime, while the remaining 95 pst. by the fund is transferred to passive index-based management. In order to achieve competition, we also want the passive part to be divided into two parts, one of which is managed under NBIM and the other part is put to tender. This is mentioned in proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox I thought I might also say a little bit about ethical guidelines, but maybe we'll look at the development of the debate, if SV provokes us, so maybe we can come back to that. Of course, we also have proposals here, which we have also promoted in previous years, where we point out that we believe that the government is expanding this concept more and more. Finally, I would like to make a few comments – for our part pleasant comments – that there are political changes in the way of views on the management of the oil fund. Among other things, I have Takes me time to look back — the last five, six years — on what the Financial Committee has discussed in the past, and what the various parties have proposed by amendments to the management strategy. Then it is a pleasure for me to record that more and more of the views, opinions and recordings of the Progress Party are now accepted in other parties. As I mentioned earlier, there is now a cross-political agreement that the oil fund should invest in property. The Progress Party also called for the government to explore alternative ways of organising the fund a few years ago. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united on such a unified wish in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Another good proposal is proposal No. 2, about the downside bonus that the Advance Party stood alone about a few years ago, and also there we have now received support from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3, which the Progress Party stood alone a few years ago, stands behind the Christian People's Party and the Left. As regards proposal No: 4, which the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have stood alone, are now also left behind. So I don't know if it's a possible new, future central government that we're now seeing the contours of. Then I end by taking up our suggestions that we promote alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e345	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e348	This year’s Communication on State pension funds deals with the 2010 performance of the Fund and assessments of the framework and investment strategy of the Fund. As in 2009, the result for 2010 is very good. The return on the state pension fund abroad — SPU — was almost 10 p.m. and in the State pension fund Norway — SPN — at about 15 p.m. This means that we can soon stop talking about the large value losses during the financial crisis, because these are more than offset by the gains in the rise period that followed. The objective of the active management is to provide the fund with a higher return than the reference portfolio, thus creating an added value from which future generations can benefit. The results for 2010 are also good both in SPU and SPN. Nevertheless, there is still considerable uncertainty about the further development of financial markets, and we need to be prepared for new periods of unrest. The treatment of the year’s notification shows a broad consensus on the overall long-term strategy for the Fund’s objective. The experience of the financial crisis shows that it is important and that the fund can maintain its long-term investment strategy even in turbulent times. The objective of the State pension fund abroad is to manage the fund in such a way as to generate a long-term, good return on which future generations can benefit. The starting point for the investment strategy — whether it is investment in property, environmental investments, debt securities or shares — is for AIFMs to seek the highest possible financial return in moderate risk. The Pension Fund is managed on behalf of the Norwegian people. It is therefore important that it be managed within the values and ethical rules laid down for the Fund. In the public vocabulary about the Fund, some are concerned that the Fund’s investments will also contribute to a better environment, to the development of the emerging economies and to the development of business and jobs in the future. I would like to point out that today's investment strategy, with the ownership of many different industries internationally, an active ownership exercise, ethical guidelines and the environmental programme, is part of the fund's investment strategy and thus also contributes to this. The Ethics Council contributes to identifying sectors or areas where the risk of breaches of the Ethics Guidelines is greatest and prioritises resources to capture investments in companies that violate the Ethics Guidelines at the earliest opportunity. The work related to responsible investment practices is largely in line with the principles underlying the OECD Green Growth Strategy and UNEP – Green Economy. SPU is expected to grow significantly in the coming years. At the same time, the current contributions to the funds will decrease after each instalment. By 2020, the annual withdrawals from the Fund to cover the oil-corrected government budget deficit will be higher than the introduction of new funds into the Fund. However, the fund will continue to grow because the return on capital is expected to be higher than net withdrawals from the fund, given that the action rule is followed. The growth and size of the Fund provide a good starting point for the further development of the Fund and its investment strategy. SPU is currently a significant owner in the world stock market. SPU owns about 1 pst. of all listed shares in the world. In many companies, ownership has spread to many owners, and this makes even a possession of 1 pst. in a company, the fund is one of the largest owners. It influences ownership of the company, and therefore the ownership strategy of the fund is important. In the Communication, the Ministry prepares for the further development of the investment strategy for the SPU by 2020. New types of investment in unlisted markets such as unlisted shares and infrastructure investments in addition to the investment of property have been assessed, for which it was opened in 2010. Comparisons with other funds and the SPU’s long time horizon make it natural to assess such investments in the fund. High uncertainty about the expected return on unlisted shares and high administrative costs means that the Ministry wants to step up its efforts to make experience of investments in unlisted real estate, for which it has already opened up, before possibly moving along this track. The Ministry will come back to this question. It is supported by the majority. The Ministry has also assessed the geographical distribution of investments. The SPU is widely placed in the world’s financial markets. A new review of relevant research suggests that the foreign exchange risk in the SPU is less than previously assumed, and in any case relatively small, and that there is no longer a basis for such a strong concentration of investment in Europe as the Fund currently has. World production capacity and securities markets are more and more concentrated in other parts of the world. The Ministry therefore recommends that the proportion of the fund invested in Europe be reduced over time for the benefit of larger shares in the rest of the world. However, the European market will continue to be very important. The Ministry also mentions proposals to simplify the reference index for debt securities and any further development of the mandate, in line with the recommendations contained in the report by Schaefer and Behrens in the Communication. Such adjustments will, in the view of the Ministry, be possible without significant changes in expected returns and risks. The Ministry will consider whether it is appropriate to implement such changes during the year. Any major change in the management of the bond portfolio will be submitted by the Ministry to the Stortinget before any decision is taken, and the Ministry will report on the further development of the bond management next year to the Stortinget on the management of the fund. While foreign investment companies, parliamentarians and businesses show a great deal of interest and attention for the State pension fund, the Stortinget deals with the annual notification of the fund without the large markings. Not that we don't mean the big message about the pension fund is important – it is – but we don't make a big number out of it, and there's hardly anyone outside this room who noticed that we're handling this message today. Not so strange, maybe – it’s a little new for us to be ‘powerful in finance’, as the Minister of Industry called it in an interview last week. For both the Folketry Fund and the State pension fund abroad, well-known investment funds are in the market. The SPU has gradually become one of Norway’s leading brands abroad. Are we conscious of this, and are we taking advantage of this brand? There is a great deal of interest in the fund when the Storting Committees are on committee trips abroad or receive visits and meet politicians and others who want to hear more about the SPU and how we run the fund politically. This is confirmed to a large extent by a look-up, inter alia. Last week, today’s Industry, which tells us that other investment funds and fund managers are looking with interest to Norway and how we have posted the management of the SPU. It's not just the fact that SPU is one of the world's largest government investment funds that give the interest. It is also the investment strategy and the ethical guidelines for the management of the SPU, which have been politically initiated and adopted by the Stortinget, which are incarcerated. That's very interesting. One of the world's largest buying-in companies, according to today's economy, will follow the same line as the pension fund in terms of the framework for responsible investments. According to the paper, they believe that: ‘the Norwegian Oil Fund is a major inspiration and Norway considers that it has established a brand of competence in this area. [[...]] This is the most systematic and comprehensive approach to responsible investment we have seen so far.’ The U.S. fund wants to profile itself as the spearhead of responsible investment. That's also our political ambition for SPU. That is why we have developed and improved the ethical guidelines year after year. That is why we in ownership are concerned that fund managers should express expectations of the companies in which they invest – on good corporate governance, on prevention of child labour and the promotion of children’s rights, on risks related to climate change and water management. The fund managers have a fundamental obligation and it is to exercise an active ownership to ensure long-term, good returns on the investments the fund makes abroad, so that future generations can also benefit from the oil wealth. At the same time, a framework has been developed over time for the Fund in the form of investment strategy, ethical guidelines and a responsible investment strategy, and a competence in fund management and ethics that now makes the SPU ‘the spearhead of responsible investment’. It is a trademark of Norwegian state ownership and investment strategy, which is also underlined by the government’s ownership announcement. All parts of the Stortinget agree that SPU should not be used as a foreign policy tool. It is essential to separate SPU from Norwegian foreign policy. However, we do not exclude that SPU is a Norwegian state fund that is perceived abroad as part of Norwegian policy. According to that interview with the Minister of Industry, he also notes when travelling with business delegations around the world, that the interest in Norway is significantly stronger with the large investment portfolio we have through the SPU, and that he, for example, is In India, the SPU had been particularly well received because of its investments during the financial crisis. According to the European Manager of that American Purchasing Company, their new focus on environment, society and management will make Norway and the Nordic region even more interesting to invest in the future. Here, Norwegian industry should know its visit time and also look at SPU’s ownership strategy and ethical guidelines in the marketing of Norwegian companies and how it can contribute. It may also be interesting to look ahead to what SPU and SPN actually mean for Norwegian reputation and business today, within the objectives and framework laid down for the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e389	We have spent another year with a very good return on state pension funds abroad – and inland. I would therefore like to express my initial satisfaction with the results of the fund. The national pension fund abroad, to which reference has been made, delivered a return of 9,62 pst. in 2010, of which 1.06 was pst. additional return over and above the reference index. The fund has thus taken back the poor results of the financial crisis. The State pension fund Norway delivered 15.27 pst. Last year's return, of which there was a further return of 0.56 pst. There is a broad consensus on the main features of the government pension fund management. It feels that the Right is very important to maintain and underline. There are few — if any — examples of countries that have made rapid progress in wealth, which have managed to manage it, so that it has benefited several generations without destroying the country’s economy. The broad political support – and I will also add the popular acceptance – for the way we manage our common wealth is very important to maintain. It is a responsibility not only for the political parties but also for the government and the administrators to ensure that we are able to maintain the broad support and popular acceptance. I would like to add that in this respect I believe it is important that the government, the Bank of Norway and NBIM continue to work to ensure greater transparency in the management of oil money. There I believe that the Norwegian Bank has gone in the right direction through the way to ensure greater transparency in monetary policy. There should also be a high level of emphasis in the management of pension funds. It is important to create both acceptance and understanding of the strategy and the way money is managed. It is easy to be part of the jubilee when the fund makes a lot of money. It is more demanding in times when the market falls. But the more important it is that the broad support is there, so that administrators can feel security in times that are worse than we now experience. I remember the setback in the stock market in 2002 and 2003 – and not least now in the context of the financial crisis, where the fund lost 633 billion. kr. It was then important that there was a unanimous increase in support of the strategy that had been established. It was and is a long-term strategy, and this anchoring and robustness is absolutely crucial when the fund is up in troubled times and the market is falling. I think it was strange that the rapporteur drew Stray Spetalen as a good example. There could hardly have been an example that was worse than a leading star for how to manage the fund. I remember very well March 2009 when the market was at its lowest and Stray Spetalen recommended selling in – if it was not entirely of – shares. If they had followed that advice, Norway would have been hundreds of billions of dollars poorer as a nation. I am therefore pleased that there was a large majority in Stortinget who recommended a different strategy. While the Right agrees with the main features of the government's follow-up to the management of the pension fund, we call for a more forward-looking approach to issues that naturally arise as the fund grows. First of all, this concerns the organisation of NBIM and the management of State pension funds abroad. It was right to add the administration to Norway’s Bank in its time, and Norway’s Bank has been a good home for the fund, which has reached the age of 15. But those of us who are teenage parents know that it's been a good home, doesn't have to mean that teenagers will live at home forever. NBIM has become larger than the traditional part of the central bank and requires close and competent follow-up at all levels. The right has not concluded in the way the fund and the administration will be organised in the future, but we believe it is right and necessary to explore ways of organising the fund and its management in the next phase of the fund. In the previous announcement to the Stortinget, the Ministry had a discussion of possible models. There was one possibility, which could be to set up a separate monetary policy committee, so that the Governing Council could concentrate on the follow-up of the State pension fund abroad. Another model could be a separation of the fund. The right considers that these models should be further explored, so that we can assess whether today's management is the optimal one, or whether we should choose another for the future. But let me again stress that the Right is concerned that there should be a broad political upturn and support for any changes in the way the Fund is organised. But the government should note that the four bourgeois parties are united for a proposal today, where we are asking for a further investigation. Another area where we see a slightly forward-looking attitude from the government is alternative investments, including unlisted shares and private equity. Reports have been submitted showing that there is a significant potential for exploiting the fund's characteristics as a large and long-term fund, given that the investments are being made properly. There is a wide range of seas, and it is therefore important for the Ministry of Finance to set up a robust framework for investment. Instead of addressing these demanding challenges, it seems that the government is pushing the whole issue ahead. In the middle of the big news about the management of the pension fund, we should not forget why we have created the fund. It is a design to which a whole world gives recognition, a unique way to phase large amounts into the economy in a controlled way, where it is particularly important to stress that this should not harm the competitive part of the economy. Right-wing believes it is important that we follow up the broad consensus it was when we dealt with St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001, namely that money spent on the economy as a result of the space provided by the action rule is to be channelled into growth-creating activities, namely in infrastructure, education and research and growth-promoting tax relief. This was also one of the main points of the President of the Central Bank, Øystein Olsen's anniversary, in which he demanded: ‘Prioritisation of measures that strengthen productivity and growth capacity in the longer term, including adjustments in the tax system [[...]] I think that was well said. Finally, let me express my disagreement on another point in the speech by the President-in-Office. It is linked to the interpretation of the Minister of Finance's press release. The fact that the money in the state pension fund abroad is not earmarked for pensions does not mean that it has nothing to do with pensions. Just that we're able to build a large fund, managed in a correct and long-term way, makes today's and the future pensioners feel secure that the pension is in an account every month. At these times, how many countries in Europe are cutting down – and cutting heavily – on their pensions, and many are walking around and insecure about whether the pension is in the account next month, we can see both today’s and future pensioners in your eyes and say that you can feel secure that the pension is in your account. Therefore, State pension funds abroad have absolutely something to do with pensions. The fact that there is no earmarked pension does not undermine this important point, namely that it creates security for the pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e426	State pension funds abroad have reached another milestone and become the world's largest fund. It gives us enormous opportunities and some obvious challenges related to, among other things. ethics, transparency and risk. How are the Norwegian people supposed to earn their pensions? This occupies a lot of the North. The Pension Fund makes Norway a major financial player globally. The ethical guidelines have been important to put an end to Norway’s contribution through the Fund to serious and systematic human rights violations, child labour or upgrading races. Most people now agree that it makes sense to have such ethical guidelines, seams if this has almost always been the case. Fortunately, the debate is not so much about it, but to what extent we should take ethical considerations into account. Almost weekly, the SPU receives critical searchlights from organisations in Norway and abroad, which are engaged in human rights, indigenous rights, employee rights, weapon production, environment and climate. That's good, because we need the most open debate on how we manage the common wealth of the people. I do not intend to disappoint the representative Jørund Rytman, so I thought I would just focus on the ethical guidelines – since I have a 5 minute post – and I believe that it is absolutely essential that we have a special focus in the debate on exactly this. I think the representative Irene Johansen argued well why it's important. The Progress Party stands out in the debate on the ethical guidelines, where consensus has now been reached – almost – as opposed to what was the case when the SV proposed ethical guidelines some years ago. This has developed gradually, and more and more people have joined the view that the ethical guidelines are correct and that they give us the opportunity to influence – and to earn – that more people should be interested in supporting. But the Progress Party therefore believes that ethics should not be mixed into the store, for we should preferably invest the North's pension money in most of what is allowed – or really everything that is allowed – in the world, including nuclear weapons. Even the government is asked to provide an assessment of how the ethical guidelines could potentially harm Norway’s reputation abroad. I'd say it's remote from reality -- at least it's alarming. It is possible that our guidelines harm Norway's reputation, but in that case, with the eyes of those who are currently making their money on child labour, class weapons, nuclear weapons and security systems that can contribute to Israel's international policy towards the Palestinians, just to mention something. Other more serious actors regard the Norwegian pension fund as a model. We are a financial power, as has been said here, and other countries, financial actors and organisations are very interested in our fund and our policy for this fund. It gives us a clear responsibility, but it also gives us some great opportunities. We've discussed this before, but I'd like to repeat it: everything that's allowed doesn't have to be done. Ethics is about something more than dealing with prohibitions and injunctions. Besides, we depend on people's trust. We need digestion about the management of our pension money. I want the Progress Party to be happy to explain to the average Northman why we should invest in nuclear weapons, class weapons, land mines and companies that prevent the workers from organizing. SV has the opposite view of the Progress Party. We want to take more steps forward towards what we think is responsible management. We will continue to take the initiative to discuss ethics. The ethical guidelines were an important victory when they were introduced many years ago after pressure from SV, as said, and in particular from Øystein Djupedal, my predecessor in the Financial Committee. Lately, we have a regulatory framework for investment in government bonds. This is a difficult area that we will have to discuss in more detail. The Arab Spring and everything it has revealed, including for Western countries, should make us consider whether we should have a more offensive line than we have today. SV also wants more debate on the possibility of imposing specific requirements on companies operating in sectors that present particular risks with regard to serious breaches of important conventions and human rights. Finally, I would like to stress that the level of fees paid by administrators should be kept to an acceptable level. SPU is the people's fund, and people in Norway have a tradition of standing behind the idea of equality. Sky-high fees have not been common in Norway nor should they become common. We are responsible for ensuring that people have confidence in how the fund is managed, and we are going to follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e449	State pension funds abroad and inland show our strong government finances and show what a privileged people we are. It also shows that when we're such a different country, we have a very big responsibility that we don't get navigational enough. This applies both in relation to international solidarity, and this is true, on the Norwegian side, of the fact that jealousy between peoples is one of the finest plates in a country in which it is good to live. Having such a large amount of material resources is incredibly demanding in that the state and political Norway should ensure this agility. There is today a low economic cycle around us that is very large, with a high unemployment rate, which leads us to a large labour force immigration to Norway, which leads very well with it, while we know that the large labour force is coming into industries that may not already have the highest level of income. Thus, it becomes incredibly demanding to ensure this agility. I would appeal to the government to pay more attention to these issues, so that one does not need to read in the statistics what it has been like, but that one has a sense of good contact in the workplace to understand these major challenges. The fact that the economic situation in Norway is so different from our main trading partners also leads to a weakening of our competitiveness. When we then have to mitigate capitalisation and Norwegian krona, we have to pursue a low-interest policy, which, too many in today's situation, yields a negative real interest rate, leading to a very high level of activity in the private sector, a very high level of private consumption and a large amount of labour resources into private consumption. So we also get used to habits, and it can be very bad to reverse these habits when we have to get more urgent times, based on an international sense of solidarity, if not other things will require it. We are discussing the State pension fund today. So we're discussing the management of natural resources that are relocated to financial capital. We have a very high rate of redeployment of these natural resources. These are national decisions, but I would also like to point out that more than many people may be aware of, is under international pressure to ensure safe supply of oil and gas to Western Europe. This combination of international pressure and national decisions thus leads to a very high rate and a strong increase in Norway’s financial capital reserves. The international economy is still uncertain. Yes, according to the Central Party’s assessment, it is more uncertain than the public word change in Norway. It is not least due to the special situation of the United States, where there is no necessary balance between revenue and expenditure. It's an imbalance that would have to find its solution in a way, and that would naturally mean that the papers of the American economy would be weakened. It is therefore important that the SPU reduces the risk and spreads within the appropriate framework in order to take this into account. Nevertheless, for the most part, there is an ever-increasing cross-thinking of people that we in Norway have a lack of investment in modernisation, in communications and in business conversion. As I have said before from this pulpit, there is too little focus on long value chains related to the processing of our renewable natural resources. Finally, the State pension fund Norway/The Social Security Fund has an important role as a strategic investor. In the financial sector, savings banks have an important role and constitute an important correction. Therefore, it is central that they invest more in basic fund certificates, so that savings banks who want to do so can have a capital base that allows one to follow in the competitive situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e464	Let me first say that I believe a total increase, at least when we're abroad – there are some differences in that – is proud of the management of the Norwegian pension fund. But when we get here in the hall, of course, it's more natural to take up some areas where you might want some changes. However, I have said that in general, the Christian People's Party is very pleased with how we manage our pension fund. It serves both the government and those who are more in daily life, in honor, and not least the Storting, who actually have the power to deal with the framework for both the rule of action and the investment that we have decided. It's positive. Such an annual report will in a way be a kind of edition of «Who's Where»: Who's going to invest, where are we going to invest, and what are we going to invest in? We're discussing all three questions. An overall opposition – mentioned by several – discusses in this setting a little more who will make the investments and how to organise our pension fund in the future. I have also not realized that the government is totally opposed to looking at it. It can be exciting to hear if the Minister of Finance will elaborate on this, even though, of course, we do not expect there to be any absolutes here and now. But with the increasing size of the fund, it's probably also a point to look at alternative ways to organise the fund, not least from the main task that Norway's Bank has after all initially has for a slightly different activity than the one we're discussing today. What are we going to invest in? Yes, now we've expanded our investment universe to include property. As the proposals show, which I am also addressing on behalf of the Christian People's Party, we should also see that we could invest in something different from what we do, at least try to do it, in the energy and environmental sector, and not least set up an investment fund aimed at investing in sustainable businesses and projects in poor countries and emerging markets with a target of a total investment framework of at least 10 billion. kr. Representatives from the position parties have also said that this is something you want to see, but I do think that the remarks are on the limit of the passiveness of the majority parties. If it means a shift towards not being so interested in it, I think it's unfortunate. The last question is, how are we going to look at this fund? It has been repeatedly said that this is not an actor in Norwegian foreign policy. We can say that, and we mean that, but that it is increasingly perceived in other countries, I don't think there is any doubt about it. It poses additional challenges for the management of the fund when its size is and will be as large as it is now. Then I have to bring up something that the previous governor, Svein Gedrem, said, and that has been repeated in this year's announcement, namely that we are guests in someone else's house. The current Governor Svein Gedrem also stated that ownership cannot be based solely on Norwegian values and attitudes. Then you can discuss in what context this is said, but at least let me say from the Christian People's Party that if we act as owners, we are owners, not guests. If you think you need to manage across Norwegian values and attitudes, you get to print out correctly what you want to do next time, or I expect this houseman's spirit to be gone from the annual reports. But as I said, in general, we are happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e479	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e482	It is very positive to say about the management of the State pension fund in 2010. I join without further ado with what has been said by the speakers before me. The losses of State pension funds abroad in the financial crisis of 2008 are more than recovered. Seeing the 2008–2010 period as a whole, the fund has had a total return of more than 260 billion. kr. And it's worth noting that if we had reduced the risk in the fund in 2008 or 2009, the recovery of the rise in the post-financial crisis would not be as strong. This shows, in my view and in my view, the need for a broad anchoring of important aspects of the management of the State pension fund, which almost everyone has been involved here today. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for long-term and safe management. It is important that a capacity to stand by a long-term strategy, especially when there is a disturbance in the market. I am therefore pleased that there is a large majority in Stortinget who, on behalf of the Norwegian people, have chosen such a wise strategy. I think it is very good that the government in the Communication presents some perspectives and challenges towards 2020. It turns out that 15 years after the Minister of Finance made the first deposits with the State pension fund abroad, the fund has become the world's largest government fund, with almost 3 100 billion. kr. SPU is also expected to grow significantly in the coming years. According to the Communication, it is assumed that by 2020, the fund can grow to approximately twice as large as it is today. It confronts us with a number of issues that have not been discussed in the communication, but which, in my view and in the view of the Left, are important to include in the further debate. This applies in particular to the following: Is the rule of action good and sufficient? Do we make the best possible use of the returns and the way the plan was? Is transparency about administration, about investment and extraction, good enough? The development of the Fund suggests that in the coming years there will be a strong increase in the use of oil money as a result of the 4 pst objective of the action rule. Several economists, including the Statistical Central Bureau, have raised a debate on the use of oil money should be reduced to 3 p.p., partly based on historical returns in the Fund, but also in the interests of competitive business. It is an important debate. I'm not sure what the correct answer is, but maybe the rule of action needs to be expanded by adding a supplement, like that. that the rule of action should remain at 4 pst. but not more than a fixed percentage of GDP. The increase in the use of oil money also increases the need to use money to increase the growth of the Norwegian economy and does not undermine the competitiveness of Norwegian export-oriented business. We've repeatedly discussed in this room if we use the oil money after the intention and what can be defined as growth promoting, why the government, in our view, and that of others, has a somewhat selective view of, for example. tax incentives for growth. I'm going to leave that debate right now, but I think it would be good for the future management of the fund that we, who agree on the management strategy and on the action rule, also more agree on how to use the return. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance to take the initiative with the aim of achieving some sort of understanding of the use of the return, and that this should be concluded in connection with the next year's treatment of the management of the SPU. Finally, I would like to stress once again that it is very important for the opening up of the rule of action and the management of the State pension fund that this is done as openly as possible. Transparency shall be the general rule, not the exception. Also in this area, it's been a lot better in recent years, but we can always get better. The left was aware two years ago that the best thing would be for the Riksrevision to have the ongoing audit responsibility of the Bank of Norway, and thus SPU. This didn't get a majority, and I'm not going to rematch this today. Today's system is given a chance, but I would nevertheless encourage the government to consider on an ongoing basis whether the Riksaudition should have a formal audit role in parallel, in addition to an international audit firm, because I think it will contribute significantly to the Storting's ability to exercise control and audit of the Bank of Norway and ensure that it is as transparent as possible about the management of our common pension assets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e522	As the representative of the Seven, I travel a little bit, so do I. And it's true, as they say, that it's noticed out there how we manage the great wealth that the Pension Fund is. We reap praise and recognition for it. I think that's why we're proud that we've managed to do it together. It also serves the political system in Norway to the credit that we have done it over very many years. The reason why that's the case is that oil wealth is the property of the people. It was fixed already in 1974. And it's the Storting, who on behalf of the people is going to manage this wealth, and manage it in a way that makes it not only for the benefit of our generation, but also for future generations. Then it is important to stress that in order to maximise the extent possible of the way we manage the fund, it must also be managed in line with values anchored in the Norwegian people. It's important to underline. The debate today, the hearing we had on 20 May, and the fact that there is a broad majority joining in the way we do this, shows that we are jointly taking this task very seriously. It's not just important that we have had an agreement in the historical context. It is also important that we anchor this widely in the years to come. This fund differs in many ways from other funds. It's big, it's long-term, and it's owned by the people. Of course, it will both require and provide a framework for governance. That is why we are also inviting this year to a debate on the further development of the Fund's investments. As in the past, we also want to discuss planned changes in the strategy before they are implemented. Only in that way can we live up to the desire and goal of being a long-term investor. So it will always be that a discussion about as big things as this is about, will also be about individual things. It's natural. But I think it is important – and we live up to that in the discussion today – that we also look at the long lines in the fund. This is done in the context of the 2010 Communication. It will also happen in future messages. Then it is clear that the size of the fund and the growth of the fund in the years ahead will be a significant challenge in themselves. From the Ministry's point of view, we would like to add to an open and prejudiced discussion about it, both on what it requires in relation to investment strategies, and on how to organise investments. But at the same time, I would like to stress that we have made some changes now in relation to the management of the Bank of Norway. It is important that it works, and it is important that one does not create uncertainty over time about how the fund should be managed. But the fact that we should have and should have a debate on such things is important. I would also like to stress that from 1996 onwards, when the first deposit came into the oil fund, experience shows that no placement is risk-free. We kind of have to accept that there is a risk, but of course it's also a profit to get. In this year’s report, we warn that over time we will reduce the share of investment in Europe and that we will review the share of emerging markets. We consider several changes in the bond portfolio. We are not now opening up for investment in new asset classes. But it's not that we don't want to discuss and evaluate it as we gain new experience in several areas. We propose to introduce a general ceiling on external fees in the SPU. In terms of SPN, the old People's Security Fund, we've had a special review of active management, and we're planning to continue today's framework. In the last year there has been a lot of discussion about active management and, in particular, external management. At the same time, there have been calls for increased investment in unlisted and other more untapped markets. It in itself will in case provide more external and more active management. It's important to have it with you in this discussion. We have taken many measures to strengthen the control and supervision of the Fund. As I said, it is important that these are measures that work for a time, before we possibly make major changes to the framework around the fund. Then it is important that there is a clear division of responsibilities and roles between the levels of administration that have something to do with the fund, from the Storting down to the individual administrator. In addition, good oversight and control units at all levels are important and the division of labour between the different supervisory bodies is clear. The national audit plays an important role in public administration. At the same time, it is important that we have a clear division of labour in the management of SPU and SPN. It is therefore appropriate that the Committee re-examines the division of responsibilities and roles between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the external auditor and the National Audit Office. In my view, it will further strengthen administration. We take the ethical challenges of being a large and widely distributed investor, in the greatest seriousness. In the role of the responsible investor, we need to maintain values in a broad sense: we need to ensure long-term returns, and we need to ensure – as I said before – that the management corresponds well to the common value base that the population represents. That will be challenging, and we still have to deal with complicated questions. What is the most ethical right thing to do in a situation where we know that there are human rights violations, or there is a risk of environmental pollution? Are we going to sell holdings immediately, are we going to try to influence the company, or are we going to go out openly with our concerns, while giving the company a chance to deal with the situation, perhaps also jointly with several owners in the company? The last possibility, as we call observation, is something for which we introduced guidelines from 1 March 2010. We take the role of responsible investor with great responsibility. At the same time, it is clear that neither with this fund can we meet all ideal claims. But we're going to go far, because we want to be not just a good fund in that area, but to be in the leading world class in terms of responsible investment and ethical responsibility. Then I have noticed that several of the committee's members are asking for more information about the cost development of the fund. It is natural that, as the fund grows and the strategy is extended to new asset classes, reporting on cost developments is now extended. Therefore, in the annual report from Norway’s Bank, a new analysis has been presented for the development of management costs. I also suggest that next year's report on the pension fund will provide an even more detailed presentation of the management costs. The results in both SPU and SPN were, as others have pointed out in the debate, good in 2010. The return in the SPU was almost 10 pst. and in SPN, drained 15 pst. There were also good results in the active management of both funds. Since the start-up, the annual average real return has been 3,3 pst. It's slightly lower than the 4 pst. which forms the basis for the rule of action, but 4 pst. is, however, a reasonable estimate of the expected real return over time. History has shown that average returns may vary significantly over periods of even 10 to 20 years. If you were to change the rule every time the return turned out to be different from what we expected, we would have to change it often. A rule that often changes will lose its credibility. Such an undermining of the rule of action would, in my view, jeopardise the stability of the Norwegian economy. The results seen in 2010 are in addition to very good results in 2009 and mean that during the financial crisis, the large falls in value are more than offset by the gains during the boom period that followed. Finally, we have in the near past marked some important events in the Norwegian context. Yesterday, 15 June, 40 years had passed since production started in the Ecofisk field. On 31 May it was 15 years since the first deposit in the oil fund, and on 29 March the rule of action celebrated its 10th anniversary. Looking at what has happened in these years, we have developed an industry that has grown in a large way and that has meant and will mean great economic opportunities for Norway in the years to come. Managing this in such a way that it benefits both today's generation and future generations is our most important task. Thank you for the floor!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e568	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e571	Is the Minister for Finance satisfied with the high growth in personnel costs? If he thinks it's okay that only a few months after the budget was adopted in December, you can cut 25 pst., approx. 1 billion. Norwegian krona, in terms of costs, since the strategy has changed? I believe to remember that at the hearing in the Financial Committee, Slyngstad said that it was possible to cut the costs of external managers by 50 p.m., and that these were originally budgeted by approx. 2 billion. kr. Does this indicate that there is sufficient control over costs? Does the ministry do a good enough job of checking the budgets of NBIM? Today, I understand, the budgets are to be approved by both the Board of Governors of the Bank of Norway, the Board of Representatives of the Bank of Norway and the Ministry of Finance. For me, it may seem that none of these are doing a good enough job in relation to the budget process in NBIM. Is it clear enough who actually approves the budgets of NBIM, and does the Minister of Finance think that the budgets are being properly checked?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e578	First, I want to refer to the answer to question No. 1, from the Progress Party, where we've discussed this a little bit more in detail. In addition, for the 2011 budget, it was based on preliminary figures for 2010 because the budget was available before such an accounting for 2010. The reason for the relatively high cost increase from 2010 to 2011 in relation to the budget was that costs fell in 2010. Then it's true that it was referred to here, that the hearing found that costs have fallen significantly in 2011. It is also apparent from the quarterly accounts submitted a month ago. So the cost is now significantly below. I fully agree with the questioner that it is important that both NBIM and the Bank of Norway try to make the best possible estimates for the budget. But the most important thing is actually that you manage to have low costs over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e587	Let me first express satisfaction with the fact that the Minister of Finance stresses the importance of transparency in the management of State pension funds abroad, and that the Minister of Finance also shows transparency in relation to a further dialogue on the future organisation of SPU and NBIM. My question, however, relates to another point on which the Minister of Finance was involved, like the Committee. It is linked to the division of roles and responsibilities in the control of the Bank of Norway and the SPU. There the Minister of Finance, like a broad majority of the Committee, stressed that the Riksaudition’s task was to carry out the administrative audit of the Ministry of Finance, while it was up to the representative and external auditor to supervise and supervise the Bank of Norway and the SPU. This is a recurring debate. My question is how the Minister of Finance sees that he can ensure that this discussion does not come up again. Will there be a need, if necessary, for legislative changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e594	I fully share Mr Sanner's view that it is important that there is a clear division of responsibilities between the various bodies responsible for controlling and supervising the State pension fund. That is why we have strengthened our representation. For this reason, the role of the representative has been special. That is why we have been very clear that the Riksrevision's responsibility is primarily to control the department's office in relation to the Bank of Norway. So I hope that the clarification that is now taking place through the comment is sufficient. However, if it turns out that it is not, I may, in consultation with Stortinget, consider how to proceed with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e601	As far as the audit and responsibility for it is concerned, we know that the Riksrevision is a large-scale agency. At least the President is well aware that the Control Committee has addressed this particular issue. So I'm essentially counting that there would be no need for any further clarifications in that way. I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance stressed that the fund should be managed on the basis of values anchored in the Norwegian people. I also feel that you should not be committed to being guests in the other person's house, but have an active ownership, and exercise it in line with what the Stortinget wanted. I'm glad. My question is about the investment programme in emerging and less developed markets. Is this something this magnificence will be presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e610	I would first like to thank you for the support that came in the first part of the line. As far as the second part is concerned, we are investing in emerging markets, i.e. in listed shares in emerging markets. What we have said is that we will not yet invest in unlisted or unlisted shares in developed or emerging markets. That means that what we want now is to gain some more experience in the property field, to build up skills and capacity in that area. We imagine that if you are going to enter unlisted shares, regardless of the market, it will mean that you have to build up new skills in the fund. But there's nothing written off. I have no problem presenting it to a somewhat broader discussion of the current greatness, to say it this way. There's still two years left before there's a big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e617	The representative Jan Tore Sanner quoted in his post what the governor said in his year. The central bank manager pointed out how the action room is used ‘to implement standard increases and increase expenditure in a number of areas’. ‘Priorities for measures that strengthen productivity and growth capacity in the longer term, including fiscal adjustments, appear to have come to an end’.» So my question to the Minister of Finance is: does he see the need for a common understanding of what the returns will be used for, and will he then take the initiative in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e627	The rule of action is a predictable rule for phase-in of oil revenues in the economy. It's important to have it at the bottom. So it's like this, as has been said by others, that they're approx. 100 billion dollars now spent in the current year have no ringing in it. It is, of course, the totality of the State budget that determines which priorities seem to be important to the majority of the Grand Duchy. As an example, in the period 2005 and beyond there has been a significant increase in investment in research, infrastructure, education and in a number of key areas building on the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. So I think that at the end of the debate, or at the end of the day, as it's called in debates, first and foremost, there's a discussion about how to prioritize them about $1,000 billion spent in the annual government budgets, and there's no earmarking of certain funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e635	I couldn't humiliate myself when there was a line again. The finance minister said in his speech that he was open to considering new asset classes, and then my question is: is art included in that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e642	It doesn't, to say what it is. Moreover, the state has an excellent system of buying-in of art in connection with construction that is being built in Norway, but I have no plans to let the SPU invest directly in art. Some companies we invest in may have collections of art, but it's a completely different matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e647	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e652	There has been a remarkably quiet and calm debate, taking into account the sums we are debating. I think in many ways it's a strength that there's a great deal of consensus about how we manage the State pension fund and the amounts that are there. I want to link some comments to this with fees, because I think everyone is interested in keeping the level of fees down. Of course, it's an objective to control the level of fees. There has also appeared the term 'downside bonus' in some notes. I would very much warn against that, because there are huge amounts managed by each administrator. Should you start setting down the bonus, I think it would mean that you had to push up the fixed fees quite considerably, precisely because even a tiny little downside bonus could quickly mean that you got negative fees to manage a fund. I guess we've all been looking at fees for single managers of 500 million. kr and such things – I think they're all over it. But the key challenge in relation to a bonus system is to design the system so that the administrator has the same interests as the fund, and that's not an easy task. When you sit down and try to figure out how to actually reconcile an administrator's interest with a fund's interest, like the State pension fund abroad, it's extremely difficult, and I look forward to the debate on how to actually design such rules. I think that's a debate that the Stortinget should have almost every year, because it's not possible to predict everything that's going on, and it's also not possible to predict all the outcomes of such an administration agreement. So there I realize that the Minister of Finance has a difficult task. I look in and around the debates about it, and hope we avoid too many suggestions of 500 million. kr to one administrator. So to the last point, it's also commented that you hired Mercer to take a look at the climate challenges. I think this is also a problem you should approach with a very big scepticism. I think there are limits to what models can actually predict, and when it comes to starting to predict how the State pension fund is going to adapt to climate change that is highly uncertain, I think you only have one alternative: to adapt to the ongoing challenges that arise when you see how climate change actually turns out. That doesn't mean you shouldn't be able to spend any money to see if it's possible to get any scenarios, but I'll say at the same time that you should keep those costs down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e663	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4997]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e679	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e690	The Financial Market Communication is a Communication on the evolution and regulation of financial markets in 2010. Overall, this Communication provides a very useful insight into the financial markets, both nationally and internationally, and the discussion in the Financial Committee shows that there is broad consensus among the political parties here in the Chamber on the vast majority of issues dealt with. I will therefore use my time as the case rapporteur to briefly draw out some of the most important elements from the setting. Growth in the world economy rose in 2010 after the outbreak of the financial crisis. But large budget deficits and high government debt in several developed countries make the further development uncertain. The comprehensive support measures aimed at the banking and financial sectors, an active counter-cyclical policy and the effects of the automatic stabilisers have imposed very high debt burdens on many countries. Cleaning up in so-called old fun becomes an extensive and demanding job in many countries in the future. In the meantime, growth has also not been strong enough to improve the situation in the labour markets, and very high unemployment is still seen in many countries outside the borders of Norway. An overall committee is therefore concerned about the consequences of persistently high unemployment on the economy and on individuals, when, despite the decline in some countries in general, unemployment remains well above the pre-financial crisis level. It is also gratifying that a joint committee is united that, after all, we in Norway have been successful through the financial crisis. Norwegian governance quickly turned into an expansive monetary and financial policy, which in turn gave strong impetus to domestic demand. In addition, the petroleum industry has kept up and dampened the setback for the oil-related industry. We have been lucky, but the good situation we are now in – or at least a better situation – does not come about by itself, it is the result of a number of political choices. We too in Norway are facing challenges in the future. New turbulence can quickly enter the Norwegian financial system. Our best defense against international setbacks is in that context the ability to keep order in our own house in the future. An overall committee is also concerned that an increasing number of households in Norway have a debt burden that makes them vulnerable to higher interest rates, increased unemployment, or falls in housing prices. The consequences of higher interest rates may pose a threat to the economy of individuals, but also to overall financial stability, if people can no longer afford to serve their loans. Furthermore, an overall committee underlines in the nomination this year as last year, how the Norwegian deposit guarantee scheme has been important in ensuring depositor rights and stabilising deposit coverage in banks. At this point, the Committee fully endorses the government's work towards the EU in order to ensure the continuation of the Norwegian guarantee. We are also positive that the government is working for Norway to take an active part in the work that is taking place in the wake of the financial crisis by introducing new and better regulation of financial markets. Furthermore, the Committee has demonstrated in its opinion that one of the issues that has had particular international focus is issues relating to banks as so-called systemically important institutions. An overall committee considers that there is an important response to excessive risk-taking in banks internationally that infrastructure, legislation and plans are in place so that key and necessary functions in so-called insolvent financial institutions can be continued during possible liquidation. From the majority of the committee, the government parties, in addition to the Christian People's Party, we have in the vote a moment when it is pointed out that in many countries there are now discussions on how to ensure that financial institutions pay more the costs of government assistance to the banking and financial sectors. The same batches consider that this issue may also be relevant in Norway. We will come back to the discussion on these proposals when the Storting will examine the Financial Crisis Committee's report later. Finally, in the case of an incursion, two almost identical sentences have sprung into the majority's note at the very last time in Chapter 10.2, page 14 of the option. The second last sentence of the majority’s closing remark shall be deleted and it shall be deleted. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e720	The financial market notification for 2010 provides a comprehensive overview of this important sector. As always, the Communication provides a good and comprehensive overview, and in most areas, the Financial Committee has also delivered unanimous comments, as we have done over several years. It is probably in many ways a strength that we can agree on the situation description, and it may be that in some areas we can of course disagree on how to solve some challenges. As part of the process of notification, consultations with the Governor have also been held this year. The central bank manager Øystein Olsen made a solid effort during the hearing, in my view, and I would like to express satisfaction with clear answers to the committee’s questions – there was an absolutely clear answer from the governor. It was a positive experience – very good! The cancellation message also gives a look back on last year. But so important: when we have this message for treatment, it is the situation in Europe and the rest of the world that we should pay the most attention, like last year. Several European countries face enormous challenges. The euro is under considerable pressure and large amounts are granted in an attempt to stabilise economies. This also has consequences for Norway. With an open economy and a large export-oriented business, there will be the economic turmoil in our main markets. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that we in Norway must also be willing to take action to facilitate the business situation of our country, if and when this type of action may be needed. It was quick to act when you had the financial crisis. However, after-effects are still there, and even now one must be willing to get on the road quickly with action if necessary. For Norway, which has money on book, such a situation we have in Europe can still be positive in some areas. Through the proposals of the Progress Party, which will be examined in the revised national budget tomorrow, we have challenged the Stortinget to provide significantly more funds for necessary investments at home. And it's like with high unemployment in many European countries, you have what is commonly called the buyer's market. We who have financial resources should now use such a situation for the necessary development of Norwegian infrastructure through larger tenders, where we can make use of the available capacity in Europe. This will also be positive for those countries that are now struggling with high unemployment. Let me then move on to the situation of our financial market. I want to refer to what the committee expresses, in the following way in the setting: ‘The Committee will point out that robust and efficient financial markets and payment systems require sound risk management and soundness of financial institutions. At the same time, the Committee notes that Norwegian regulation of financial markets has proved successful in the context of the international financial crisis. The robustness of Norwegian banks was also strengthened in 2010, as a result of an increase in the core capital adequacy in 2009. However, the Committee points out that Norway has a small and open economy, and that it is therefore essential for our interests with sound financial systems also at global level. The Committee is therefore committed to the active follow-up of international initiatives in these areas by the government.’.» I would like to make it clear that the regulations Norway has had in this area have been adopted with the unanimous agreement of the Stortinget. So we have all been in favour of the need for good and sensible regulation. As far as further work is concerned, it is important, in the view of the Progress Party, to achieve a level of regulation consistent with the rest of the world as far as possible. If necessary, greater and stricter restrictions in Norway could become a handicap in competition. Here it is important to coordinate regulations as far as possible, and so far I note that this has also been the government's expressed wish. It is also natural to pay attention to the deposit guarantee scheme, as the rapporteur also did in his speech, in the course of the year's discussion of the financial market notification. The importance of maintaining today’s good and sensible deposit regime in Norway is a global increase. The party of progress will therefore give praise to the government for the work that has been done. We note that we are not quite in target, but we have faith that we will be able to achieve a deposit guarantee scheme that will be positive for the Norwegian people and the Norwegian banking system. Finally, I would like to make a joint remark from the opposition regarding the publication of the minutes of the meetings of the Governing Council of the Bank of Norway. As you know, the records are not published today. Among other things, Norway’s Bank Watch has repeatedly highlighted the importance of such publication. This is a view shared by the Progress Party. Such publication would be to practise more publicity and would be positive. Therefore, the foreground party is pleased that an overall opposition is behind this remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e747	The financial market notification for 2010 addresses the assumptions and prospects for financial stability. A review shows that the crisis packages have been effective, but that there is considerable uncertainty about the further development of the international economy, of which several international actors are also involved in these days. The rise is, of course, explained primarily by the expansion of government economic policies, unanimous decisions in the Stortinget and the fact that many companies build up their stocks. Extensive relief measures aimed at the banking and financial sectors and a highly expansive fiscal policy have imposed high levels of debt burden on many countries, which will impose increased challenges on Europe and thereby indirect Norway in the coming years as well. The right is very concerned with the competitiveness of Norwegian industry in the international market. Relatively high productivity growth in business has over several years compensated for relatively high wage settlements compared to our competitors. The front-line payroll model has resulted in wage and salary settlements for the competitive sector being premissive for other wage and salary negotiations and performance. It's been a break this year. Even at the hearing of the Finance Committee on the State Budget, the KS said that their own salary line might have gone beyond expectations. The state and municipal sectors were over the private sector. In our view, it can no longer continue. The 2011 World Competition Yearbook of the Swiss Higher Education College IMD was released in May 2011. The report shows that Sweden climbs from 6th to 4th place on the list of best competitive countries, while Norway falls from 9th to 12th place. This report shows that Norway’s wage growth is much higher than the growth in our productivity. The report points to several factors that have led Norway to fall on the list: a complex tax system with high taxes, a small flexible labour market, little innovation and a more closed economy. Also included in the list of public sector efficiency – perhaps not surprisingly – is Norway from 7th to 11th place. The right is also showing today that the government is showing little willingness and ability to address these challenges. Over time, impaired competitiveness and the lack of modernisation of the public sector will undermine the well-being we all want in Norway. The Norwegian State has not incurred direct net accounting costs related to the financial crisis measures. The State has received income from both the State Bond Fund and the State Financial Fund for the entire period, all of which have, in fact, been on market terms. On this basis, we see in the Right that it is not relevant to impose a further stability charge with the aim of covering the costs of the country. Financial services are mainly exempt from VAT. This means that the financial industry does not pay the same kind of taxes as other parts of Norwegian business and international business. However, the right would stress that this exemption applies largely to the whole industry globally and would warn the government against imposing Norwegian excise duties which undermine the competitiveness of Norwegian financial industry. The Ministry of Finance writes: ‘The Ministry of Finance sees Norway as complying with the new liquidity rules of the Basel Committee relatively early. The new liquidity regimes can be introduced faster in Norway than in many other countries. The reason is that the economic development of Norway is good and that financial institutions are solid. It gives us greater freedom to assess the appropriate liquidity requirements in the light of the lessons learned from the international financial crisis.» In the wake of the financial crisis, there is a broad consensus that new and better regulation of financial markets is to be introduced internationally, and extensive processes are in place to achieve this in the G20, the IMF, the OECD, the Basel Committee, the Financial Stability Board, the FSB, and the EU. The right is in favour of the work now being done by the Basel Committee and in the EU with new capital adequacy requirements. The new rules will lead to changes both in terms of soundness and liquidity. New requirements will help to make the financial industry more robust in the event of new crises. However, the Right share some of the scepticism that the Financial Supervisory Authority has to implement its own requirements in Norway or the Nordic region. The right refers to the press release sent by the FSA and Skogstad Aamo on the day of the financial industry: «For the time being, caution should be exercised in formulating Norwegian or Nordic specific capital adequacy requirements. However, it is realistic to expect a strengthening of the capital adequacy between 1 and 2 percentage points in order to meet market requirements in the light of the new international requirements. In addition to the fact that a large part of the annual profits need to be used for increased equity, there may be a need for between 30 and 50 billion from the market.» The right, like the Progress Party, will take the opportunity to give praise to the government in connection with the Norwegian deposit guarantee. Although it has not been formally adopted, everything suggests that Norway is able to maintain the Norwegian deposit guarantee. Thus, the government and the finance minister have done a very good job for Norwegian business, for Norwegian private customers and the confidence in banks in general. That's a good job, and a total big deal is going to do it, I think. Right-wing fears that Norwegian specific requirements and any new taxes on the financial industry will weaken industry’s competitiveness and could undermine growth potential. It could be more difficult for Norwegian companies to obtain loans, and the price of credit could go up. In the Financial Market Communication, it has also commented that Norway’s Bank has gradually exercised more transparency, both in general and in monetary policy. The right supports the publication of the minutes of the Governing Council's interest-rate meetings and seems to have to continue. Right-hand share this view and believe it will be a natural continuation of Norway's Bank's transparency, as Norway's Bank Watch says. It is appropriate to publish the elements discussed in the interest meetings of the Governing Council, without, however, linking them to each member of the Governing Board. The right considers that such a decision would provide an even better public debate on the conduct of monetary policy and would be suitable for further strengthening the reputation of the Bank of Norway. We also refer to the Right's proposal for a Financial Policy Council that was just voted down by the Storting, which could also contribute to it, but the Minister of Finance has set up a kind of selection to do something that the Fiscal Council could have done. The right refers to the restrictions on the freedom to agree to bonuses dealt with in Prop. 117 L for 2009-2010 and voted against. In the right, it is important that moderation is demonstrated in the financial industry. It is a particular responsibility for the boards to ensure this. Several have found that high bonuses have been replaced with a significant increase in fixed wages. It appears that this has been counterbalanced by the industry to restrictions on bonus agreements, as well as the use of more and more ‘sign-on fees’ to change the employer. In this context, we have a question mark as to whether the government's tightening has worked as intended, and so we recall that the Right voted against this restriction that the government has proposed. The Social Security Fund is also part of the financial market notification and is responsible for managing the State pension fund Norway and the State bond fund on behalf of the Ministry. In 2010, you got a result of NOK 17.8 B.C.E. kr, which gives a pretty nice return of 15.3 pst. Nominal. SPN no longer purchases net shares in Norway, as the fund is not provided with new funds. But it might be worth remembering that the state is a very big player at Oslo Stock Exchange, both through the ownership positions in Statoil, Telenor, DnB NOR, Norsk Hydro and through the investments in SPN as well. We also record that the financial fund, which was established on 6 March 2009, with a capital of 50 billion. kr, that capital is largely intact. The aim was ‘to temporarily contribute core capital to Norwegian banks in order to strengthen banks and improve the ability of banks to maintain normal lending activities’. The experience showed – fortunately – that the need was considerably less than thought and fear. Small banks applied, and it was finally granted NOK 4.1 billion. SEK of the 50 billion. kr. Now only 1.5 billion remains. Loans broken down into 25 small banks and an early liquidation of the fund is expected once the banks have paid back. We look forward to a dialogue with the department and the government about it. The sovereign bond fund was also established in March 2009 with a similar framework. The purpose of that fund was to contribute to increased liquidity and better access to capital in the credit bond market in Norway. By the end of 2010, it was only 9.3 billion. kr placed on the market. In fact, however, the fund has contributed more to indirect positive effects on this market and has also made money for the state. The government has announced that this fund will be wound up once in 2014, and we want to participate in that dialogue further on about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e795	This is an interesting and important account. We've even got a new chapter this year with a historical look at structural developments from 1970 to today. The most striking thing is that the financial sector has had huge growth as a share of the Norwegian economy. This, of course, means that we need to have a particular alert look at the development of this sector. It was also stressed recently when Norway was thrown into a financial crisis together with large parts of the world. We have learned a good part of this and the consequences of the Norwegian banking crisis in the 1990s. We have learned that regulation is important and that deregulation has clear dangers associated with it. We've learned that the problems in the financial sector can hit the real economy quickly and vigorously in ways we might not have foreseen. We have learned that the financial sector should not become too dominant. We've learned the importance of regulating bonuses in a sensible way. We've learned how important it is with systematic and good supervision. We have learned that welfare states can also be important as buffers against crises, and that it can be mildly discussed whether it is right for the financial sector to be protected from taxes and charges paid by other sectors. These are discussions that we're going to go into this autumn and that we're looking forward to taking from SV's side. It's kind of heartbreaking scenes that play out in Europe a day. There is high unemployment in many countries, and youth unemployment is in many places twice as high as unemployment elsewhere. This gives rise to particular challenges both in terms of the risk of instability, the loss of confidence in the future, the loss of faith in their ability to have future say in that country, the fact that many choose to emigrate, the fact that many choose to look for destructive environments and the danger of poverty. One of the main reasons why we have our main focus on combating unemployment is that it distorts the balance of power between employers and employees and causes workers to be exposed to extreme vulnerability and the possibility of being pressured into accepting conditions that would otherwise never have been accepted. So you're at risk of a lasting change in society and a strong setback in the rights that have been acquired. This is why trade unions are also very closely involved in the discussions and demonstrations that are currently taking place in Europe. Many people don't know what kind of old age they'll get, and many will be very dependent on their family in the future. Alone mothers are referred to the poverty fund, even in countries that have traditionally taken relatively good care of at least vulnerable groups. Many people lose their homes or have to live with their parents and do not have the opportunity to move out. We also hear about people in their 30s who don't even have the opportunity to have children, who have to choose them away because you can't afford to have children. There is a great degree of bitterness associated with the fact that those who caused the crisis, either by providing it through deregulation or by introducing greed into the system, are largely not held responsible for the consequences of the crisis. Then we can go to our own country and see how well we've managed through this crisis, and it's not random. These include: As a result of powerful measures that were put in place, and not least that we have put up as massive an effort as we have made on public sector appropriations, which, in turn, have kept the wheels going in the private sector, among others. in construction industries. The fact that we also invested so much in study places and in strengthening GIEK and Innovation Norway and guarantees, not least to banks, was very important. We cannot understand why the minority chooses to park several of the proposals of the Financial Crisis Committee so effectively, especially in the light of the current situation in the countries around us, and that we need additional instruments in Norway, too, to prevent new crises. We believe that we need to go into these debates in an open way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e814	The financial market notification is about assumptions and prospects for financial stability in Norway. I would like to start by reminding you that in a market economy it is important to maintain the normal situation for the price of money, namely that it will cost to borrow and it will pay off to save. There should be no political competition to become popular by denying this main line. As I said in my previous post, we now have a low interest rate because of our competitiveness and the need to keep the value of Norwegian kroner down. People's saving and raising of loans is strongly influenced by real interest rates after tax. Tax rules are therefore important, and it is a national issue. There is an overall committee that is concerned that more and more households in Norway have a debt burden that makes them vulnerable to higher interest rates, increased unemployment and falls in housing prices. It is important to develop public vocabulary. In the case of legislative processes following the financial crisis, the big discussion is those which have an implicit state guarantee or which in many countries are called Too big to fail. There is an important international work in this area, including: in the Bank for International Settlements in Switzerland. What we need to be aware of is that once the crisis has gotten a little less, the counterclaims come back with great force to ensure that no changes are made, so that the risk can be maintained because it gives the greatest return to those who think that way. Banks with implicit State guarantee, i.e. banks that obtain more reasonable funding in the bond market due to better credit ratings than without government expectations, have been discussed in the Financial Crisis Committee. The Financial Crisis Committee pointed out that the largest financial group in Norway, DnB NOR, has an implicit State guarantee worth between 1 billion. kr and 4 brd. kr. It is alarming that all parties, except the Right, say in a note that a ‘proves that the implicit State guarantee can be regarded as State aid.’ Language is power. Select here the right hand side as the only party not to call this implicit state guarantee by its proper name. It is interesting, moreover, that the majority of the committee, the government parties and the Christian People's Party indicate that in many countries there is a debate about the financial institutions to pay for the costs associated with the authorities' relief measures to the banking and financial sector. This is an important debate. The debate in Norway has largely been on non-market measures, i.e. stability tax and VAT on financial services, which are important and very topical, but one should also look at regulatory requirements that make it more expensive in a market way for financial institutions to take large risks. This was the background to the crisis – regulatory requirements that follow the market at all times, thus making pricing correct. It is an action that needs to be discussed in greater detail, and I know that there are environments in Norway that are very concerned about it. With regard to the equity requirements of financial institutions, Norway has greater opportunities to assess and determine appropriate equity requirements than other countries at sea. I know that in the past, before the financial crisis, it was a political culture that we still had to weaken the equity requirements. We saw how it went. It is therefore good to point out in the configuration that we have greater opportunities to determine this, and it must be presented as a competitive advantage for our financial institutions by making it safer to interact with them because they have a safer basis in their equity. Interestingly, in the case of the deposit guarantee scheme, the Norwegian authorities are becoming increasingly disillusioned because it is contributing to such stability. Finally, the International Monetary Fund. There is also a very central note from all parties, with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, saying that the International Monetary Fund should not, on an ideological basis, make demands for privatisation and liberalisation when the Fund chooses to grant loans to countries. It's important. It is strongly up to the Right and the Progressive Party to say that the International Monetary Fund can, on an ideological basis, make demands for privatisation and liberalisation. This is the case, to a large extent, for public infrastructure, which is very central to achieving a well-functioning society, and which in many cases is monopolistic, on which a private operator can draw a monopoly profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e838	A lot has already been said about the international economic crisis and how Norway is in a special position with robust government finances, which we just discussed in the SPU management case, so I'm not going to repeat it. I will go straight to three steps that I ask the government to assess in the follow-up to the Financial Crisis Committee's position: There is a need for monetary policy reform that more effectively counteracts strong credit growth and the development of destabilising financial bubbles. It is necessary to impose stricter requirements on the coverage of equity and liquidity reserves in banks and other financial undertakings, which were also subject to the representative Lundtigen. We need to strengthen the diversity and competitiveness of the financial industry, as my predecessors in the Financial Committee, Terje Johansen, were – and are – very concerned about. I'm not sure if we've fully taken the consequences of an important lesson from the Norwegian banking crisis in the 1980s, which was re-updated by the latest financial crisis. In order to counteract excessive credit growth, it is not sufficient for Norway’s Bank to operate with a narrow inflation target related to the consumer price index. Experience has shown that this somewhat narrow approach is not sufficient to address the problems created by strong money and credit growth, problems that first come to light through inflated prices of dwellings, properties and securities – prices that do not appear in the consumer price index. That is why I believe that an investigation is necessary with the aim of extending the mandate of the Bank of Norway, so that this also seems more stabilising to the overall credit growth and the price development of properties and securities. The overall objective of international cooperation on new financial regulatory reforms is to develop a banking and financial system that will act more stabilisingly in economic development and contribute to reducing both the risks and the negative effects of future financial crises. The Left believes that Norway should make an additional contribution to this work by being among the first countries to implement new and more stringent international requirements for banks and other financial undertakings, requirements that strengthen resilience and resilience to crises, based on increased risk-weighted requirements for equity coverage and stricter requirements for liquidity reserves. In this way, individual financial undertakings will also be able to withstand short-term liquidity crises without public support. Finally, one of the most important lessons from recent banking and financial crises is that local and self-owned savings banks have been the most stabilising part of the Norwegian financial industry. The left considers that it is of great importance for both the Norwegian economy and many communities that the decentralised diversity represented by savings banks is ensured in the future. Therefore, the Left will circle around the institutional status of savings banks as self-owned financial institutions and ensure that all fiscal regulation and measures are as equal as possible with small and large actors and contribute to the strengthening and strengthening of the role of competition surveillance in the financial market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e861	This Communication clearly shows the importance of financial stability. I would also like to commend the President of the Central Bank for the statement he made in the Committee: sober, but with clear challenges also to the politicians, that is. us. I'm not going to repeat everything that's right that was said by the case rapporteur and others, but just point to a couple of relationships. It is the debt of households and the degree of indebtedness with which many can now have problems, with increasing interest rates. I even saw that the Consumer Council now asked the government to improve the BSU so that it was possible to acquire equity. After all, I think the Consumer Council is going very far in making political recommendations, but now it's not. It's interesting, at least, that such a body now sees this in context. I do not know if the Minister of Finance has responded to this challenge – otherwise he can do it here – if there is any reason to look at the BSU, just to give incentives to increase savings and more equity, so that you do not have a debt ratio, for example. on mortgages, which will be impossible to deal with in the event of an increase in interest rates. Clearly, the financial crisis remains a topic when we discuss this communication. That crisis showed that banks had on average too little equity, not least internationally, too much short-term market financing and too small buffers. With the situation we had at the end of the 1980s, it is clear that Norwegian banking industry and Norwegian politicians learned something at the time that made us stand better rusted this time. At the same time, the state also had financial muscles on its side that no other country had, which enabled us to meet the banking industry. But the question now is: how will the government deal with the proposals of the Committee on Financial Crisis? For example, you want to do this. Take a Nordic initiative, which makes you go a little ahead of other European countries, or will you, as the industry of course wants, sit quietly and join in what all other countries will eventually find it necessary to do? Some of the background that this time the crisis did not become so great for Norwegian banks was that Norwegian politicians went ahead of the last time it was a crisis. There is also something that needs to be taken into account in the evaluation of the measures that are now being recommended. What is absolutely certain is that the administrative powers and authorities must have the means at their disposal to manage a financial industry in such a crisis. There I have to say that I hope the government will follow up many of the proposals that the sample has made. In conclusion, I would like to add a few words to the International Monetary Fund – Per Olaf Lundtägen was also involved. We are quite clear that there can be a lot of good advice given by the IMF, but that the IMF should operate ideological political governance of some countries is unacceptable. That is why – together with the government parties – we have been involved in the comment to which it was referred. I think it is an important principle that we separate political governance from advice, which may, of course, be in place, but which cannot have political motives in it first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e874	We are discussing the 2010 Financial Market Communication in an external framework of unrest. There is reason to remind ourselves that Norway is a country in the world, and that it is the international situation that in many ways puts the framework around the discussion we have today. And here's the big challenge. The reason why this is important to us is that a new turbulence can be introduced internationally into the Norwegian financial industry and into the Norwegian economy. If the turmoil in sovereign markets related to the situation in exposed euro area countries should spread further, it could result in losses in Norwegian financial institutions, increased risk margins in credit markets and a weakening of credit offers to households and businesses. Until this year, we have also seen significant effects of what is happening internationally, for example. in the context of political unrest both in the Middle East and in North Africa, inter alia: through higher oil prices. Several speakers have pointed out that the debt burden in Norwegian households is high and is likely to increase further in the years to come. A significant proportion of banks' loans to the household sector are loans to households with very high indebtedness. These households are vulnerable to a higher level of interest rates or to a weaker development in the economy. There is a low level of interest over time that has led many households to over-indebtedness. I would say that one makes sense to expect that both the Norwegian and the international interest rates will increase in the future. Improvements in international financial market regulation resulting from experience from the financial crisis have an impact on the prospects for financial and economic stability. For example, the introduction of new soundness rules will include: the Basel III requirements contribute to lower risks in the international financial system, but many other improvements are unlikely to be made within several years. As a direct response to, inter alia: the representative Syversen took up, I had a meeting with my Swedish colleague early in May, where we agreed to look at the possibilities of an overall Nordic initiative in the context of the introduction of the new capital requirements in line with Basel III, and whether we are going to move somewhat faster than what is in the intention. Otherwise, there is also an international regulatory development. New rules in the context of experience from the financial crisis – back to the Basel Committee, which proposes stricter capital and liquidity requirements. The European Commission is working on the follow-up of the rules in the EU. I think one in the years to come can expect increased international cooperation in the financial sector. Financial industry is such a global and technological industry that it is important that it also sees the development of rules in a wider international context. Then I want to use a few words on the deposit guarantee scheme. As already mentioned in the debate today, the government has worked actively to enable Norway to continue its 2 million coverage. kr per customer per bank. In the recent opinion of the ECON Committee, i.e. the financial committee in the European Parliament has introduced a provision allowing Norway to maintain a level of coverage of 2 million. kr, combined with a condition that a level of coverage higher than EUR 100000 can only be offered to depositors resident in the country in question, in this case Norway, which could prevent distortions of competition. The Council shall now proceed to work on the matter. Later in the process, there will be so-called trialogue negotiations between Parliament, the Council and the Commission. It is now expected that there will be a decision after the summer, i.e. under the Polish Presidency. I had a meeting with my Polish colleague a short time ago on the matter – to keep the matter warm. I would also like to commend the Committee and the committee members for their wholehearted support, and for working against their party traps around Europe. It has contributed to the result so far. Then I would like to remind you that a 1 January of this year set up a new system of financial supervision in the European Union. Three new supervisory bodies oversee individual institutions, so-called microsupervisory bodies, while a new systemic risk board oversees the financial system as a whole, so-called macroprudential supervision. Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein will have permanent observer posts in the micro-supervisory bodies and will be able to participate in the System Risk Board on an ad hoc basis, as it is called in the EU language, but not where individual countries or individual enterprises are discussed. I would like to stress that the government will ensure that Norway does not in any way transfer sovereignty to the new supervisory bodies. It is an interesting chapter in the financial market communication on the development of the financial industry in the last 40 years. What has happened is that this industry has grown big and significant. It is an important industry for Norway. And what perhaps not many people think about today is that the Minister of Finance not only has a responsibility for lawmaking, supervision and control, but is also the Minister of Industry for this industry. It is a task that I take seriously, considering both developing a forward-looking regulatory framework and having a good framework around the industry, but also contributing to this industry becoming a good, competitive and forward-looking industry. If one were to describe the short history from 1970 onwards, one could say it in the following way: from rationality and regulation to release, crisis and consolidation. We are now in the consolidation phase, which is important for both Norwegian and international finance industries. And the other new thing that has happened in this period is that money is no longer just money, to say it that way, but also has become a commodity and a product that in itself is to give returns and new products. So we're living in an exciting time in financial markets. In the case of the Bank of Norway and the exercise of monetary policy, the regulation is final from 29 March 2001. There is no reason to do anything else, for this, along with the rule of action, which came the same day, has served us well, and I expect this to serve us well in the future as well. Last May, Norway’s Bank increased its interest rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 2pst. The interest rate was then kept unchanged for the rest of the year. The Bank of Norway has estimated that the interest rate will increase to just over 2.5 pst. towards the end of 2011. What is important now, as I said earlier, is to take on board that both in Norway and internationally expect interest rates to increase in the future, but, of course, economic developments both in Europe – the different countries in Europe, both inside and outside the euro zone – and in Norway, will determine how much and when this happens. So a point about the State bond fund. The Public Security Fund has an important role to play in managing the government bond fund. The notification refers to a corporate event related to a bond investment that led the fund to hold shares for a shorter period. In a letter to Stortinget on 14 June, I have informed about another corporate event that is linked to a bond investment in the State bond fund. I believe it is important that the Social Security Fund has a sufficient degree of freedom to safeguard the fund's values in this kind of special situation, and I am committed to clarify this in the mandate of the State Bond Fund. Finally, a few lines about the International Monetary Fund. I would say that the IMF is important to Norway. Norway is an important supporter of the IMF, and it is also important to ensure both that the IMF has sufficient lending capacity and that the IMF governance bodies reflect developments in the international economy and changed country-to-country strength relationships. It is also reflected in the quota reform that is now taking place in the IMF. I just want to stress that Norway places great emphasis on the work of the IMF. It is an important body to ensure international financial stability in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e910	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e914	Let me first thank the Minister of Finance for a status update on the work on the deposit guarantee scheme. As the Minister of Finance probably registered by my post, I am very pleased with the job of the government and not least the Minister of Finance in this area. The question relates to the comment contained in the attitude of an overall opposition, which refers to the possible publication of the minutes of the interest-rate meetings at the Bank of Norway. I have recorded that in the many parties and in other contexts, the government and many politicians talk about the need for more publicity, and the importance of getting the important debates into public space. Many actors point out that it may be a good idea to have the minutes published by the interest rate meetings at the Bank of Norway, in line with practice in many other countries. I would like to get some views from the Minister of Finance on whether this is something he actually shares and sees the need for, and whether it might be possible to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e923	First, transparency is also important when it comes to issues relating to interest rate fixing and monetary policy. In fact, the central bank has gained a great deal of recognition for the way in which it has done so, when it comes to making public the assessments behind the interest rate setting. One presents the interest rate path, one presents a separate note in retrospect of the Governing Council meeting, where one refers to the main considerations that the Governing Council has highlighted, and one also publishes important things in the Monetary Policy Report. So, the Ministry of Finance places great emphasis on openness. That's one of the reasons why we're participating in the financing of Norway's Bank Watch. However, with regard to the specific question — whether Norway’s Bank should continue to publish reports — it is actually a matter that I leave to the Norwegian Bank and the Norwegian Bank’s main board of directors to assess. But experience shows that they've put great emphasis on openness, and I expect that it's also a line forward from the central bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e930	The Minister of Finance suggested what I had to say about Norwegian or Nordic special requirements and faster capital adequacy requirements than in EU countries and in other countries. There is an overall financial industry that is reasonably concerned that it will happen, without knowing what the other requirements will be for the other countries, and that one thus starts in advance. The Financial Supervisory Authority writes in a press release: ‘For the time being, caution should be exercised in formulating Norwegian or Nordic specific capital adequacy requirements.’ Financial supervision warns against the practice open up today by the Minister of Finance from the Chair. What reasons does the Minister of Finance have for this? And what kind of dialogue is there with the Norwegian financial industry ahead of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e942	What I was referring to was a meeting I had with my Swedish colleague, where we discussed the possibility of seeing whether the Nordic region should move a little faster in terms of building up the capital and soundness of the industry than what is foreseen in the Basel III timetable. This is important for two reasons. One consideration, of course, is the speed with which one can compare with the competitiveness of the Norwegian financial industry. On the other hand, in a world where the soundness of the financial industry can be called into question, I believe that having a solid financial industry with good equity coverage, with good liquidity and with great confidence, is a competitive advantage. These are important questions where one must weigh these two considerations. I'm going to come back to that question when we've examined this a little bit more closely in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e951	In an article in Today's Business Today, on dn.no, it says that LO-delede Argo Securities is one of the most exposed buyers of personnel, with high bonuses, with high ‘sign-on fees’ – and with LO's vice-leader The Solbaken on the board. In the light of the red-green criticism of bonuses and the red-green criticism of ‘sign-on fees’ and others.: Does the Council of State consider LO to be a double moral driver? And is what LO is involved in this matter, in line with red-green policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e958	Now I have not been involved in the matter to which reference is made. I actually saw the title, but I didn't read the article – I didn't get it until I got to Stortinget. But I want to assume that LO acts as you talk, also in those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e963	For some of us, after reading the title, there is no need to go further into the article. Well, there might be something there, too. I want to go a little further on this with the Financial Crisis Committee. The IMF and the sample agree that the financial industry has particularly favourable tax conditions. The IMF proposes, inter alia: an activity tax on the financial sector. Denmark – with a civil government, I say – has introduced some kind of tax on the industry. Representative Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe wrote in Today's Business: «We owe all those who lost their jobs and homes during the financial crisis to settle the particular conditions of the industry.» On a scale from one to ten, how does the Minister of Finance agree with her that the industry has special conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e977	It is true that this industry, for example: does not have value added tax and is not subject to any part of such things as other industries are. But at the same time, it's important to be aware of a few things. First of all, there is a European work. There are now several European countries that consider introducing a balance sheet tax, or activity tax, as one calls it. It is clear that in our follow-up to the Committee on Financial Crisis, we will draw attention to what is happening in Europe in order to introduce similar things in Norway. Secondly, Norwegian banks pay a fee to the Swedish Insurance Fund. What we're assessing here is whether to make the fee mandatory, because today there are some special rules attached to when the fund is filled up. But these are questions that we will come back to in the follow-up to the Financial Crisis Committee. I promise that this will be carefully considered, but the answer I am not prepared to give today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e984	We experience a strong movement and increase in childbirth in and around our big cities. At the same time, access to dwellings has not been proportionate, and the result is a price increase, which none of us want. According to the SSB, the price increase this year will be 7 pst. nationally, and, of course, higher in the press areas. The consequences can quickly become a new housing bubble and at least a faster interest rate increase than we want. I may not have a question, but more a challenge to the Minister of Finance. What does the Minister of Finance think it is important that we allow national politicians to do to counteract this and ensure access to housing in the press areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e991	The housing market is important both for those on the housing market and for those on the housing market. It also plays a very important role in the economy. These are examples of housing bubbles that have led to significant disruptions and, in fact, crises in the banking industry. So it's important to have that view of it. Housing policy and the housing market also have an important distribution policy side. The fact that people have to be able to get a good living is in many ways important for people to feel safe and feel good. What is happening now is that we will discuss this issue in the context of the distribution communication, which the government will present later in the autumn. It's a sample that's now going through housing policy. There will also be a housing report, which Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss at a later stage. This shows that this is a question that both the government and the opposition will have to discuss, and that we need to be concerned about in the future, because it means a lot both for the financial industry and for the individual that a good balance exists in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e998	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1002	Norway has been through the financial crisis in a good way. The crisis was the biggest backlash in the international economy after World War II, and we now see, as many have seen, that many countries in Europe have major challenges in dealing with their sovereign debt in the wake of the major banking and financial institutions rescues that were set in motion during the crisis. Growth in the world economy has taken place after the financial crisis, but growth has not been strong enough to significantly reduce unemployment in several European countries. This creates uncertainty and unrest in many individuals and in many countries. In an interview in Today's Business yesterday, the famous investor and philanthropist George Soros said that Europe needs a plan B, and pointed specifically to the situation in Greece. He said, ‘Europe cannot let Greece default the debt because it would be an uncontrolled default with disastrous consequences for Europe’. [[...]] Norway is also part of Europe, and the countries there are our neighbours and the closest trading partners. The unstable economic situation in Europe and elsewhere in the world can easily enter the Norwegian economy, which is small and vulnerable. At the same time, one should also be alert to changes in our own economy that can contribute to creating financial instability. Many households in Norway are heavily indebted. Most of the debt is related to housing, but many households also have high consumption debts. This creates problems for the individual at home even here if interest rates rise. If many households have problems paying their interest and repayments on loans at the same time, there may also be a threat in the next round to financial stability in Norway. Good consumer protection is essential for financial stability. The financial crisis committee, which presented its position now after Christmas, has a focus on it. In recent years, and especially in the years leading up to the financial crisis, we have failed to understand many examples of sales of composite and loan-funded savings products to consumers. They prided themselves on their bank or other financial institutions' advisors, and bought products on which they lost their savings. This has now been cleared up in Norway, but there is no reason not to focus on consumer protection equally fully. We have good regulation and good supervision of the financial market in our country. For example, the financial supervisory authority seized: vis-à-vis banks and financial institutions in respect of equity requirements in respect of the purchase of dwellings. In addition, there is an obligation to discourage customers who are unable to serve their debts. In April this year, the Ministry of Finance also stressed the importance of consumer focus, with reference to the complexity of the current financial market and the ever-new product solutions being marketed. That's good. It is also important that consumers themselves become more aware of products offered in the financial sector. To make it easier for consumers, there is a financial portal that facilitates the comparison of prices and services offered to us as consumers. The financial sector itself is also committed to developing this portal, and it is important that further development takes place in cooperation with industry. Most of the players in this important sector are serious and good business operators who have the same interest as us in not getting unprofessional products on the market – products that are helping to destroy the industry’s reputation in the next round. Confident customers – loan customers or customers who want to invest their savings – are also an advantage for the industry. In recent years, we have tightened up the law in a number of areas to avoid emerging financial crises. An example is tightening up the bonus rules. It is disappointing that the Progress Party and the Right are still not in favour of the absolutely necessary tightening of the remuneration and bonus rules in order to counter incentives for high and short-term risk-taking for employees in the financial sector. It's going very well in Norway. We have good governance and control of banks and financial institutions. However, I welcome the follow-up to the Financial Crisis Committee's position, which points to a number of areas where, like other countries, we can take action to secure ourselves against new crises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1026	Several relations in the Norwegian economy are now pointing in the right direction. Developments in the Norwegian economy are promising the demand for goods and services in the future. It's positive. But in Europe there are several countries with large budget deficits and high government debt, and there is a concern that this can spread further. We can read in Today's Business both yesterday and today about warnings about a new financial crisis, and we also saw that Obama warned against this today. Although things are going very well in Norway, it's important that we are awake for what can happen, and what actually happens around us. Then it is important that we put in place international rules that can help prevent a new crisis. Many countries are working on proposals for new rules and regulatory changes. The Basel Committee has introduced stricter capital and liquidity requirements for banks – the Basel III requirements. These requirements shall contribute to lower risks in the international financial system. However, it may take time for some of these changes to be made. The EU has also set up a new financial supervision system, and I believe it is unlikely that Norway should participate where we can in the new supervisory systems in the EU. I also mean that both here at home and in the North can, and must, be in the forefront. With new rules we can go leading to influence internationally. I also think it is important that we have good consumer protection on the financial market. Financial supervision is responsible for consumer protection and consumer information. It's not that easy for individuals to maneuver right between all products for savings, loans, pensions, etc. available on the market. And even though entrepreneurs have an obligation to provide relevant and understandable information about the different financial products, I actually think there are many who still don't understand what they're going into. In the financial crisis selection setting, this is also pointed out. They suggest measures to make it easier for consumers. These measures include requirements for consultation on the investment product and the design of standard risk profiles in the Inlet Pension Scheme. I want to say a little bit about the IMF as well. The report to the IEO, which is the IMF’s monitoring body, shows that from 2004 to 2007 neither warns the IMF countries where the crisis occurred, nor the Member States more generally, about the risks and weaknesses that led to the financial crisis. Nor did the IMF discuss the dangers of an increasingly relaxed credit policy for mortgage loans in the United States, or the dangers of the less transparent financial instruments that were designed to do so. On the contrary, the U.S. government was praised for not regulating too much, and for facilitating financial innovation! As late as in 2007, the IMF expressed good prospects for the world economy. I think this is pretty serious. This is actually the world's leading economists. But it is good that the IMF now sees the responsibility, and follows up the report. The report is important, and it provides a good basis for strengthening and improving the IMF and international protection against economic crises. And we see that as the world economy continues to improve, the IMF could move the focus from crisis management to try to learn from what has happened. Nevertheless, there is a great need for IMF loans, and the IMF has large outstanding loans. Then it is very important that the IMF should not, on an ideological basis, make demands for privatisation and liberalisation when the fund lends to states, and I am very pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party supports us in that remark. But the financial crisis has created great unemployment in the world. Over 30 million people have lost their jobs since 2007. The high unemployment rate among young people seems to me to be very serious. I can't think of anything more wasteful with resources than having young people walking without work. In Spain, the number of unemployed young people is actually up to 25 pst. I am very pleased that the IMF and the ILO will cooperate on measures to contribute to economic growth and development, and in particular to curb the increase in unemployment. The IMF has an important function that we need to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1054	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 4999]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1070	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1079	The majority has received a report from the Norwegian Bank’s representation that, in accordance with Section 5 of the Central Bank Act, has overseen the operation of the Norwegian Bank in 2010, including the State pension fund abroad, SPU. Following amendments to the Central Bank Act of 2009 and 2010, the supervisory report is now sent directly to Stortinget and not via the Ministry of Finance as before. The Committee is pleased with the new audit and supervisory system, which includes and emphasises that the representation of the Bank of Norway is the independent Supervisory Body of the Storting. The fact that, following the amendment of the law, the Storting also provides for compensation for the members of the representation also underlines that fact. It is important that there is maximum transparency around the activities of Norway’s Bank. The Bank manages State pension funds abroad, as there is a lot of attention both here in the United Kingdom, in the media and in society. It should also be missing when it is the Norwegian people's common savings account. The establishment and transparency of a new audit and supervisory system on the basis of the amendments to the Central Bank Act. The size has made a number of changes to the law whereby Norway’s Bank is audited by an external independent auditor appointed by its representative. At the same time, an independent supervisory secretariat is established to strengthen the ability of the representative to exercise supervision. The Committee is pleased that the representativeness of the Bank of Norway has worked actively to put in place the new system of audit and supervision. The Committee has noted – and is very satisfied – that no issues have been identified through the supervision of the Bank of Norway, which provides the basis for specific observations under the Central Bank Act. At the same time, we must understand that Norway’s Bank, and in particular the management of the State pension fund abroad, is a very complex activity. We have to assume that this will happen from time to time. However, it is important that Norway’s Bank seeks to reduce the likelihood of such errors to as low a level as possible. I would like to link some comments to one of the focus areas of the current year's representation. The Committee supports the priorities of the Representation for further supervisory work, and my comment will relate in particular to the work that the Representation will do in following established principles of interaction with the National Audit Office with regard to the management of the SPU. The size has dealt on several occasions with the distribution of responsibility for the supervision of the management of the State pension fund abroad, but I record that this is still an area that needs to be actively worked on. I would like to point out the importance of a clear division of responsibilities and roles between the various bodies that supervise and control the State pension fund. The size has decided to strengthen the supervisory and supervisory role of the board of directors. As I mentioned earlier, the representative is responsible for ensuring that the management of Norway's Bank takes place within the guidelines drawn up by the Ministry, based on the work of the external auditor. The National Audit Office is not responsible for auditing the Bank of Norway but for auditing the State pension fund’s external item in the national accounts. Furthermore, the Riksrevision shall review whether the Ministry of Finance’s management of the Fund is in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. The National Audit Office’s work on auditing the State pension fund’s foreign item in the national accounts is based on the work of the bank’s external auditor. In addition, the National Audit Office shall not carry out any checks on the Bank of Norway and SPU. This division of labour has clarified the Stortinget on several occasions, and the Committee has therefore noted that the representation has a high focus on the established principles of interaction with the National Audit Office in relation to the State pension fund abroad, so as to avoid ambiguities between the various bodies appointed by the Stortinget, which we have experienced in several contexts. The Committee welcomes the work carried out by the representative body of the Bank of Norway and is also pleased that the supervisory report has now been sent directly to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1096	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 4999]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1112	The matter under consideration is the result of decisions of the EEA Committee on 10 November last year which decided to amend Annex IX to the EEA Agreement to include Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities. The directive is also referred to as the UCITS IV Directive. To put it simply, this is the EEA passport of management companies, which provides for the establishment and management of a fund by a management company authorised and supervised in a Member State other than that in which the fund belongs. A unit trust shall be manageable directly across borders from the home Member State of a management company or through the establishment of a branch. In order for investors in funds managed on a cross-border basis not to be exposed to any additional or lower standards of protection, the Directive requires the Commission to regulate key areas such as: organisational, conflict of interest and sound conduct of business. The case also contains the decision of the EEA Committee to amend Annex IX to the EEA Agreement to include Directive 2009/110/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on the taking up and pursuit of the business of electronic money issuers, on the supervision of such activities and amending Directives 2005/60/EC and 2006/48/EC and repealing Directive 2000/46/EC. This means that access to the market for e-money companies will be easier and start-up capital requirements will be lower. Another key change is that the definition of e-money is made technology-neutral to take account of the likely developments. The matter may seem technical. But it's now that we're dealing more and more online, and we're using digital money today. We act across borders, and it is therefore necessary to adapt the legislation to the new everyday life we experience, and that consumer interests are also safeguarded in that kind of trade. The new e-money Directive lays down requirements for consumer protection and the repayment of paid-up capital from customers. With that I put the matter forward. The Committee has no further comments and consents to the approval of the decision of the EEA Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1125	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 4999]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1141	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 4999]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1157	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 4999]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1173	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 4999]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1189	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to three lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1200	The municipal bill is the government's communication to the local government about how the municipal economy will be in 2012. Municipalities shall be able to plan next year and be prepared for any changes. Therefore, the municipal bill is now being dealt with before the summer. The final framework for the municipal sector is adopted in the context of the State budget. The biggest change in 2012 will be the interaction reform and municipal co-financing, as well as the responsibility for ready-to-print patients. The development of welfare services continues in 2012. The real growth in total revenue will be between 5 billion. and 6 billion. DKr, of which an estimated 3.75 bn. and 4.25 billion kr will be free income. The calculations show that the sector can get additional expenditure on demography prescribed to about 50 %. 2.5 B.C.E. kr. Of this, approx. 2.1 B.C.E. kr is financed in the context of the growth of free income. The counties get between 0.5 billion. and 0.75 billion kr in growth in free income, of which 400 million. kr justified on the need for operation and maintenance of the county road network. Municipalities and county councils can safely face the autumn's choices in order to ensure that the high level of investment in the municipal sector is continued and that municipalities are given greater responsibility in the overall health policy. For the Workers' Party, the autumn's choices concern these three main issues: work, health and the elderly. We deliver in all of these areas in the municipal proposition. Work has always been the key of the Workers' Party to developing and building the country. It's still like that, and it'll be like that in the future. We have a high level of employment, not least in the municipal sector, where one in five people in the country work. Since 2005, nearly 47 000 new annual works have been created in the municipal sector, cf. figures from the Statistical Central Bureau for the fourth quarter from 2005 to 2010. So it's in the period under the red-green government. It shows an increase in employment of 13.6 p.m. It's not just dry numbers. There are people who provide an important job and who each contribute to the functioning of our society: they're kindergarten workers, teachers, help nurses and nurses, skilled employees who work with our kids, and give the elderly a decent care for the elderly. The right claims that there has been a strong growth in bureaucracy and administration in the municipalities. Although it is thoroughly refuted by, among other things. KS, I would like to say this: the increase in administration in the municipalities has been, as a percentage, much lower than the increase in total annual work in the municipalities and much lower than for the services that have been the government's bet area: kindergarten, care and school. So there was a higher proportion of administration when the Right sat with the Mayor than it is now. In 2005, the share was 14.5 pst., while in 2010 the share of administration was 13.3 pst. This would prove that the growth has not been too high, but it is always important to keep an eye on what the funds are doing. But good public services also require administration. Some people have to issue decisions on nursery facilities, make sure that employees are paid, that the people receive the information they are asking for and are entitled to. Administration is a prerequisite for a well-functioning society, where citizens receive their offers and rights. That's why I think it's pretty straightforward that the Right hangs out a group of employees who do an important job in their municipalities. Work provides municipal services to the inhabitants of the municipality and good municipal welfare. Secure and secure jobs provide stability, predictability, safe tax access and help stabilise the country’s housing pattern. Nevertheless, we see the need and desire for mobility in the workplace. One of the major challenges facing the local community sector in the future is to recruit professionals through the emergence of attractive employers with a good professional environment, exciting challenges and a focus on skills. Let me stress that there are not only created jobs in the public sector with this government. Since 2005, 250,000 new jobs have been created, two-thirds of which are in the private sector — or more than 160 000. Health is one of the taboos of the Workers' Party. We are now starting to implement the cooperation reform in the municipalities from 2012. Many municipalities are already running. Now everyone's going. Better interaction between different levels of health care, more prevention and early intervention will improve public health. It's a long-term work where it takes time to measure results, but the human benefit will be enormous if we can limit and reduce the extent of diseases that can be prevented, for example lifestyle diseases such as diabetes 2, COPD, overweight, high blood pressure, and cardiovascular diseases. The idea is to treat the patient at the lowest possible level. What has to be done in hospitals is to be done there, while what can be done in the municipality of origin is to be done there. Municipal co-financing obligations for municipalities are introduced and 5 billion are transferred. kr to the local government sector of health enterprises. Municipalities are given responsibility for ready-to-print patients from day one. This means that the municipalities have to take the patients home to the municipality, or they can pay the health companies, the hospitals, for further hospitalisation until the municipalities themselves are able to offer places for this purpose. A new cost key is provided for municipal co-financing and ready-to-print patients in this proposition to distribute funds between municipalities. We need to monitor closely the development of funding. This is new work and adjustments shall be made quickly if an intentional effect is observed. Older people are the Workers' Party third mainly in front of the municipal elections in 2011. Older people are a resource, and fortunately, more and more older people are in good health and live longer. It is an indicator that the welfare society of Norway works well in many areas. Recently official figures showed that more and more older people are in work. However, some people need more help through a sick home or other lucky day care facility. The messages from Kommune-Norge were that there were not enough spaces available. These signals were taken seriously, and the rates increased significantly for the construction of health care centres and luckily care services. We get positive feedback from the municipalities on this increase, but the municipalities also express concern that they will be able to operate new sites in the future. These are signals that the Workers' Party takes very seriously, and we're going to have close dialogue with both the municipal sector and the KS to follow developments. Also in health, care and care, the number of annual works has increased significantly. From 2005 to 2010, the sector has increased from 124 976 yearly to 145 718, representing an increase of 16.5 pst. The government will present a proposal for a new law on municipal water and wastewater treatment plants. The aim is to ensure public ownership of water and sewerage infrastructure. Water and sewerage are essential basic services which should be under Community control. The working party considers these plans to be a step in the right direction. We record that the Progress Party is against it. They say in a note to the municipal bill that they consider it so that if the municipalities themselves are to provide these services, it may ‘unintentional economic consequences, such as more expensive services and more dexterity of supervision’. The Party of Progress, the Party for Designation, Detailed Management of Municipalities, State Oversight and the minimisation of the use of local authority discretion in each municipality, considers that public ownership and control of water and sewerage facilities can lead to more discretionary supervision. The proposal of the Progress Party is also full of contradictions in the position of this municipal proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1233	The President would only draw attention to the fact that the use of words such as ‘freckle’ and ‘freak’ on co-representatives is not normally seen as parliamentary language. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1238	The representative of Ingarill Olsen indicates that the government and the government have proposed a real growth of between 5 and 6 billion. NOK in the municipal budget next year. It gives the impression that the real, real and actual growth in the municipalities of next year's government budget is going to be at this size. What's a little problem here is that one of these growths doesn't mean that the municipalities get an increase in interest costs. Nor has one taken into account the fact that there will be more inhabitants in the country, in the municipality of Norway. There are also many other cost-driven things that are not taken into account when boasting how much more money the municipalities will get next year. My question is: does the representative ingulill Olsen think that the real, real and actual growth of the municipalities next year will be between 5 and 6 billion? Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1250	Yes, the increase in municipalities is at that level. That means that the demography is inside of this, as I mentioned in my post. In the case of increased interest rates, it is a matter for municipalities which they have to include in their assessment when taking up debt. The fact that the interest rate is fluctuating, all the responsible municipalities know, and they have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1257	I noticed that the case rapporteur for the municipal bill used his entire article to attack the Right and the Advance Party and to start the election campaign for the Workers' Party. Now we also heard the three main areas of action in the municipal election campaign, namely work, health and the elderly. It is worth noting for parents who are concerned about having a good school for their children, that the Workers' Party has still not intended to give priority to school policy as they go into the municipal election campaign. But work is important. Then it is interesting to note that the Workers' Party still swears to the belief that if you get all the money into the treasury and then distribute the tax revenue back to the individual municipality, you will create a dynamic working life. Why does the Workers' Party not allow municipalities to retain a share of the company tax, which makes it pay to invest in industrial development in Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1264	Tax is an income to both the State and the municipality, but at the same time it is also an opportunity for municipalities to redistribute funds. We took some action last year to change the treasure. This has led to a better economy in the municipalities, and this has led to a greater number of municipalities doing better. It means, of course, a reduction for those municipalities that are above the national average, but at the same time we see that there will be more cohesion, that will provide better well-being, and we believe that it is a proper redistribution approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1269	I also noticed that the Workers' Party's field of action was work, health and the elderly. I would like to point to the so-called older billion that the government granted in the newly-eldered budget in 2010. It has not been continued in the current year and there are no signs in the municipal bill that it will be more in 2012. The Christian People's Party and the Left made a settlement with the government parties about a bet on the elderly, a rightful attachment to the guarantee of dignity. At the same time, however, it was clearly stated that this would cost money, and that the municipalities would have transferred money, so that the guarantee of dignity could be put into effect. But when this money doesn't come, how much is that deal worth? And how much is the guarantee of dignity worth when the government parties actually fail to comply with the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1278	We have a principle of framework financing. The municipalities are the best ones to assess how to allocate the funds they are channelled over the State budget. We've just got new numbers that show that from last year to this year we've actually managed to add a lot more. This means that only in the last year have we received a much better care for the elderly in this country. The framework principle is established, and that means that we actually have good care for the elderly. But of course we have to follow the guarantee of dignity, and every municipality is conscious of the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1284	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1287	The progress party has a different municipal policy starting point than the government and the red-green parties. The core of our municipal policy is the seat of man in the center. The municipality is for the inhabitants and not the other way around. The public has a superior responsibility to control the quality of services and to finance the basic welfare services provided, but does not have to deal with tasks that can be handled equally well or better by private individuals. For this reason, we would like to see a need-driven government funding for the basic welfare services. This means that when a need arises, it automatically triggers funding. If someone needs a health resort, it will trigger government funding. Whether a cage in a poor or rich municipality will not be decisive for what services you get, for the services will be funded by the state. Tasks undertaken by municipalities in addition to basic welfare services are mainly financed by local taxation. But until we get an impact on our primary policy, of course, we're starting from today's framework licensing system and the challenges it presents. The Progress Party is clear that the frameworks signaled by the Government through the 2012 Communication are far from adequate in relation to the challenges facing the municipalities. The government and the number person from the Workers' Party boasts that the arrangement of the municipal proposition will give a real growth of between 5 and 6 billion. kr next year. This can give the impression that the real, real and actual growth of the municipalities next year is at that size. This is with respect to reporting wrong. Why is that wrong? Well, because one in that sum, when you calculate this real growth, only takes into account wage and price growth. Increased costs incurred by municipalities next year due to population growth, ageing population, increased interest costs – if interest rates are projected – increase pension costs and increase costs due to new, imposed tasks, are not considered. That's why this is misleading, and we think that what is proposed by the government is not enough to ensure that the municipalities have an adequate economy. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes to increase the municipal framework next year by 5 billion. kr more than the government and government party goes in for. We believe that such an increase is necessary to ensure the basic welfare services of the inhabitants of the municipalities, and therefore we also propose the following distributions: One and a half billion. kr more in operational funds for municipal care for the elderly 1 billion. kr more ear-marked base ball 300 mill. kr more for municipal care and psychiatry 200 million. kr more for municipal children's protection 2 billion. kr more for upgrading the county road network than the government has proposed So now it's not just the Progress Party that means that the municipalities need more money. The local sector interest and employer's organisation, KS, also believes that municipalities need to increase the framework in relation to what the government has proposed. Many go wrong in Kommune-Noreg. The local authorities are struggling with the poor economy. That indicates a lot of feedback. The debt burden of the municipalities has doubled over the six years that the Senterpartiet has had the municipal minister. New tasks have been imposed on municipalities, for example: The interaction reform, which will present significant challenges for local authorities in the future. The party of progress fears that a already strenuous economy in many municipalities will deteriorate next year. It also means that the huge number of municipalities experienced in relation to the rehabilitation of municipal building stock and infrastructure resulting from a strenuous municipal economy will not be reduced, but will increase further. This is also something the Progress Party would like to address when considering the 2012 State budget. In the case of care for the elderly, there are also major weaknesses. Of course, this needs more action, not just talk. We thought it was a great paradox that Norway, which is one of the richest countries in the world, still has a steady news coverage in the media about major problems and misery in the care system. The Progress Party believes that this situation is totally unacceptable, but unfortunately it is a natural consequence of a socialist system that rationalizes the provision of elderly care based on the framework, with economic frameworks that are too small and that can be freely used for other purposes for the care of caring for the elderly. When resources are not automatically provided in response to a growing need and an ageing population, queues, waiting lists and higher thresholds for help must be achieved. However, the Progress Party is pleased that the support arrangements for the construction of nursing homes and sick homes have been strengthened earlier this year, but clear feedback from the municipalities shows that what they need now is the means to operate care for the elderly – and so it has been followed up by the Progress Party in this setting. Even if local authorities need more money, it is crucial that the funds available to local authorities are used in an optimal way, so that the maximum amount of well-being is obtained from each krona. It is therefore important to facilitate competition, both internal competition and external competition, in order to ensure a good development. I would also like to add that the postponement of competition is not the same as privatisation, as some seem to believe. As long as the funding is still public, and that means the Progress Party, this is not privatisation, but a competitive postponement. Today, we also have a budgeting system in the municipalities, an accounting system that is obsolete and that covers the real economic situation in the municipalities. Depreciation is not known, but depreciation is going on as an operating cost. If we had made a change in line with the way private companies run their accounting systems, it would have resulted in red numbers in perhaps most of the country's municipalities. But that's the reality, and then we think it's important to see what it's like in the municipality of Norway. The municipal structure is also a theme that I thought I would come within. So today we have 430 municipalities in Norway. Most – very many, at least – think that it is a bit out of the ordinary, and that it would be appropriate to have a reduction. The Progress Party also believes that we should have a reduction, but this should happen in a voluntary way. Of course, it is important to facilitate this and use the economic tools that you have. It is now positive that this proposition proposes to increase the transitional arrangements, from 10 + 5 years to 15 + 5 years. There is a step in the right direction and something that the Progress Party has long wanted. Of course, the loss, in terms of reduced income by combining municipalities, will be reduced. But it's still going to be a loss, especially for the smaller municipalities. It's what the Progress Party wants to do, so there's no one to lose on merging. For example, from a question asked to the Council of State, when two municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants in Nord-Troms or Finnmark merge, this would result in a loss of revenue for these municipalities of 31.6 million. NOK 2010-krona after 20 years. This means that the municipalities have to streamline correspondingly to get to zero. Therefore, today’s funding solution prevents a sheep from benefiting voluntary municipal convergence processes. If we had done that, we would also have been able to liquidate the county council as a private political and administrative level and liberated additional billions that one could have benefited better in the municipalities. Finally, I will once again present the proposals behind the Progress Party either alone or together with our friends in the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1343	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1348	The representative, Mr Hagesetter, was critical of the government's municipal structure and traces of cut and dramatically worsening conditions in Norwegian municipalities. That's exactly what Hageseter said earlier. In the debate on the 2010 state budget, Hagesetter said inter alia: that the municipalities would not experience an improved economy and he supported his argument by showing a survey where six out of ten advisers thought that the financial situation of the municipalities would deteriorate. Yesterday, we received the fasit from the Statistical Centre: 10,000 more people employed in the municipal sector in 2010 – 3,000 more year-olds in care and care. How does Hagesetter think that municipalities have been able to employ 10,000 more people if the economy is deteriorating?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1359	So now, if you're around Municipality-Noreg and you're talking to local politicians, both from the Progress Party and from the Labour Party, they're not experiencing any improved economy in the municipal sector. There have been several additions, but there are, among other things. by the fact that there have also been several inhabitants in Kommune-Noreg. There have also been several demands and requirements that have been dropped on the municipalities, which means that you have to add more. In addition, there are other things: all forecasts indicate that one will get an interest rate rise in time. The current state is almost double since the red-green government took over power. One also has an ageing population, which means that it costs more to drive the municipalities. And all the evidence suggests that one also gets an increase in pension costs over the years to come. This is why the local economy has not improved – and will not improve until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1366	Towards the red-green government's distribution policy, which has ensured a balance between the differences in Norway and provided more well-being, more school and more elderly care around the country as a result of a targeted effort on public welfare rather than tax havens, the Party's distribution policy stands. The progress game plays with Monopoly money and distributes in all directions. They distribute to taxes on wealth, which are proposed every year, and now distribute 5 billion. kr to the municipalities. There's toy money that we're never going to see, because we see that the cooperation parties of the Progress Party don't have the same money. Then there will be a hard priority for Gjermund Hageseter and the Progress Party: If you have the choice to remove the entire wealth tax, as the Progress Party wants, and to increase the well-being of people living in the municipalities, what would you choose to do first?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1371	Then I'll say yes, thank you both. So we have a surplus on the state budget for the current year. The prognosis accounts for 313 billion. kr in excess. This means that we can afford tax relief, which makes everyday life easier for most people – it will pay off to work, and it will also secure Norwegian businesses and thus jobs. We can also afford to ensure the maintenance of the county roads, as we suggest, and we have more money for the municipalities, so that the inhabitants get the services they need. We can also afford to do something with the 280 000 who are in a hospital queue today waiting for treatment. It's unworthy to have so many in health queues. These cows have to go down. That's a lot of fate, so we have to clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1381	The right has proposed a financial framework for the local government sector both in 2009, 2010 and 2011 which had provided the municipalities with an economic space in line with the arrangements of the government. However, our alternative implies that a greater proportion of revenue would have been generated by the fact that municipalities had retained more of their own tax revenue. In contrast to the government’s approach, an overall approach from the Right would have meant a more even growth for the sector, continued focus on improving efficiency and renewing and expecting the sector in line with the economic framework. The community proposal for 2012 contains few surprises. The red-green government continues a policy where municipalities are increasingly limited in political space, where the state continues its central direction, and where the value of industrial development in its own municipality is not rewarded. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party point out that a traditional government of the municipalities has been able to divide into two main dimensions: governance of the objectives or governance of the instruments. Management of the instruments in relation to municipalities has in the past been a lot of use, e.g.: by earmarking funds. Under today's government, however, we see that governance is double. However, the proportion of earmarked funds is reduced, but governance through other leaders, such as regulations, legislation and laws, has increased in parallel with government governance of objectives on behalf of municipalities, through both right-wing legislation, maximum pricing of different services and objectives such as: full child-care coverage. This turn restricts the scope for action of the local decision-makers, and we believe that the government of Stoltenberg has created a major crisis of expectation in Kommune-Norway. The media and the political debate give the impression that Kommune-Norge has been given increased resources to improve the provision of services. In our opinion, this is wrong. The municipal sector has faced major challenges in terms of cost growth. The government has not shown the ability to address the new challenges facing the local government sector. In recent years, the expenditure of municipalities has increased more than that of the government. The policy of today's government is that municipalities receive grants in the first year of action, but that the government then removes the grant. This practice implies that municipalities are entrusted with tasks that are not fully financed. This is confirmed, inter alia: in PwCs and KS' R & D project: ‘Who takes the bill? Is state reforms fully financed?’ pediatric reform and its funding are being evaluated. During today's government, municipalities and county councils have been given more and more statutory tasks without the funding being included. This means that municipalities have to cut into their other responsibilities. The need for freedom for Kommune-Norge must also mean freedom from underfunded reforms. In many ways, the government threatens the freedom of municipalities through the lack of funding and promises that make local politicians in challenging situations, because they are unable to deliver what is expected of them. As a result, the freedom to prioritise in line with local policy needs has been weakened. However, the most important freedom for municipalities is the freedom to provide good enough services and freedom for local adaptation. What threatens this freedom is that there are no resources to develop and maintain skills-based, stable and locally adapted services in the areas considered to be the most central ones: school, health and care. Simplification from today's system to a two-tier model with only state and municipality will contribute to efficiency. The right considers that, in addition to the Quality Community Programme, the government's work on renewal in the municipal sector has stopped altogether. Municipalities are now working hard to convert and streamline their expenditure in line with the level of income. If the municipalities do not have the opportunity to convert and streamline the money, the consequences will be reductions in the provision of services and a reduction in quality, in parallel with increased expectations as a result of the government's rhetoric. The government announces in the municipal bill that it will make proposals for the legislative adoption of the joint municipal model. The KS and the municipalities themselves have expressed themselves clearly against such a scheme, and the Right is critical of the fact that the government nevertheless wants to promote a proposition on co-municipalities and increased bureaucracy. We will of course come back to this when the matter is promoted for Stortinget. We also refer to a statement by the National Government of the KS last year, May 28th, where they say that: «The Government proposes that the share of tax revenue in the income of the local government sector be reduced from 45 p.m. up to 40 pst.’ That's 4 pst right there. in the configuration, but there is a bug that needs to be corrected. Further: «Taxless municipalities will benefit from it, while municipalities where citizens contribute more tax losses. The national government of the KS believes that local anchoring of income is important for local self-government.» We share this view and believe that municipalities must retain at least half of their own tax revenue. It is important that municipalities are stimulated to carry out active business and development so that they can contribute to increased value creation and growth in tax revenue. By constantly reducing the importance of tax revenue to municipalities, the government counteracts such developments. It is very important that municipalities retain parts of the corporate tax locally. It provides an important basis for municipalities to pursue a positive and forward-looking industrial policy. With the arrangement of the government, where one reduces the tax share of the municipalities to 40 p.m., nor does the municipalities keep part of the corporate tax, the incentives for the development of a high-growth industrial policy in the municipalities have been effectively removed. This is very unfortunate and sends out signals that the efforts of municipalities in this area are of little importance. It's a contradiction to what the Right believes. Therefore, happily both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have gathered on the following proposals: «The government asks the government to ensure that 4.25 pst. the company tax is returned to the municipalities.» It is gratifying that an overall opposition now determines that municipalities should have something left to facilitate industrial development and jobs. This naturally does not fit into the government's blind belief in redistribution: draw everything into the state register, and share generously again with the municipalities. That's the government's motto. We also heard that in Mr Olsen's speech. She talked about the municipalities having the pleasure of managing what the government was distributing, instead of thinking that the tax revenues generated locally, and the income generated locally, are actually the municipal incomes – revenues that are then sent to and drawn into the state treasury, so as to be distributed again. Municipalities will have an increase in their free income of between 3.75 and 4.25 billion. kroner in 2012. The cost of demographic development is about 2.1 billion. crowns and must be covered by the growth of free income. KS expects a higher expenditure growth than is required by the government. Then move on to some disciplines for which the municipalities are responsible. Kindergartens are one of them. The right is concerned with ensuring a good quality and diverse childcare provision for all children. I would like to refer to the Right previous comments on the partial cost key for kindergartens, where we were critical of, among other things. the educational criterion as the distribution criterion. State Secretary Sandbakken of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs reports to the Municipal Report on 27 May 2011 that the educational criterion shows signs of weakening as it is less important for the demand for children's gardening as it is used by many people. The government's own calculations show that about 1100 more full-time seats were created in kindergartens than estimated in 2010. This suggests that the educational criterion as an objective and fair distribution criterion is further weakened. The right is concerned that this leads to a biased distribution of grants between municipalities, which ultimately affects the children, the parents and the employees of the nursery. We are also concerned that the pedagogical staff in kindergartens are weakened and that many private kindergartens are experiencing uncertainties as to the financial framework to which they should relate, after the entry into force of a new regulation on equivalent treatment for the award of government grants on 1 January 2011. Municipal child protection is also a major challenge. It has been duly debated many times in this room, and I am not going further into it, but refers to the long and many comments the opposition has on child protection in the setting. We are on the threshold of a campaign, where several thousand candidates for the first time have made themselves available, are motivated and want to participate in shaping their community. Me and the Right want to give these candidates greater trust than the government wants. We want to give the municipal politicians the right to be lords in their own house, we want to reduce the government's governance, we want to give the municipalities tools that make business development pay off, and we want legal decisions taken in municipal bodies, elected bodies, not to be overestimated by the state's discretion of bureaucrats without elected authorities. We will take local democracy seriously. We want the top motivated initial candidates to be as enthusiastic at the end of the next parliamentary term as they are right before the election. Norwegian municipalities must be given greater freedom. We need a freedom reform for the Municipality of Norway!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1440	The representative of Greece probably agrees that there is a difference between being at a party and having to cut municipal budgets. In several previous intersections, and also in the comment on the municipal proposition of the year, the Right has drawn a dark picture of the situation in Kommune-Norway. In the debate on the 2010 State Budget, Greece considered that the government's approach «will require conversion and cut off from local authorities». Yesterday, the SSB produced figures showing a growth of 10,000 persons employed in Norwegian municipalities. Can the Stortinget now get a confession from Greece that he was wrong when he characterised the 2010 budget as a cut budget, and can Helleland explain how his description of the conversion and cut is compatible with the statements by Højres Vice-President Jan Tore Sanner that the red-greens have created a cost party in the municipalities? What does the Right actually mean: are Norwegian municipalities at a party, or are they at a demagogue? Or is the truth perhaps somewhere in the middle – that nothingness characterizes Norwegian municipalities, but that it is quite good? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1456	It's all over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1459	The representative Haugli had a lot on his heart in his line, and I see that it's hard to fit everything. But what is the starting point of the representative Haugli is that the right must have said that it is so bad in the municipality of Norway. No, it's not bad in Kommune-Norway. The right has given exactly the same framework for the municipal sector as the government – with which I started my post – in 2009, 2010, 2011, and we are likely to be in the same position in 2012. It's not Kommune-Norge that's the problem, it's the government. It's the government, who doesn't want to trust the municipalities at all, because it's becoming more and more centralized. It becomes more centralized, it becomes over-control and detailed regulation. The Neighbors' Council has announced its own notification of this, which Stortinget will probably get, perhaps just before the election. That'll be interesting, because it's a recognition that this government has failed. They can't take the municipalities seriously by giving them the freedom they actually deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1468	It was, in my opinion, a completely incomprehensible conclusion from Trond Helleland to the previous line, all the time it is we and our government that have made sure that one has never had a greater share of free money around the municipalities. Municipalities themselves choose how they want to spend this money within everything they think is common rules and common sense policies, which emerge here at Stortinget. Otherwise, I noticed that this day Bent Höie from the Right said that the municipality of Oslo's way of running tendering policy was not at all correct in relation to child protection, and how it is being run. I'm assuming that the Right is going to be out and really want to regulate the municipalities in that area. I agree with Bent Höie, but the best way to do something about it is to replace the regime in Oslo. But I was going to ask about taxes. It is the richest municipalities, Asker and Bærum, who will serve on the policy of Trond Helleland. There is no evidence that increasing the tax rate leads to more industrial development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1477	I don't know if it was a question, or if it was a statement from Holmås’ side, what he concluded with. He claimed that I had an incomprehensible end to my previous reply. I was also unable to get the connection in the representative Holmås spoke about. But what he said was that it was – I kept saying – joy and fun in Kommune-Norway, because they had so much free money. But I showed in my post that demography takes a lot of the free money, and why should the government provide a big message about the state overgovernment of Norwegian municipalities, if there is no problem? It's obviously a problem, when Councillor Navarsete makes this one of his main issues. I fully agree with the Council of State that the Municipality of Norway has been overrun. The County Councillor in Sogn and Fjordane have launched their own Facebook page, asking for input into state detail management and over-management of Norwegian municipalities. Holmås should read the message that comes, and probably be wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1486	The representative of Greece gives the impression that economic development has been worse during this government than it was until 2005. One who entered local policy in 2005, and who fought the first case, which concerned the setting up of an axe committee for severe cuts in all service areas in the municipality due to poor municipal economy, is not fully aware of this. There are still major challenges to being a local politician, but now the discussion is more about where we are going to increase the provision of services, and what kind of new jobs we are going to announce, rather than where we can cut down, and who we have to cancel. 10 000 new jobs in 2010 indicate that the right road is going in Kommune-Norway. ROBEK figures from 2005 show that there were barely 120 municipalities on the ROBEK list in 2005. [[President clubs]] In 2009 there were 42 municipalities. [[The President Clubs Again]] Does that not indicate that we have had a better urban economic development today? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1495	The President requests that representatives stay within the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1498	Well, we've had a better economy in the last few years in the municipalities, but in 2005, with which the representative Greni started, it was the best year for municipalities when it came to economics. Then there was a huge growth in the local economy after some meager years. This reflects the overall economic development of society. It cannot be the case that the municipalities of Norway have a violent freedom of action in the years in which the state and the business community have their backs. There has been an explosion in the increase in the state pension fund abroad, which of course also belongs to one of the most important welfare producers in the country, namely Norwegian municipalities. So I am glad that the oil price has gone well, that we have managed to set aside and keep the rule of action while at the same time giving room for increased development in Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1507	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1510	When we discuss the local economy in Norway and the outlook for the Norwegian welfare state, where municipalities play a very central role, it is a little surprising that we do not see this in an international perspective – look at the world around us, look at Europe, at the rest of Europe and the countries most critically exposed, such as Greece. There it is that you have shaving of the public budgets, drastic cuts. The aftermath of the financial crisis is dramatic, with high unemployment — a devastating unemployment rate for youth, which prevents young people from entering and getting their first job, and which is likely to be constantly ensuring that they never get in. These are many countries that have tried recipes, from the right to the right. The more right-wing countries have been, the less good it has been for some of them during the years of building up and cutting taxes, and instead of investing in private business in a way that has not been sustainable. In contrast, Norway, a peaceful ‘island’, is all the north of Europe. We have the lowest unemployment throughout Europe. We have had increasing employment for a long time. Also this year we expect new jobs with more people doing a job. We have had immigration from other countries in Europe to contribute to that value creation and well-being. Many of them stay here when things go bad in other countries. We have a good economy in Norway because we have a red-green government that hasn't scoured away the money to tax bills, but instead invested in the future, in value creation and in welfare. We can't forget that when we have this big discussion. In such a situation, KS expresses their understanding of the growth of the local economy that comes in Norway. In the years following the financial crisis, we are stepping in to make sure that we save in good times, so that we have money on the book for the bad times, when they come – and we know they're coming. Therefore, it is good to see that as we increase the municipal budgets, it contributes to more well-being for people across the country. Yesterday, figures from the Statistical Central Bureau showed that, during the red-green period of government, we have received over 50,000 new annual works around the municipalities, who have gone to school, who have gone to school, to kindergarten, with the giant children's garden revolution we have been through, to the welfare of both young people and the elderly who need it – to care for everyone. That's our goal: to spend the big money on care. There is no doubt that the welfare state and community investment are important in several different ways. One is that it helps balance the differences. The welfare state balances differences. Instead of investing in more tax havens, most of all for those who have the most – such as Gjermund Hagesetter was in on when he goes for a tough defense to remove the wealth tax, which will give the most to those who have the most – there is a commitment to the welfare of a cohesion policy. That is why we also see differences sinking in Norway, and have done so under the red-green government. The fact that the differences are decreasing is, in my opinion, the most beautiful thing with Norway. Society with small differences is a society where people trust each other. It's not that hard to understand, because when the differences are small, we feel in the same boat. Then we stand up for each other, and when we set up for each other, we get to know each other and we get to trust each other, and then we join the community because it benefits us all. Is there anyone in this room who thinks that hard work is voluntary? We have just a discussion about integration, where the word "dugnad" is central. Just that word you don't have in all languages, but everyone understands how to help each other, because it's rooted in most cultures. But in my homestead team, where I grew up, it was like one of my neighbors convinced me that there was a separate room in hell for those who weren't on duty. Dugnad is mandatory. For people have confidence in each other when they know each other and know each other, and people know who the rapporteur in their municipality is. That is why local democracy is very important for this trust. In Vinje municipality greets everyone at Arne Vinje. It is nice to be the rapporteur in Vinje and the name Vinje. It would have been like I was Heikki Oslo when I represented Oslo. It would have been fun. It is in Kommune-Norway that the Norwegian community is built and around the communities that the duke takes place. That's what the municipal bill and the municipal election are all about. We run for the harvest when it comes to choices, and we go to elections just at this: creating municipalities that are good for people and good for the environment. With us red-green in the driver's seat, with an SV hand on the steering wheel, we shall prevent the right-hand side from guiding us towards a permanent downfall to the Adecco league, and instead keep us in the elite series, just as Firen does. That's why we work for a good local democracy. At the heart of running a good local democracy is having a good employer policy. I believe that we, as municipal representatives at Stortinget and the best dialogue partners in the municipalities, must work for the municipalities, where our local elected representatives should be obliged to work for more full time, more permanent jobs, against privatisation and against social dumping, because that job remains in many municipalities. That's how we create municipalities with high-quality well-being. Since I first arrived at Stortinget, Oslo has passed both 500,000 and 600,000 inhabitants. Misunderstand me correctly: every new resident in Oslo is warmly welcome. But I would prefer that more of those who want to do so should live in the municipality they come from, or in the municipality they want to live in in the rest of the country. Investing in a good local economy is the best way to pursue district policy. It is clear that these new jobs – over 50 000 new annual works that have come around the municipality of Norway over the last few years the red-greens have fallen – have come across the whole country. They don't just come to Oslo or Bergen, so people move and stay in the big cities. They're coming all over the country. We know that there are a lot of ladies working in public. Making sure that there are jobs for both women and men around the country is incredibly important. Therefore, good municipal economy is essential for settlement throughout the country. It's good business development. I was out in the eyeyard outside of Sotra last week. There my favorite company – Sway they are called – has been allowed to set up the world’s largest windmill, which is half a time higher than Oslo Plaza. Whoever's next door is local SVs, Aud Karin Oen. She is the closest neighbor and has voted in favour of the local government, but she has said to me that if not that windmill is down after the test period of five years, she will come personally and cold-throat me. I don't see that as a death threat, but it shows the combination – how local commitment to supporting business development also contributes to settlement and development across the country. There's so much going on all over the country. In the neighbouring municipality of Oslo over the water, Nesodden, SV rapporteur Christian Hintze Holm has gone to Bellona built, which to date is one of the most energy efficient houses in the country, a high time with energy saving, by focusing on local skills building in business, by making tough demands on how to go ahead in building away from passive houses, and even further on energy efficiency improvement. This is when the spirit of hard work and local commitment are involved in creating the symbol projects that show that it is possible to pursue a policy that contributes both to better environment and industrial development. Although there are many SVs that should be mentioned in this context, I can't stop mentioning the municipality of Bergen. We in the Municipal Committee were in Bergen and looked at the Boss Suction. Bossug is a great thing. It's a garbage vacuum. It is simply about building up an infrastructure to gather bosses. Instead of having all the cars running around, and the forest banks standing around all over the city and agreeing to pamper and create rat plague, the municipality of Bergen has gone ahead in establishing a forest suction system in a real way. Paradoxically, the Right Party, Christian People's Party and Advance Party councils have their own national policies in the middle of their faces, because they themselves participated in opening up to impose the competitive outsourcing of food waste. Now they see that the collection of food waste and the fact that many traders do not want to be part of it, help to make forestry more expensive for everyone. I am pleased that the government will look at this matter in order to promote investment in infrastructure for the future. I can't stop mentioning the enormous effort that municipalities are making to create good municipalities of growth for people. Kindergarten evolution and good quality are things that help people to thrive in municipalities all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1552	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1555	The representative Holmås pulled out Greece today. He showed that Norway has dealt better with the financial crisis than Greece has. Now I think Norway has a little bit more oil than Greece. We don't only have oil revenues that are prescribed to give us a surplus this year of 313 billion. kr, but we also have an oil fund of 3 100 billion. kr. I think that would have been quite unfortunate and would have been able to mess it up quite a lot if Norway in such an economic situation would not get out well. Heikki Holmås also indicated that Norway has not squandered the money for tax havens. My question then is: Does Holmås think that if taxpayers get to keep more of their income, these money is pushed away without goal and meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1563	Of course I don't mean that. I believe that they can be, but of course it is not that all taxes are scraped away. We see very clearly how helping to work together — in order to produce good school, good welfare for people instead of making these well-beings completely dependent on the incomes of people, whether they have good or bad advice — is one of the things that is crucial. To collect taxes together and to split on these goods is a much better solution than to scrubbing away the money. But there's no doubt that if you give 7 billion. kr, 12 br. kr or even more in taxes on wealth, most of the money will go to the people who have over 3 million. kr in income. It is to scour money from the community, which could instead have been invested in research and development for the benefit of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1568	In all the self-responsiveness, Heikki Holmås was also in the nursery and kindergarten reform and that we now have full childcare coverage. That's good. It also supports the Christian People's Party. But then the Christian People's Party has also called for an escalation plan in terms of full child protection coverage by 2017. The Lightbaking Council has gradually begun to share the Christian People's Party's concern for the weakest of the weakest, children who need extra help. But I can't see anything in the municipal bill that says that there is an increase in child protection. When will the red-green government and government parties ensure that children not only have a kindergarten but also have a safe and healthy home?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1575	Geir Jørgen Bekkewold presents a vision that I share, namely that all the kids who need public help to cope with their lives, either with their parents at first or possibly get an offer outside the home, in foster or other, are incredibly important to provide. As Bekkevold quite correctly says, there is not a clear escalation plan here in the municipal proposition in the years to come. I know that Bekkevold has come to realize that Audun Lysbakken as Minister for Child Protection – also Minister for Child Protection – has a clear ambition to step up child protection in the years to come, and the year we are behind us now, with a tremendous boost, has been an important and clear signal in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1584	The representative Holmås was through most of Europe and various Norwegian municipalities in his post, without the substance becoming particularly heavy. But he challenged me instead on this with the economy of Norwegian municipalities. After reading the figures, one has to note that under this government the real growth has been 2.86 pst. of income in the last four years, while under Bondevik II, real growth was 4.2 pst. There's a number that Holmås can comment on. Another figure is that the level of debt in Norwegian municipalities has increased from 20 pst. in 2007 to 40 pst. today. Is this a development Holmås seems lucky — especially in view of the fact that the government and the Bank of Norway and others indicate that the level of interest rates should rise quite sharply in the future. Is Holmås secure on behalf of Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1593	I find it incomprehensible if it is the case that the Right Representative here believes it is wrong to invest in the upgrade of kindergartens, the construction of new kindergartens, the construction of new nursing homes and the involvement of elderly care in this time with an ageing wave, which just makes the debt of many municipalities increase. If that's how to understand that the Right really thinks that you shouldn't build these hospitals and shouldn't build these kindergartens, then it would be interesting to know before we go into the election campaign. Clearly, investing for the future requires that you have the economy to do so, and I feel that the municipalities are confident that we, the red-green government, are the strongest guarantor they have for continued growth in the years to come. If you look at the total municipal economy, I believe that at the top of Erna Solberg, we had barely 150 municipalities on the ROBEK list. So it's about a third today of what it was then. It's probably the best goal of whether you have a disputed community economy that you can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1600	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1603	The municipal sector is a sector that affects all residents of Norway. We all live our lives in a municipality, and we all receive some form of municipal service. A strong public sector and common welfare arrangements are a necessary prerequisite for ensuring all equivalent services. In order to adapt policy priorities to the needs of the population, it is necessary to decentralise most services to the municipalities. The municipal sector has seen significant growth during this government — from 2005 to 2010 for a total of 48.2 billion. kr., i.e. on 17 p.m. Despite significant improvements, Kommune-Norway also has major challenges in the future. The number of older people will increase in the coming years, thus increasing the demand for services in the care sector. Through the Interaction Reform, municipalities will be given new and exciting tasks and many new skills jobs. The interaction reform shall be implemented over time from January 2012. The municipalities are transferred 5 billion. kr from the State, from health establishments, to finance the new tasks. The reform shall ensure an effective patient trajectory and good services at the lowest possible effective level. The main objective of the reform is to provide users with access to healthcare as close as possible to home. The opposition claims that the municipalities are unable to solve these problems, and one can sometimes get the impression that patients will be thrown out of the hospital from 1 January and put on the street if the municipality of origin is not ready for an offer. Of course it's not like that. Many municipalities have already expanded their offer and can accept ready-to-print patients, e.g. offer lucky day places, from 1 January 2012. Other municipalities have chosen to solve these tasks in cooperation with neighbouring municipalities and have built or are in the process of building up an intermunicipal service offer in this field. Others have not reached the same stage in the process and they will choose to purchase the services of health businesses for a transitional period. All of these solutions are equally correct. It is much more important that municipalities take time to plan, get the necessary skills in place and provide patients with an offer that is at least as good as the healthcare provider can offer before taking over the tasks. It is much more important than the fact that the offer is in place for a specific date. The government aims to enable all municipalities to offer a daily activity offer to demente by 2015. In order to ensure a stepping up of the daily activity offer, it is proposed to establish an earmarked grant that will provide 5,000 new patients with a daily offer part of the week. The daily activity offer contributes to dementing a meaningful everyday life, and in addition, it is an important relief offer for the relatives. A good and predictable relief offer allows demente to live in owner-occupied dwellings much longer. Independently of the municipal structure, there will be a great need for different forms of inter-municipal cooperation. When the co-municipal model is now legalised, municipalities will be given a new tool to choose from when it comes to the organisation of inter-municipal cooperation. It facilitates the cooperation of municipalities across all sectors under a common joint municipal authority and will be particularly suitable for municipalities that have all their inter-municipal cooperation in permanent cooperation regions. The centre party will focus on good public governance and control in relation to different forms of inter-municipal cooperation, in particular in key areas such as health and well-being. New tasks arising from the cooperation reform are, in my view, best organised either on the basis of the host municipality model with political meaning or on the basis of the joint municipal model. It is not possible to undermine the fact that municipalities face major challenges, both because of population development and because of several new tasks, but I believe that local politicians have both the ability and the willingness to perform these tasks in a thorough and good way, including in 2012. Today's document responds well to the challenges facing municipalities. Revenue is increasing, and the municipal bill provides a decent framework for good services to more and more users.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1634	The representative, Mr. Greni, also boasts that a lot of money has been brought to the municipalities. I will then refer to the central party leader in the central party-driven municipality of Gloppe, who has put down the fence and complains about the poor economy. Is it so that the central party leader in the municipality of Gloppen has wasted the money, or could it be that the economy of the municipalities is not as good as one hears, when it is shown that a person has transferred a lot of money? Could it be that a person around the municipality of Norway experiences that the money, the free resources, is consumed by a substantial increase in cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1639	Now I don't know the situation in the Gloppen municipality, so I can't comment on it. With regard to the school structure around Norway, the closures are often the result of low pupils, that they will have a larger educational environment, but also the result of economic challenges. The framework allows municipalities to choose their own priorities. In general, the local economy in Norway has improved considerably over the last period. We see that the number of posts in Kommune-Norway has increased by 10,000 only in the last year. What the Gloppen municipality has prioritised, I have no knowledge of. But there may be other services, for example: increase to care for the elderly, which has been given a different priority in that municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1648	It was the representative of Greni's rose painting of the municipal sector that made me take the floor. We have something called the Register of conditional approval and control – among the extensions: the ROBEK list. If everything is in order and good moves from being good to getting better and better, how can it be that the number of ROBEK municipalities has increased steadily since 2007? So they've gone from 42 to 44, then 48 and 49, and now they've passed 50 in 2011. It's a steady and safe slope, and a development in the wrong direction, at my discretion. How does it harmonize with the representative's praiseworthy words about the development of the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1654	If you call the rise from 2007 to 2010 from 42 to 50, well, you said, for a huge increase, you could rather wonder how we were able to bring down the number of ROBEK municipalities from beyond 120 in 2005, when the red-green government took over, to 42. This probably indicates that there has been a rather dramatic decline in that period. I think there will be variations in the municipality of Norway in the economy, in that magnitude, 42 to 50 – it will go up and down regardless of the local economy. We see that there are many municipalities that now dare to invest, and are able to serve the investments they make. Kindergartens are being built, happy day care places are being built, and it seems to indicate that there are several brighter places in Kommune-Norge now than it did six years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1659	The President just wants to remind you that all the speeches are to be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1662	Now it's true that there was a dramatic decline in the last few years of the Bondevik II government, among other things. because they had a successful economic policy which increased the natural tax revenues of municipalities, which improved their performance. But the years I referred to are five years under the red-green rule where development is going in the wrong direction, even boasting that budgets have been granted more than ever before. So the question remains: are you satisfied with the evolution when, after all, it's not a completely unscrupulous increase of 20 pst. from the base year 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1667	I note that the representative Tetzschner still describes this as a dramatic increase of 20 p.m., while a decrease of two-thirds is not a dramatic decrease. I can't quite understand that. I think this is a quite natural variation that is a sign that Municipality-Norway has now invested quite heavily, among other things. in nursery facilities. I feel that the whole of Kommune-Norge now has a strengthened economy and it is more optimistic, the borrowing also points to that. It has been problematic for the opposition that municipalities have received too much borrowing. I would rather say that it indicates that there is investment willingness and investment ability in Kommune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1674	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1677	The Christian People's Party suggests that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. This presupposes that power distribution and funding are such that both municipalities and county municipalities have the means to carry out their tasks. Municipalities are the main provider of welfare services. This requires a predictable and good local economy. There must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipality and the finances of the municipality. State reforms and impositions must therefore be followed up by sufficient free means, but these considerations are unfortunately not sufficiently addressed in the government’s 2012 scheme for municipalities. The Christian People's Party does not believe it is right, as indicated by the government in the municipal proposition, that the scheme for the local economy in 2012 will allow for improved service provision and continued growth beyond what demographic development, increased interest rates, pension costs and increased wages require. The reality is that for many municipalities there is a status quo, and perhaps even some municipalities unfortunately have to cut off important services such as care, school and child protection. The Christian People's Party believes that the community structure must be strengthened by 1 billion. in addition to the government's proposal, if there is to be scope for greater financial freedom. The need for increased quality of health care, schools and care for the elderly, user-driven personal assistance, resource-intensive services and child-resistance upgrades show that municipalities are badly in need of more room for action. The Christian People's Party has fought for a long time to bring about a rapprochement plan for municipal child protection. The Christian People's Party has, among other things: proposed a stepping-up plan to reach full child-resistance coverage by 2017. Municipalities report major unsolved challenges in municipal child protection. I am pleased that the Council of State Lysbakken has stated that children and young people should not wait to get help if they need it, but at the same time I would like to point out the still great choice of needs shown by the municipal applications and the municipal reports. This is about giving the most vulnerable children the best possible care. So also some thoughts about the interaction reform. The interaction reform is a very important reform and can be described as a reversal of the health supply in Norway. The biggest change is the organisation of health services, as more responsibilities and tasks are transferred from regional health enterprises down to municipalities. I agree with the principle of the Interaction Reform that major parts of the patient course should be transferred from the specialist healthcare service to the municipal health care service, but there are a number of questions that remain unanswered. In order to meet the new tasks of the Interaction Reform, municipalities need to build up both facilities and not least competences. This will lead to large costs. Even today, many municipalities have to make economic considerations heavier than the quality and professional standard of services because of the pressure in the local economy. It will also be timely to ask: how many municipalities are really clear when the reform comes into force in less than half a year? And what happens to the municipalities that are following? It is important once again to point out that this is a reform that involves major changes in all municipalities throughout Norway — across the country. There are changes for small municipalities and there are changes for large municipalities. That is why it has been the Christian People's Party's view in this matter that such a reform must be implemented at a pace that is appropriate. Many municipalities feel that this is something that is being dragged down their heads, and it serves neither the municipalities nor the patients, nor the reform as such. Finally, I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is involved in promoting in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1696	Those proposals have been taken up by the representative, Mr Hagesett, earlier in the debate. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1701	Christian People's Party writes in its comments in the setting together with the Advance Party and the Right, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In the media and in the political debate, the impression is that Kommune-Norge has been given increased resources to improve the provision of services. That is, in the opinion of these members, incorrect.» Yesterday we got the figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, which shows that there have been almost 10,000 more employees in the municipal sector during 2010. It would then be useful to remind the representative of what he said in relation to the 2010 budget: ‘This year the Community scheme is no better than it must be. It is a tight budget that does not increase the action space of the municipalities.» It must be frustrating for local politicians around our country to take the lead in the policy of the government. With the fascist in hand – does the representative Becquerad see that his characteristic of the 2010 budget was perhaps somewhat pessimistic? And can it not also be that the representative is mistaken in his predictions about the 2012 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1716	It's interesting to read statistics, and it's interesting to see what it is in these statistics that you might not be so very busy pointing at. Municipality-Norway is very different. It would have been very interesting to see whether these 10,000 jobs are evenly distributed around all municipalities in Norway. It's not safe they are. And it would be very interesting to see where these municipalities that have gone into increased employment have got the income from. Can it be, for example, have they increased the tax on housing, that they have been forced to raise income in this way to hire more? Because there is a need for more employees, and I pointed out in my reply to the representative Ingelill Olsen on the dignity guarantee, who will require far more employees than the 10,000 new jobs that have been created in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1723	The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, is about a proposal that is about bringing the corporate tax back to the municipalities. Instead, I challenged Trond Helleland to know whether he knows any kind of statistics, research – anything – that shows that increased industrial taxation for municipalities will lead to increased investment in industry. On the contrary, as we know, it will lead to more money for some power municipalities and to those municipalities that have people with the highest income, the highest employment rate and the lowest unemployment rate. My impression is that the city councils have a natural magnetism on the population that comes along, while a good part of the district councils have bigger problems, and there are all the politicians across the parties engaged in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1730	Like the Right Party and the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party are concerned that municipalities should also be allowed to retain some of their tax revenues in addition to what the government provides, including corporate taxes. I want to repeat what Trond Helleland said: it is important that we also stimulate municipalities to drive business development. This applies to both small and large municipalities, and corporate tax can be an incentive to actually put considerable work into it. In this there is also a recognition that the government does not deliver enough. Municipalities must also provide their own income. As I said, we want to allow municipalities to retain more of their tax revenues than the government provides, so that they can produce good, important services for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1736	Now, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold makes the same mistake that both the Advance Party and the Right often do when they present this, namely to present this as a argument that there will be more money to the municipalities if you give them the opportunity to keep some of the corporate tax. The truth is, as in the previous government, that the framework transfers to all municipalities are taken away and given to the municipalities that have the largest entrepreneurial income and the largest tax revenue. So there are some of the richest power municipalities, these are the rich municipalities of Asker and Bærum, and there are some city municipalities that have a natural magnetism. I repeat the question: is it such that Geir Jørgen Bekkevold or the Progression Party or the Right, for that matter, can provide any evidence that there is a greater commitment to the development of nutrition in the municipalities if you have this type of business tax brought back to the municipalities, at the expense of all the others who are more underprivileged?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1743	He repeats the same question, and I must also be allowed to repeat the same answer: it is important to look for good incentives that allow municipalities to increase their income, then produce good services for the population. This is a small element that can matter if not all municipalities, so at least for a large number of municipalities, precisely because it stimulates economic development. It's incredibly important that we put in those incentives as long as the municipalities don't get to transfer what they need, for example. to expand the care for the elderly as we have agreed that a must, but on which the government does not deliver in the form of transfers to the municipalities. So this is about providing incentives that allow municipalities to improve their ability to increase their income by retaining more of their ordinary tax revenues, but also stimulating business by retaining some of the corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1750	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1753	Now we are faced with a local election, and in the Left we have managed to mobilize between 6,000 and 7,000 people who are willing to make choices on our lists. They are, as Trond Helleland said, very motivated, and want to do a job for their communities and improve their community. From the left's point of view, there are two major challenges in terms of the job they are put to do, firstly, the incredible structural conservative attitude we have in relation to the municipal structure, and secondly, the eagerness to regulate and control the municipalities from this room. When citizens meet the welfare state, or when citizens meet in the community their institutions, they almost always meet the municipality. And the best solutions are made locally. It is best both economically and in the way money is managed, to find good local solutions, and it is best for the individual citizen to create solutions that are tailored to the citizen and not adapted to what looks good from a remark in the main hall or from a VG front page. We are now embarking on a major interaction reform in which the Left supports the intentions, but which requires a high degree of professionalism. The challenge for the welfare country now lies in achieving a high level of professionalism. That's why the Left believes that we should have a plan to get bigger municipalities that could pursue this skill and win in the fight for professionals, which is what's going to be the future district struggle. The left does not want larger municipalities for savings, but we want larger municipalities because we want to delegate more power down. We want to make it easier to do local priorities, and then we need units that are able to take on that responsibility. The second major challenge in terms of municipal power is government governance. We have heard that there is a message coming, but we have nevertheless made a proposal here in the Chamber, which I would like to raise, as we want a proper review of all the rules and regulations. Because the government is right that there is less earring now than it was before. The centre party has certainly taken care of all budgetary reasons to fight against ringing. But it does not help to win the battle for earring if you constantly make more regulations, rules and laws on how to work in each municipality. One third of the municipalities refer, inter alia, to: that they report too much, and Norwegian municipalities spend around 700 annual works only on reporting on government figures. Local democracy is governed by between 4000 and 7000 paragraphs and regulations. The fact that you can't be more precise than the fact that it's between 4,000 and 7,000, is probably saying in itself how we run our local democracy. Things don't get any fairer by making more rules. We think it's going to be fairer by delegating more power. The left is very happy that 16-year-olds in many municipalities have their voting rights tested. But when you ask the 16-year-olds what's going on for them to vote, they answer that then their voice must mean something. If a 16-year-old's voice is actually going to mean something in the municipalities, we have to give more power to the individual municipality, and not just produce politicians who are disillusioned and declared over our local democracy every time we mobilize people into elections. The left will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1, 2, 3 and 11, plus our own, which we hope we get support for. Now I have 50 seconds left, and if I had had time, I would take on my history teacher's job and talk a little bit about the history of hard work in Norway. History of virtue is dramatically much older than socialism. History of drug use in Norway goes back thousands of years in time. Drug use in Norway has been based on free, maritime citizens – not threats of hell. This might be where we come to the difference in the views of the Left and SV on the Community. We believe that community is built between free, maritime citizens, while some believe that the best community will exist when someone can threaten their own place in hell.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1774	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1779	When the Left challenges me on hard work, I set up, I! I have a challenge for the Left, because I believe that the Left bombs on one important thing in the matter of hard work. Otherwise, I don't believe in hell, so I don't have any trouble with the horror propaganda that the neighbor put up with. The challenge is: Like The Spirit Level, the book that points to a good deal of relationships between economic equality, small differences in a society and the trust between people in a society, I think that Trine Skei Grande and I agree that trust between people is a prerequisite for us to set each other up in good communities and create good communities, and to work together. Isn't it important then, does Trine Skei Grande, to contribute to a social development where the economic differences between peoples are small instead, as they have been throughout Western Europe, that they have grown in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1788	I believe first and foremost in heaven, and I'm not so very concerned about hell, so I won't be moved by it. What the representative Holmås must understand, is that much of what is called community in Norway, has not been built on socialism. The major Community reforms built in this country, in this room, such as the sickness pay scheme, the 8-hour day – all the important reforms – are built on social liberalism, which has as its starting point free citizens. I mean, of course, like Heikki Holmås, that you build community by not having big differences in a society, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't have differences. It doesn't mean that people shouldn't have the drive to want to be involved in influencing future saying, desire and actually get to be rich in a society, too. There is also a driving force that produces something positive in a society, and that is enough where the difference between the socialist and the liberal lies. I think it also brings freedom, community and well-being when we leave that drive behind people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1795	I fully agree with Trine Skei Grande that the freedom of people, the freedom to speak, the freedom to vote, to choose, to organize, to participate in trade unions to fight for social justice are fundamental freedoms – all of this – that I think Trine Skei Grande and I are perfectly in agreement. Take, for example: this city. This city is the country's most classed city. Here, the Left Party repeatedly chooses to support the Progress Party and the Right City Council – a council that has city council representatives who say they don't see it as their job to smooth out the social differences in Oslo. So it's in a city where the difference in life between the districts that Trine Skei Grande and I live in, and the west edge is up to 12 years – 12 years of life difference! The question is, isn't it a goal to bring down the differences in living life and the economic differences that are responsible for precisely this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1802	Of course it is, and the left-hand side sees it as important. That's why the Left Press through the budgetary agreements we're actually pushing through with today's City Council, so they have to implement this policy, and so there's actually no chance that a socialist city council will come to power in this city. For people it seems to be a positive development. We've had so many positive developments in so many sectors in this city, but what we're getting into is SV, which is still going to centralize the city. Let me briefly mention an example: a maximum price has been introduced in kindergartens. What has this led to in Oslo? Indeed, this has led to an increase in the price of NOK 150 000 in income for single mothers, while families on the west side have received NOK 30 000 – NOK 40 000 more to travel with this year because the maximum price has been introduced. It sounds good from Storting's pulpit, but in practical politics it's pushed Oslo to make the differences bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1809	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1812	I want to start by putting Norway in a wider perspective: Compared to many countries in Europe, we are privileged. While other countries have to deal with a growing government debt and cut down on welfare schemes, we can debate the level of income growth of municipalities in 2012. I travel a lot around Norway, and I find that a lot of good work is done in municipalities for the benefit of people, such as the locals. Tolga Municipality. Young school students in Tolga can point to the exceptional good results in mathematics, actually among the best in the country. 9.-classes from the youth ball there won earlier in our second prize in the nationwide mathematics competition KappAbel. Tolga municipality is also a development-oriented school owner who invests in further education and who prioritises participation in the continuing training programme Quality Competence. Another example is Salangen. The municipality has established a transfer office that makes it easier for those who want to move to the municipality. When asked about the job, the dwelling and the nursery, the transfer office is ready to answer. The municipality also makes an effort to integrate refugees. For 20 years, the Salang has shown that they are one of the municipalities and communities in the district of Norway that have been most closely involved in the reception, settlement and integration of single minor asylum seekers. The government’s 2012 scheme facilitates the further development of municipal services, such as: kindergarten, school and care services, and for strengthening the operation and maintenance of the county roads. The cooperation reform involves about 5 billion dollars. kr is transferred to the municipalities in connection with the new tasks. I note that the municipalities have many questions about the reform, which comes into force on 1 January 2012. My response to the municipalities is that this is a major reform that will come into force over several years. Many clarifications shall be made on a state-owned basis. Local authorities should start planning, but everything should not be in place on 1 January. At the same time, I feel a great deal about the intentions of reform. There are more elderly people, the disease picture changes, and more prevention and public health work is needed. There is a need for a reform of decentralisation and prevention. My impression is that Kommune-Noreg himself thinks it's right to put this task to the municipal level. We establish a follow-up evaluation so that we can correct the course if necessary. And there are many of the small district municipalities that have joined together to create district medical centers, which are the model of much of the content and intention of the cooperation reform. The government prioritizes the municipalities. We've increased their revenue by 48 billion. kr. It corresponds to an annual real growth of 2.7 pst. for the period 2005 to 2011. This is the actual arithmetic rate from the technical calculation selection for the municipal and county economy. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party claim that under the bourgeois government, municipalities were given a higher priority, with an annual real growth of 4.2 pst. average. This is wrong. The number of the Technical Calculation Selection shows an average annual real growth rate of 2.2 pst. for the years 2002 to 2005. Since 2005, there have been 72 000 more added to the municipal sector, corresponding to 48 000 annual works. It has been absolutely necessary to get to e.g. full child care coverage and the development of care services. For comparison, 8600 more were added under the previous government. And I'm glad that the annual work goes mainly to services and no more bureaucracy. The number of persons added to municipalities increased from 2005 to 2010 by 14 pst, while the number added to the municipality increased by 2.2 pst. The Right Party and the Progress Party propose to increase the tax component of revenue to 50 pst. What kind of consequences would that have? For example, the progress party leader in Stranda will receive 1.4 million. kr less to walk with. The progress party leader in Us will get 3.4 million. kr less, and the Right-President of the South will receive SEK 1.1 million. kr less. The progress party leader in Fredrikstad will have 23 million. kr less. And so could a continuation with many smaller and medium-sized municipalities, where both the Progress Party, the Right and the other parties have spokesmen and many populace who would have a great disappointment. On the other hand, Bærum will receive 126 million. kr more. I am opposed to such a redistribution to municipalities with a high level of income. There will be more disparity in the provision of services in the country and no correlation has been established between the return of tax revenue and a stronger commitment to industrial work. It'll always be necessary for more money. My impression — after traveling the country and the beach around and at many municipal conferences — is that Kommune-Noreg is reasonably satisfied with the income frame for 2012. So I'm aware that there are variations in the economic situation between municipalities. Some municipalities are tired of balancing their budgets. I have great confidence that the people-elected things and the ability to prioritize the tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1834	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1837	The birth of the municipal minister is today the same as he has been many times before, and it is that the municipal economy is brilliant, and not only is he brilliant, he also gets better and better years a year. When we're around the municipalities, we still get another idea, another one, and that's that the community economy isn't very good at all. At least it's a fact that since the red-green government took over, the municipal debt is double. The KOSTRA figures that came yesterday also show that income from property taxes is increasing. It came in at 7.1 billion. kr in property tax last year. That's 9 pst. increased. There are now 307 municipalities that charge property taxes, so that's six more in the last years. My question then is: if the local economy is as good as the local government minister thinks, why does the tax on property increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1846	First of all, I did not say in my post any place that the local economy was brilliant. In my posts in the National Council of the KS, I have said every year for the two years I have been there, that there are some budgets, but they facilitate the maintenance of a high level of activity, a level of activity like this government, and we, have built up – not least in the first few years after we took over, when we added 13.2 billion in the first four years. kr in free resources for free prioritisation locally. In the four preceding years, the figure was 5.3 billion. kr. When we look at the number of years, the number of people to solve the problems, it says everything about the activity. There's a difference of 8000 and 72,000 added.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1851	I was delighted that the Council of State referred to those who report on the local economy to the Ministry, the Technical Calculation Committee. It must mean that the Council of State places emphasis on what comes from there. Then I have the pleasure of quoting the following from the same sample: ‘The level of debt in the municipal sector has increased sharply in recent years, from 20 pst. from revenue at the end of 2007 to more than 40 pst. by the end of 2010. [[...]] Debt build-up helps to make the local government economy more vulnerable to future interest rate increases.’ A similar development over the next four years would mean that the Norwegian local government sector, if it were a country, would be in line somewhere between Greece and Portugal. My question to the Council of State is: does she think that the right, proper level of debt has now been found, or is it too high?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1863	In all our communication with the local authority sector, we underline both the obligation and the right to prioritize their own resources, because earmarking is minimal. It is also the municipalities themselves that are responsible for having a balanced financial plan. The fact that we now only have 50 municipalities in the ROBEK register indicates that one has control of the costs. When interest went down, of course, no funds were brought in from the local government sector, they were kept. However, it has been clear – and clearly communicated – that if interest rates rise, the local government sector must also increase in order to be able to bite it within the limits they have. And then one in Kommune-Noreg will be happy that one has a government that takes the height to cover both price and wage growth, demography and pension costs, and that spends money on the new tasks that we assign to the municipalities – in addition to what is to cover demographics and price and wage growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1870	In the next case, we will discuss a proposal from the Progress Party to close the county municipality. In her letter to the Council of State to the Committee, she said that this was not the case; there should still be three levels of government in Norway: municipality, county and state. Then a new level of government, namely joint municipal councils, has come into force, a fourth level of government that is now to be legislated and introduced. I have a question: is the cooperation reform the only reason we get this fourth level of governance? What is the cost of bureaucracy related to this, is there any calculations made here? Or is this the Central Party's operation to prevent the coercion of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1877	The Community model is a provision for municipalities that want to cooperate on welfare tasks, as well as the host municipality model, which one has today. There is not a fourth level of administration, there is a co-ordinated cooperative body where the elected representatives will sit and rule. I'm also very clear that I want elected subjects if a user of the host municipality model. It is important that it is the local government that has a direct impact on the way decisions are taken, unlike other types of inter-municipal cooperation dealing with operations. Then the voters in the individual municipality will decide who will sit and rule. It is usually the administration that does it, regardless of whether it is the individual municipality or a cooperative body. Sometimes our common sense model has been opposed because a believer would prevent a municipal merger. Sometimes we disagree because a believer he wants to contribute to a merger. I don't think anyone's right. I think it'll be an organ of cooperation. Then the time will show you if you have a locally selected volunteer to merge or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1886	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1889	On the 11 county trips of the Municipal and Administrative Committee since the autumn of 2009, we have met many, many local politicians. They've had different positions and different recordings, but one thing they have in common. Not one of those we've met, not one local politician, has expressed any desire to regain the income regime that the council when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. It is easy to understand, for many municipalities experienced that they had to cut down on municipal services in the period 2001–2005, as a result of scarce frameworks and the demands for more efficient use were made each year. The representative Michael Tetzschner from the Right earlier today suggested that the number of ROBEK municipalities could be a measure of the health status of the Municipality of Norway – yes, maybe so. In 2004, after having been in government for three years, the number of ROBEK municipalities was 118, an increase of 61 from 2001. Nevertheless, Tetzschner today calls an increase from 42 to 49, an increase of 7 municipalities, dramatic. In fact, we have had between 40 and 50 ROBEK municipalities since 2007, and that this level is the lowest since the ROBEK register was established in 2001. Since 2005, there have been 72 000 employees, 48 000 new annual works, in Norwegian municipalities. There are many teachers, kindergarten staff and others — and it provides a lot of well-being. For example, every day with a red-green government, eleven new employees have been employed in the care services. It is of great importance to the elderly and nursing people throughout the country. When the Stortinget debated the municipal proposal for 2010 – 17 June 2009 – the representatives of the opposition one by one went up to the pulpit to warn against reduced activity in the municipal sector. The representative Bent Höie from the Right used the term ‘significant impairment’. Christian Folkepartis Bjørg Tørresdal spoke of «a municipal economy in severe imbalances». Now that we've got the fasit, we can establish that they were wrong. Now the angle of attack is different; now the Right claims that the ‘bureaucratic’ is growing in the municipalities. In an interview in the newspaper on June 8, we read that Right Jan Tore Sanner believes: ‘The first thing the red-greens did when they came to the government offices was to celebrate a party in Kommune-Norway.’ Just as the opposition made mistakes when they thought there would be a decrease in the municipality's activity in 2010, they now take, when they warn against growth in the municipality's administration. The Workers' Party is committed to the efficient and efficient operation of the municipal sector in order to maximise the provision of welfare services to its citizens. And that's actually exactly what's happening: Corrected for price and salary growth, the proportion used for central administration in the municipal sector in 2010 was the lowest in ten years. In other words, Norwegian municipalities spend their money on welfare, not on administration. In the period 2005-2009, the income of Norwegian municipalities increased by nearly 90 billion. kr. Of this growth 6 pst went. to the administration. 94 pst. went to school, kindergartens, child protection, care for the elderly and other welfare. It must be a cross of thought for the Right – who has announced the fight against bureaucracy – that the municipal sector is currently operating with less administration than in 2005, when the Right had been in government for four years. The representative of Trond Helleland did not answer the question of how the Right can think of it as a party, and at the same time felt that it had to be cut in Kommune-Norway. In any case, I am convinced that the country's local politicians do not recognize themselves in the horror of today's debate or in the fact that it is a 'buy party'. The municipalities use the increased income well. At the same time, there are several older people, kindergartens and schools have to be built – other good purposes are in line. Every day, Norwegian local government has to be sober and make difficult choices. There is reason to give the municipalities credit for prioritising care and education, and for them to run cost-effectively and unbureaucratically. Right play on the violent bureaucracy in the municipalities gives a wrong picture. However, it is worth noting, because as a signal of what the municipalities are waiting for – and not least what the beneficiaries of municipal services are waiting for – if the Right would come into government position, it is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1918	As one of the richest countries in the world, Norway should also have the best infrastructure in the world. And you can't easily say that that's not the case. This is precisely why the Progress Party is committed to a major effort on the road and other infrastructure throughout the country. Unfortunately, better roads have never been a cause of heart for either the Workers' Party, SV or the Center Party – when we see a county road network that falls at a pace and a scale that we have never seen before. Instead of allowing the state to be responsible for the development of safe roads throughout Norway, the red-green government transferred over 17 000 km of poorly maintained highways to the county municipalities on 1 January 2010. The truth is that the states, unlike the state, do not have the resources to adequately guard these roads. What does the government do with that? Indeed, rather than ensuring that the means of maintenance are in place and bet on road safety, the red-green speed limit lowers from 80 km/h to 70 km/h very many places. The government's passive policy means delays, queues, corks and chaos for most people. Discarded time use as a result can actually lead to people getting holiday feelings and holiday experiences destroyed this summer coming. I think we can all agree that there is a great distance in Norwegian transport policy – from the Progress Party, which will have a national toll-free motorway network of 2,500 km between the largest cities, to the red-green government, which proposes to build 240 km of motorway between 2010 and 2019. And there are certainly not many more kilometers of new road that will be realized with the Christian People's Party and Right policy either. Unfortunately, the gap between the offensive transport policy of the Progress Party and the red-green discharge has only increased in recent years. One of the reasons for this is that in the last few years it has become much more expensive to build and maintain the Norwegian road network, but the red-greens do not follow up with the money to do so. An example is that the material cost index for road paving has increased from 128.9 in the first quarter of 2009 to 178.0 in the first quarter of 2011. This corresponds to a cost increase of 38,1 pst. during the last two years, and only from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the first quarter of 2011, the index has increased by a total of 7,5 pst. This contributes to major challenges for county councils, which in 2010, as I said, took over 17 000 km of road that was largely poorly maintained, and in many places has an acute need for upgrading. Therefore, in the decision on the municipal bill for 2012, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal of 2 billion. kr extra, eartag for maintenance and upgrading of the county road network. These are means that will enable the county councils to start reducing the huge delays in the county roads. The aftermath is in a place between 23 billion. kr and 25 br. kr, which is probably a low estimate. Once the Transport Committee has traveled around and visited the counties throughout the country, we have made it a constant exercise to ask how we intend to stop and recover the decay on the county road network. Then most people admit that with the money you now get for this, you simply don't have an answer as to how many years you need to be able to recover the debt. The challenge is that with the money the county councils receive as of today, it will probably never be possible to catch up again. The tragic thing about it is that people throughout the country will experience bad and dangerous roads in the foreseeable future, because the state does not take its responsibility and grant the necessary money to take the fall back. The worst thing is that this emergency unit by the majority contributes to the fact that the vision of zero is badly damaged and killed in traffic cannot be achieved, because bad roads are very often either the main cause or are a significant contributory cause of accidents. I therefore hope that the government will make sense and support the proposal of the Progress Party for 2 billion. additional to the county road network in the 2012 budget. It's not very long since you had big challenges in Hedmark and Uppland, with floods and problems, which will make there a great need for extra money. At that time, the government could have made the purchase – and not afterwards – and granted funds to clean up. Here's the option: 2 billion. more to the county councils in 2012 will allow many county councils – at least the county councils in an emergency – to do something about the county road network that has been destroyed by floods and other natural challenges. It could be taken into account and done something with already, because it was known that in 2012 there would be even more money to take back the maintenance run and the expiration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1944	Since the financial crisis, the municipal sector has grown more than other areas of society in our economy. The local government sector provides more important growth impulses in the Norwegian economy than the activity of households, enterprises and the rest of the country. The financial crisis hit Norwegian business hard, and production and employment fell immediately quite sharply. Local authorities received more than their natural share of the fiscal policy package — and much larger than the municipal sector in other comparable countries. Much of this growth has been financed by municipalities by increasing borrowings. In recent years, as we've been dealing with, net debt has increased as a share of income; it has increased from 20 to about 20. 40 p.m., according to the Technical Calculation Committee. In the course of the debate I noticed that the red-green parties are very pleased with employment growth and increased consumption in the local government sector as such. One is not so concerned about the effects, what benefits, what services are produced for the population. So it looks like you're using the municipal sector as an alternative labour market, you're putting the labour force perspective on it. Of course, you can do that to a certain extent, but I think in this room we have to remind each other that it is not sustainable to employ the public population when faced with the decline of economic activity in the goods-producing sector and in the rest of the world. So this is the fact that the red-green parties tend to say that the use of money in the municipal sector is investment. First of all, it's not right, too much of the increased use of money is that you blow up the cost side in terms of operations. However, where municipalities invest in fixed installations, in buildings, etc., it can be seen that there is often little profitable investment, because many of the municipal investment leads to an increase in operating costs later on. This is interesting from an overall assessment of the social economy, because the prosperity of society depends on the use of resources in such a way that capital is channelled into areas that provide returns and thus the basis for new and later growth. Any strong, loan-funded growth will have to end at some point. For the local government sector, an increase in the burden of interest and depreciation, together with a lower increase in income — from tax receipts, for example: – be what will contribute to a cover. Therefore, the leverage ratio is dangerously high. So if it doesn't threaten today, it has the potential to be dangerous in the long term. It is also a threat to future freedom of action and can actually produce negative growth impulses later on when one has to tighten up from the level of consumption to which one has resorted as a habit. The consolidation of the economy in the municipal sector could later require greater adjustments and more painful changes if not in time. Therefore, the good times should be used to convert the municipalities more fully while they have resources and can finance this conversion, without in any way affecting the welfare performance of the population. I would like to remind you that the right alternative arrangement for municipalities does not mean less money, but smarter use of money. We also want municipalities to have their operating space, which is more financed by a local business, through their own tax revenues, and not equally dependent on public transfers. It is, of course, the case — including for municipalities — that the incomes that you have and that come from productive business are safer than incomes that you depend on are transferred from others, primarily from the state. So the right-hand scheme gives you evener and safer growth. We also see that the municipalities in their conversion work are still meeting standard requirements and regulations and laws that make it impossible to do things in a new and innovative way. Here they could have needed a completely different handshake from the national Parliament, which had more critically gone through the state regulations, precisely to trigger local creativity and new solutions. Another area is that new free resources, which in the municipal proposition appear to be free, actually agree to fill old gaps in the form of underfunded reforms. New free revenues thus help to cover undervalued expenditure resulting from old orders and policies. In this context, I would like to point out that the National Assembly of the country must also take an interest in the municipal structure, where it can be seen that voluntary community mergers do not exist. Even where immediate rationalisation gains will be available locally, we have also put it up so that many of the grant schemes actually favour the municipal structure we have today, and thus do not contribute to naturalisation and to the extraction of resources, for example. bureaucracy, which could have been better used by producing welfare services for the local population. I agree with the representative of the Skei Grande that there are two aspects to the merger. It is to have professionally critical mass – we live in a more specialised society, and there are many professional environments that become too spiders in the individual municipality – but I also dare to add that if you have larger units, it is possible – if you want – to bring the administrative part down to a lower level, because with the structure we have today, there will be some duplication of the basic administration that will accompany any municipality to be operated. Finally, I would like to stay a little bit with the Interaction Reform, which is mentioned on pages 75 to 83 of the Proposition. It's a very dark shadow over the Municipality of Norway. From the supporters of the cooperation reform, municipal co-financing has been proclaimed to be the jewel of the crown. In fact, this is a pretty big experiment, which unfortunately starts on a full scale from 1 January 2012. The reform is so great that one should have progressed more gradually. Knowledge of these theoretical notions should have been acquired that municipalities can really do prevention work, so that it can be read in terms of the consumption of specialist health services, before putting this theory into practice under very unforeseen and unpredictable conditions. I would like to point out that what is essential for giving people – in our case the municipalities – responsibility for keeping households with their own budgets is that they should be able to influence their income as much as possible and not least their expenditure. However, the very idea of co-financing, where a certain proportion of the cost of specialist health services at state level must therefore be charged, is an example of the fact that municipalities will not be able to influence in any way what this reform will cost them, because it is rather guided by the government’s need for expenditure support – i.e. financing the specialist health service – than by what specific needs are actually in each municipality. We can only see that we have chosen not to listen to advice from professionals and from the opposition to take the reform step by step and acquire knowledge of how it actually works. And you just get to record that the majority wants the reform to come about when it is introduced. In addition to the build-up of debt, the very effects of a reform that does not know how to function — if properly implemented with the funding principles — will be among the main uncertainties of the local government sector in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e1979	We want to give people a real opportunity to choose where they want to live, while at the same time ensuring equal living conditions for everyone in this country. The basis for the welfare state we have created is precisely that we have taken advantage of the opportunities that lie in the different parts of the country. Many municipalities today face major challenges in population development. People move from the smaller municipalities to regional centers, or to the big cities. This is not a development that is specific to Norway. We see the same thing in Europe, and perhaps especially in Eastern Europe. In order to counteract this centralisation trend, the government is pursuing an active regional and regional policy. Increasing value creation and employment by strengthening local and regional business environments, facilitating entrepreneurship, ensuring physical infrastructure and reducing distance constraints are all important objectives for the further development of viable communities and regions. The opposition has today been concerned that there will be many new jobs in the public sector. Yes, we have created over a quarter of a million new jobs in this country in the last few years – 70 000 in the public sector, but the large majority have come in the private sector. Local resources and their exploitation must be the basis for the development of functional labour market areas, where jobs, housing and services are seen in the context. Exploitation of resources must have local repercussions. In order to contribute to the reduction of centralisation, the development of small cities and smaller regional centres, based on local advantages, will also be important. A larger labour market, with more opportunities, will help to reduce the number of people who have to move and allow more people to return to an attractive job. Major urban areas and major regional centres need to take care of the function of balancing population development between parts of the country. The most important thing for someone to live in is perhaps that there is a meaningful job to go to — a job that fits the qualifications and training you have. When an increasing proportion of the population has higher education, the challenges are greater in the smaller nationalised areas of the country, where industries with lower requirements for formal education have traditionally been run. It contributes to the trend of centralisation and contributes to the maintenance of the biased distribution of income in a centre-periphery dimension. This is one of the reasons why redistribution is an important mechanism, which we have also strengthened by reducing the tax share of municipal income. Also in the future people will live throughout the country, in many municipalities, and everyone has requirements for equivalent services. There shall be no difference between basic welfare services in care, kindergarten or school. One of the main factors in ensuring this equivalence is skilled and competent staff in all municipalities throughout the country. In my opinion, there is reason to be concerned when there are still municipalities with one or fewer courses in child protection, which do not cooperate with other municipalities. It is at the expense of the stability and quality of services of some of the people who most need a good service. During the consultation in the committee, the Norwegian Nursing Association pointed out that small professional environments are a very central reason for getting nurses wanting to work in nursing homes and in home services in the municipalities. During the same consultation, Norsk Vann expressed concern about the lack of engineers in the municipalities. They receive support in NOU 2011: 3 Competence jobs – driving growth across the country. The sample points to the fact that many municipalities have small and vulnerable trade unions, and that this may affect the quality of services and hamper recruitment. I therefore agree with the Council of Ministers of Navarsete when she pronounces to the Bureau on 14 March this year: ‘The objective must be to make municipalities even more robust and attractive as jobs.’ When the municipal committee travels around many of the country's municipalities, we note that discussions about the municipal structure are taking place. In several places where this is discussed, economic incentives are sought to ensure real volunteering by pooling. The Labour Party believes that this is the basis for listening to and discussing the proposals that come up with regard to how this can be done. The above-mentioned sample also points to the lack of such incentives for voluntary community mergers at present. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to ensure robust, functional and sustainable municipalities – not because we have to save money, but because both the Stortinget and the local population are increasingly demanding what municipalities should do in child protection, in schools, in kindergartens, and in spatial planning, preparedness and much more. In short, the Labour Party will have functional and sustainable municipalities, because we need to strengthen, improve and renew the welfare offer, not build it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2011	Community solutions shall form the basis for the public to perform welfare tasks in the fields of health, care and work. One of the most important tasks for municipalities is municipal child protection. The children who need extra follow-up somehow need to be seen and get the help they need. Children who are in a vulnerable situation shall be confident that society is preparing for them. Unfortunately, we can't always do that. I get worried when there are still 70 of the country's 430 municipalities that have one or fewer degrees in child protection. In some municipalities, child protection has a 20-percentage position, and they also have no cooperation with other municipalities. If that's enough, we can ask ourselves. With such small job breaks or few employees, it could be at the expense of stability and quality of service for some of the people most in need of a good service. In many municipalities, they have joined forces in inter-municipal cooperation to get larger job breaks in the field of child protection. It makes sense to create professional environments that are attractive to work in. Child protection issues can at times be demanding, and sitting alone with the issues of a small community is not easy. By having larger professional environments, municipalities will gain better competence, which will benefit all parties in a child protection case. Intermunicipal cooperation has in some places resulted in an increasing number of cases. It is not necessarily because there have been several child protection cases overnight, but it may have something to do with making contact with child protection easier when it is located in a neighbouring municipality or there is an employee from another municipality you can contact, and not in a municipality with 1,000 inhabitants where things are very transparent. But when it comes to raising issues for child protection, we still have a lot to go on. Those who work with children have a reporting obligation that goes beyond the obligation of professional secrecy. It is therefore worrying that of the concerns that come to child protection, only about 3 pst. from kindergartens. It is important that the municipalities facilitate the feeling that it is safe to notify, and that the cases that are notified are taken seriously and followed up. The 2010 Report on Cost Development of Municipal Child Protection published by Telemarks research commissioned by KS shows that there has been a real increase in the municipality's total net child protection expenditure of 24 pst. from 2002 to 2009. During the same period, the number of children with child protection measures has increased by 35 pst. In order to contribute to providing immediate assistance to vulnerable children and young people throughout the country, the government proposed to earmark 240 million in 2011 in the State budget. kr for strengthening municipal child protection. The Committee notes the sharp increase in the number of children with child protection measures. The Committee is of the opinion that this increase is worrying in view of the fact that the group of children aged 0 to 17 years has not grown as rapidly. The Committee therefore considers that there is reason to review the responsibilities and responsibilities of municipalities and the State in the area of child protection in order to achieve a comprehensive protection of children's interests. The Committee also brings forward the recordings made by KS to the government-appointed panel to address the organisation, content and resource needs of child protection. The government has strengthened the transfers to municipal child protection and will continue to do so in the years to come. The government has increased the appropriations in recent years and has facilitated an increase in the number of child-restraint workers. We will have a full review of child protection, and the government will present a big message to discuss the challenges and propose new solutions. The reorganisation of child protection was carried out by the last bourgeois government. Of course, for the sake of the children, we will consider today's organisation, to find the organisation that will provide more children with the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2034	So far in the debate there has been a lot of focus on the growth of the municipal sector under the red-green government. It's completely deserved. 47 000 new annual work on key welfare and school tasks is a significant growth. It'll keep going, but it's just part of the picture. There are about 300,000 more employed today compared with 2005, and the vast majority of new jobs have come in the private sector. It's positive. It contributes to the creation of value added and good tax revenue for municipalities. Together with increased transfers, it provides the basis for new and better well-being. The most important thing, however, is not what has been done, but what still has to be done. In the evening post yesterday, there was an interesting ‘advertisement’ based on new SSB figures: ‘Norway is a well-developed economy with 2.5 million employees. [[and]] These are good times in view of strong growth in demand for 2014. Therefore, 220,000 job vacancies for both Norwegian and foreign workers are welcome to apply.’ [[...]] An important emphasis: Norway needs immigration of pure self-interest. We have international obligations to accept people in distress. We're going to keep that tab high, but not so high that we're left with a false picture of reality. Then we could easily think that immigration is a burden, as we do of charity, and forget that we are actually dependent on continued immigration for increased value creation and continued well-being. It requires, however, that we manage to qualify as many as possible for active participation in the labour market. Many of them will be needed in the municipalities. The community proposal mentions three key areas for better integration — faster residence of refugees, better language training and measures to ensure that qualified immigrants actually attend interviews. When the Progress Party in its comments calls this discrimination put into practice, it is turning the matter upside down completely. Discrimination is already there in full and must be combated, for obvious reasons. On 10 May, the Brochmann Committee's investigation into welfare and migration came. A key point in the sample investigation is the need to distort our welfare systems even more from passive social benefits to activation and qualification. We've already started that job in some areas. The introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants, the qualification programme for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, the New Chance Programme, with a focus on the large-scale qualification needs of some immigrant women, are existing examples of this. That work needs to be reinforced. Two days ago, the Kaldheim Committee presented a comprehensive study with 230 proposals for better integration. A key point is that, despite high levels of employment among immigrants in Norway, there is a need for an even stronger focus on the qualification of immigrants and refugees and with a much stronger focus on measuring actual results. The objectives of the integration policy must be not only to provide opportunities but also to make use of them. Yesterday, the newspaper had an interesting page 3 article that showed differences in approach between the two samples, but similarity in response – the participation of immigrants in the labour market has to rise. On 6 June, the Minister of Justice received an inquiry from the Berge Committee on the reception offer for asylum seekers — ‘In the waiting room of the welfare state’, as they called it. They recommend that the waiting room be filled with qualified measures, including labour market measures. In total, the recommendations of the three samples point in the same direction: systematic and more targeted qualification. It is the same direction that the National Labour Party's national meeting pointed out in April this year. We know enough. Now we have to act, and the municipalities have a key role to play. Thus, a good community economy becomes important for several reasons — ensuring good welfare services, providing qualified people to deliver them, and, last but not least, qualifying the necessary labour that businesses are already looking for, but not getting full access to. Thus, red-green municipal policy becomes the best policy, including for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2061	Like the previous speakers, from the Labour Party, the Progress Party is, of course, committed to succeeding in integration policy. But it's not like it's a one-sided size that doesn't depend on other factors. The fundamental, which is the basis for implementing integration policies, is immigration policy. When you do not see the two things in context – the record migration we experience to the Kingdom and integration policy – you will never move on. We need to make some fundamental changes to immigration to the country if we are to succeed in integrating those who are already here. But that's not why I took the word. I was actually going to say a little bit about local democracy. We are dealing with the municipal proposition today, and there are often parties coming, with representatives from the government and the government parties who are superior to each other in boasting and stressing the importance of local democracy. The Progress Party must be the first to agree, but it must also be demonstrated through practical action. And that's where this government is not a believer. So here in the country you can't build a veranda with a height of 2.5 meters without permission from the municipality. You can't perform a staff trip without permission from the municipality. But if you want to create an asylum provider, preferably in the middle of a residential area, you don't need a permit. Then it's free for UDI to do what they want. We've got a pretty good illustration of that. I refer to the Official Journal of Drammen and the Lierskogen, the reception of asylum there, where the neighbours simply feel insecure when it comes to reopening the reception there. It's people who tell you that you feel insecure. You don't dare let your own children move freely in their own habitat. You experience theft and atrocities, and to give a little example, there's a girl in eight years who tells you that she feels insecure in her own living environment. That's crazy. It may not be parliamentary to say so. But in a country where you're busy with local democracy, at least it says in nice speeches, like here from this chair, you're in the case of staffing, you're in the case of building height on the porch, but not in the case of people feeling security in their own neighbourhood. Because then they are run over and set up a reception without talking to the residents in the vicinity. I think it's sad, and it emphasizes that this government at all has nothing to do with when it's going to take local democracy seriously. That's why you have to put in place a system. One must involve the municipalities and stakeholders in a completely different way, as proposed by the Progress Party, in order to take people seriously. The only UDI in this situation offered the people of Lier who felt unsafe was an alarm — a housing alarm funded by UDI, correctly for a limited period of time, perhaps a year or something. It was it that UDI could help these people, who felt insecure in their own neighborhood, with. It's sad. You can talk with great words and great words about the importance of local democracy, and I know that the Council of State is taking it seriously. Therefore, I should have liked the Council of State to comment on this – that the Minister of State gave some thought to the paradox that local democracy determines the veranda and stabbure, but local democracy has no control over asylum recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2072	Municipalities are large welfare producers. More and more tasks are being solved in the municipalities near where people live. That's good. But there are also some challenges for many municipalities that have few inhabitants and are far from what you call central strokes. Scattered settlement is a challenge, but it is also a great good. We want to spread settlements in this country so that cultural landscapes, food production, opportunities for hunting and fishing and other benefits we have can be preserved. Most of the tasks solve municipalities alone, although it is more and more common to find together in inter-municipal solutions. Most people prefer it rather than come together, with all the disadvantages that most people see for themselves. And even if I wanted to see more municipalities join together, there are many very good intercommunal collaborations that exist, not just between small municipalities. Major municipalities also see themselves working together on a number of tasks, in particular in technical and administrative areas. The interaction reform will further challenge the municipalities, and in particular those with few inhabitants. My knowledge of local authorities in their own country is that they have now made a good contribution to that reform through inter-municipal cooperation. What is important to me in this context is that cooperation is committed and predictable, provides good political governance and, in particular, that cooperation is open and transparent, to the local government, to the citizens and to the public at large. My scepticism for the intercommunal companies, the so-called IKS, is that there is a lack of sufficient transparency and insight into what is going on there. That is also a challenge for the host municipality model. In the meantime, I have heard that model something disrespectfully referred to as the councillor-led intercommunal cooperation. Although it is wrong, it gives us some signals as politicians that we should be concerned about ensuring good political governance of intercommunal cooperation. The services provided there are the clear responsibilities of individual local authorities. We have to remember that, too. I attended and established the first joint municipality in Norway. For us who were involved in that process, the model responded to a lot of what I'm critical of when it comes to the other models. I don't recognize myself in, among other things. Right-hand description, that this model of inter-municipal cooperation means more bureaucracy. The evaluation carried out by the joint municipal model shows that it has contributed to both better and cheaper services for the inhabitants of the cooperating municipalities. I am very pleased that the government now says it will promote a bill on the law enforcement of the joint municipal model. It will give better predictability to the municipalities that have chosen to test this model and want to develop it further. It is also gratifying that the government will issue a guide on inter-municipal cooperation. I record that the guide will focus most on the host municipality model. It would have been good if it had also taken into account intercommunal companies and joint municipal authorities, I think, both to make the different options available to municipalities and to underline the importance of transparency in the choice of intercommunal cooperation. Without transparency about cooperation, local democracy is undermined and intercommunal cooperation is undermined. Democracy depends on the openness of all public activities and on the more publicisation of the activities. There are, of course, some of the challenges facing the privatisation of Community solutions. A number of headlines in the media about the working conditions of older institutions run by private actors clearly show this. Intermunicipal cooperation can be a good way to solve municipal tasks, but it challenges the generalist community and challenges local democracy. A good law and framework for such cooperation is therefore absolutely necessary. I will therefore once again stress the importance and joy of the announced legislative change and the future guide. Both will contribute to strengthening the legitimacy of intercommunal cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2087	Now we have in this room and from the media seen and heard the show list from the Red-Green politicians. This is in stark contrast to the signal that we hear out in Kommune-Noreg. In the municipalities in general and in the districts in particular its advisers, local leaders and local politicians from all political hues and tear themselves in the hair they need, because they are unable to provide the good services to their inhabitants as they would very much like. The Government Party in general and the Workers' Party in particular seem to be more concerned with providing bureaucrats than people who can perform the service functions that are needed outside the municipalities, such as: caregivers, teachers and others required to carry out statutory duties. Even if we in the Progress Party are not united in the way in which statutory tasks are funded, we see the need to strengthen the municipal sector beyond what the current regime puts in place. As a result, the Progress Party has increased the public sector's rights by 5 billion. kr. In order to ensure that the funds are used in such a way that sick and old, pupils in schools, municipal child protection, people with drug problems and those with mental disabilities are helped and supported, the Progress Party proposes to earmark these funds. We don't do this because we've distrusted our local politicians, but we see that the red-green local politicians around the country don't benefit from the funds for just legal tasks, but we're pushing around with opportunities for cultural projects and center renewal. I would like to present an example in Sogn and Fjordane, where one of our group leaders in a municipality was critical of a large and expensive cultural project. Then the Labour Party went to their group leader in the pulpit and said that one had no need to worry about the economy, because now we've got a government that delivers. The reason why I draw this example out is because red-green politicians in the districts believe in their central comrades' lists. The result is that the funds that the government boasts that they have allowed health and care, for shelters and roads, are used for a completely different purpose. When the economic crisis rises to red-green local politicians, they are quick to propose the introduction of property taxes to save the situation. Finally, the red-green politicians have perceived that child protection around the municipalities is poor. Once they have made that admission, which we in the Progress Party are pleased with, we think they should support our proposal to increase government's proposal by an additional 200 million. NOK, as we have done in our proposal. We want to show that the children's environment has uncovered a serious lack before the municipal child protection service. It's a revealed case where local authorities for periods have been completely without child-restraint coverage. The progress party thinks that this can't load small municipalities with an already pushed economy, but we'll just as fully say that such fractions are totally unsustainable, and that this is something that neither we nor the municipalities can live with anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2108	The municipalities aren't what they once were. And to be honest, they've never been. Although the line around the municipalities is essentially the same, the content is changed. Cooperation and community across municipal borders and administrative boundaries have reached the field of practice as far as possible. Different ways of organising cooperation are being developed locally. The working party will facilitate good local solutions. Yes, in order to be able to bet on the community, we need to organise welfare services so that they are available where people live and work. Creating values in municipalities and benefits of well-being requires committed and skilled local politicians and healthy national economies – childcare services for all children, enhanced child protection, improved schooling, increased skills and better care. This has been delivered by the government and the municipalities. Therefore, Norway is the world’s best country to live in. The working party will further – improve, strengthen and renew. It is an important municipal political election vow for all those who are about to take part in the election campaign for the Workers' Party. Local politicians are employers. This means that they are responsible for reducing the proportion of part-time jobs. After national meetings in the Workers' Party and other parties, few have not received that notification. The Joint project on a better municipality takes the responsibility of local authorities seriously. Quality, full time, reduced sick leave and increased competence are the main pillars of the initiative. The right-wing parties want less regulation in the labour market, employees to work longer, and trust elected locally to have less influence. Blue-blue municipalities have this as their leading election promises in front of the municipal elections. More stringent employer policies must be implemented, including locally. The well-being of the future depends on policy intervention to develop good welfare technologies in municipalities. The Hagen Committee today presented its report – on track. Well-being can be improved on the assumption that local politicians are familiar with what this technology can be used for and what it cannot or cannot be used for. Technology is not just support systems; it is good prevention, treatment and follow-up systems as well. The government will smooth out social inequalities in health. Welfare technology can contribute to this. New technologies need to be developed in social services, in the field of drugs, in mental health protection and in relation to persons with chronic and complex diseases. Technology saves lives, but it also gives people better lives. The Government gives clear guidance signals to be followed up by the Health Directorate. That's good! Children and young people are specifically mentioned in the health laws, the Social Services Act of Nav, and the Minister of Justice has promised, after an interview I had in May, that children and young people of convictions will have their own focus in the law. That's good. All these children live in the municipalities. The working party bets on children – they are future – and work on balancing lasting health differences starts with them. Action on child protection and the focus on children and young people in the law must be taken by municipalities. The interaction reform is a good tool in transforming legal provisions into practical action, and close cooperation with Nav is necessary. The Workers' Party is a guarantor of the ability of municipalities to create values, unlike the Right as cutters for regional business support and agricultural funds. Many communities in the West and in the rest of the country would have had major challenges this would have been the policy of the position. The Workers' Party will have municipality, community, and we will manage the community's values efficiently and wisely, for the benefit of its citizens – now and in the future. So I just want to link some little reflections to what is said here today. The representative of Trond Helleland is trying to represent the Right as a Freedom Party and is talking about the need for freedom reform. I have to say that to me it seems more like a merchant's attempt at selling the holes in Jarlsbergosten. The Amundsen of the Progress Party is talking about festivities. The opposite of parties are funeral speeches. It takes a lot of time for the opposition. But the funeral figures are more serious. They will actually bury the welfare state of Norway as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2134	All children in Norway live in a municipality, and the most, most of our children also attend a municipal school. Now I'm not going to minimize, but if you make a mistake when you build a road, it has economic consequences, but you can easily fix it again. But if we don't give our children a good school offer, it will have consequences that too often last life, with the challenges it presents in relation to lack of connection, for example. to work. The previous talk was about burying the welfare state. I actually want to go as far as saying that if we don't succeed in school, it will also help to give the welfare state a shot for the bow. We're totally dependent on succeeding in school. Then the municipalities must also be given resources. 95 pst. by Norwegian students attend school in the municipalities. These municipalities must be given resources to enable them to run a good school. We know, for example. that the most important thing about the school is to succeed in reaching all children and providing them with the best possible education is competent teachers. Competitive teachers are the most important criterion in school. In this case, there is a need for offensive continuing training programmes. You have to fill the teachers in pedagogics, in subjects, in didactics. It is therefore very gratifying that 4,000 teachers — 4,000 teachers — applied for place in continuing training programmes established by the government. It's maybe too small, maybe the number should have been 6,000 to 7 000 if we had managed to reach all the teachers within a reasonable time. But then it's sad that the municipalities are only given resources to find space for 1,500. Thus, the vast majority of teachers who have been willing to use their working time for continuing training are not offered continuing training because local authorities are not given the resources to do so. It can be solved in two ways. This can be solved by providing more funds to municipalities, but it can, and should, also be resolved by taking a greater part of the bill from the Ministry of Knowledge budgets. But then we agree in this room, I think we must have a school that sees all the children. I also have the impression that we agree that one of the ways to do this is the practical correction of teaching to a greater extent than today – something that the church, education and research committee is currently spending a lot of time discussing. But it'll only be party speeches and fine words to talk about practical correction if the municipalities don't give economic muscles to actually build the infrastructure that's needed to run practical education. It's almost like these kids are so lucky they go to an old school, which today has access to physics and chemistry, dormitories and school kitchens. Due to the pressures of the economic situation in municipalities, more and more schools are being built without this type of practice room. I just want to finish by saying that we mean something by creating a school that sees all the students, including those who need more practical education, we have to give the municipalities the opportunity to do so through a strengthened municipal budget. I drew out some numbers instead, that over 4,000 teachers want to spend their working time on continuing education, but that you can only find funds for 1,500. Then we're talking about that we're going to reach all the teachers in the course of something like 200 years. We must have greater ambitions than that for the school, which is so important for the future of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2147	Red-green batches contribute to the continued growth of the income of the municipal sector. We have a completely different situation for the municipalities and county councils now than just a few years ago. The red-green government continues its efforts in the municipal sector, because it is primarily in municipalities and county municipalities that welfare is created. When the growth in the income of the local government sector from 2005 to 2011 has been 48 billion. kr, it is clear that this is displayed in Kommune-Norway. We see it through the 48 000 new annual works since 2005. It is the annual works that produce the well-being of the municipalities. This is what pre-school teachers in kindergartens, school teachers, health care nurses, child protection workers and county dental staff are doing. Only in 2009 and 2010, there have been 5,000 new annual shifts in the care service. This shows that we are well on track to achieve the target of 12,000 new annual works in the period 2008–2015. This effort in municipalities improves services and well-being for citizens. This contributes to Norway being the world’s best country to live in. Those of us who have a close past as municipal politicians or state politicians, and who have been on trips before and after 2005, also know that the daily lives of the municipality of Norway have changed completely. This has also been marked by the inhabitants. It was not pleasant to be rapporteur in Overhalla in 2003 and to have to resign nurses and quit the nurse at the hospital. It was also not pleasant to be a member of the county council in Nord-Trøndelag before 2005 when the focus was constantly on cuttings and cuttings. It went beyond the quality of high school. It went beyond the quality of the county roads. At the time, the focus was on the county roads, how to get the dirt roads as far as possible safe. Today, the focus, as far as the county roads of the North Trøndelag are concerned, is how to get them paved for the most time possible. Reading the comments of the Committee has been both interesting and informative. In particular, I have noticed that in the comments from the Right and the Advance Party, words such as competition, freedom for the municipalities, increased local democracy and more ear-catching remain. How to get more freedom and local democracy by earmarking more of the money, I don't understand. I do not understand how it is going to become more local democracy in the districts if the cohesion between municipalities is to be reduced or eliminated. How it's going to become more local democracy by shutting down the county council, I don't understand either. If you put the county council down, it'll be smaller, not more, local democracy. The reality will be that regional state bureaucracy will gain more power and more tasks, and it can hardly be called the strengthening of local democracy, even though many statesmen have a history of politics. The county councils do an important job, and they are important regional engines for regional development. The counties are not over-municipalities but play an important role in promoting regional cooperation and strengthening regional advantage and thereby contributing to increased value creation and employment regionally. It is important to have a politically elected regional level that takes this role, because only politicians will have the legitimacy required to enter and take on the leadership in such regional processes. The administrative reform provided the county municipalities with new tasks. 17 000 km of road was transferred to county councils, half of the ownership of Innovation Norway, important tasks in the marine sector, as in agriculture, as in environmental protection, culture and important research and education tasks. I think it is important from this pulpit to boast of the county councils and the way they have solved their new tasks. Most municipalities have been offensive as new owners of 17 000 km of roads. They spend more money than the state did on these roads, and there's a lot going on all over the country in road construction. As an important owner of Innovation Norway, the county authorities have actively used the ownership. By owning Innovation Norway, the interaction between municipalities and Innovation Norway’s county office has strengthened. Innovation Norway is more widely considered as the county food department. The regional research funds are in place and regional research strategies have been developed and implemented on an ongoing basis. The strengthening of the municipal economy is also seen in the county municipalities. Large investment is made in higher education. Now there is a focus on quality and getting more people through a secondary education. New school buildings are being built in line with today’s requirements. It was something other than discussing the closure of high school, as we did before 2005. It is reassuring for municipalities and county councils that we continue to invest in Kommune-Norge, because we know that it is in the municipalities and county municipalities that welfare is created. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, was concerned about the situation in the flooded areas and how the county municipalities were to be able to deal with, among other things. the after-flood roads. Well, then, I can help to reassure the Progress Party by pointing out that the Prime Minister has already said far too far that, of course, the big community has to set up so that you can solve the new tasks and the extra tasks that result from the flood.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2168	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2172	The municipalities are closest to our inhabitants and provide the most important welfare services to the inhabitants – 365 days a year, day and night. On this occasion, I want to praise all the thousands of women and men who work in municipal service and who do a wonderful job. Recruitment of competent municipal staff will continue to be crucial for our municipalities. I hear in this debate that it is criticised that the municipalities also operate with measures that are not required by law. My experience as an old municipal politician is that the municipalities often have to carry out no statutory tasks in order to be able to carry out the statutory tasks in a good way at all, and in order to provide the citizens with good, comprehensive services. In this respect, I want to mention the responsibilities of the municipalities for working with local business development – and the importance of it. For smaller municipalities, it is essential that they themselves engage in active business development and local planning. The rapporteurs' efforts are often of great importance here. The government's clear objective of using the whole country is of the utmost importance for municipalities to be able to do a good job in this context. It must be not only about large, gigantic establishments, but also about the organisation of small businesses in smaller places to have the right to life. This is what creates diversity and attraction, and it is important that this continues to be a priority. Let me finally say a few words about municipal structure. I am of those who are well pleased with the wording of the Soria Moria Declaration that says that changes in the municipal structure should be based on volunteering. Of course, we should discuss which municipal structure is best for the inhabitants, and of course necessary adjustments should be made when it is best for the inhabitants, but we cannot sit here in Oslo and map out which municipal structure is best for our inhabitants. Nor should anyone live in the error that only the municipalities become large enough, all financial problems in the municipalities are solved. Let me also add that we must not forget the distances and the scattered settlement when discussing local economy or municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2185	It is the municipalities and the municipal economy that are the basis for many of the most important welfare services in our welfare community. Therefore, transfers to municipalities and the local economy are an important basis for the further development of the welfare society and the welfare systems we have. But the municipalities also have other revenues, and therefore keeping the economy in order to facilitate good tax access through good business activity is also an important factor in the ability of municipalities to solve their tasks. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to strengthen the community economy for 2012 by 1 billion. kr in free income in addition to the government's proposal. No party can argue that their approach can solve all the challenges facing municipalities – and all the tough priorities that municipalities have to implement next year too – but precisely because it is in the municipalities the basic welfare services are being developed and operated, it is important that we prioritise and put the effort right there. Our democracy, both nationally and locally, is a great strength for Norwegian society. But democracy also has some challenges. As there is a struggle for resources and for attention when decisions are to be taken both locally and nationally, there is often a danger that the strongest voices are heard best, reaching and receiving the largest resources. Nevertheless, it is a special obligation for us politicians both nationally and locally to see who needs it the most, and which voices need to be heard the most. The struggle to strengthen child protection has led the Christian People's Party for a long time, and we are going to continue the fight until we have a stepping-up plan for full child protection – and that it is completed. We are pleased that the government for 2011 has contributed earmarked funds. But we see that the needs are greater, and we want the funds to be increased. We are missing a clear plan from the government that shows that these funds should be stepped up, that this should not only be dealt with from budget to budget, but that the government announced plans for stepping up health care coverage, babysitting and other areas, the child-restraints now deserve to be fully covered by a national plan for escalation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2196	Today’s community structure provides a basis for good welfare services in 2012. The increase envisaged in the revenues of municipalities is necessary and important to capture population growth and the growing need for municipal welfare services. We see that in the municipalities there is a great need for resource-intensive services. This applies to the health and care of patients under and over 67 years of age, in the area of child protection, and to special education, in order to mention some areas. In the 2011 municipal proposition, important steps were taken when the municipal income system was revised and cost keys were obtained based on purely professional and up-to-date figures, while reducing the tax share of total municipal income. And the change in the tax rate in relation to the Right proposal to increase it to 50 pst., instead of reducing it, would mean a loss of income for a municipality like Horten of 8 million. kr in year. The new income system was, and is, an important step in the right direction in order to secure population-rich municipalities on both sides of the Oslo soil a income base and a framework transfer that makes them approach the rest of the Municipality of Norway. But even with the promise that has been made, it is still the case that municipalities in Westfold give the lowest transfers in the municipality of Norway. Vestfold has made a major move and has over time undergone major industrial and shipping changes. So when you see that, for example. The horde cuts low on the living conditions index and has a high proportion of its inhabitants on social security, it is no longer likely that anyone in this room believes that Westfold is the ‘gold coast’. I look forward optimistically to the continued development of the municipal income system, which means that all municipalities should have a real opportunity to provide equivalent services, including the municipalities in Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2211	We're used to the Progress Party having money no one else has. So is this year. They're overcoming the government by 5.3 billion. kr – no small sum, but since this year’s election, they have taken good care of it. They have not covered the loss of income for the municipal sector when they remove the property tax, nor have they documented what it means for the smallest municipalities that they are to fund unit-price transfers to schools, kindergartens and nursing homes. It is more than my district council that could shake the execution of unit price financing. The pattern of residence in Norway would be shattered. Not even Progress Party rapporteurs who run their municipalities with allocated red-green money have managed to remove the property tax. No one from the Progress Party has explained its mantra on differentiated price, and how it should work – perhaps because it will affect the districts and the sparsely populated municipalities, perhaps because it will move power and decisions from the local peoples to state bureaucracy, perhaps because it is a strong attack on local democracy. In addition, the Progress Party will remove the possibility for municipalities to collect property taxes. They should make visible in the position of the municipal bill how municipalities should be compensated for the loss of income. They don't. You can wonder why. The representative, Mr Hagesetter, claimed in his speech that municipalities are governed by a socialist system that rationalizes care for the elderly. I don't know about any of the localities, whether they're workers' parties, right-wing or progressive party-driven, which are rationalizing care for the elderly. But it blends into the black paint from the Advance Party and their somewhat special perception of reality. I'm not saying that care for the elderly is perfect or without challenges, but the concept of rationalisation is very special and gives associations to something we don't want to hear. The representative Starheim wasn't like that. He would sound because they don't trust red-green politicians who waste money on cultural and local development, and that everything is miserable and cut in Municipality-Norway. Here, too, there is systematic distortion of reality and belief in centralised governance. There is no confidence in local political judgement. And it's interesting to notice in front of a municipal election fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2222	Everyone remembers Erna's starvation of the municipalities, when she was a municipal minister, to force the municipalities to join forces and operate more effectively. This led to a lower level of provision in schools and care for the elderly and the health and social services that each of us uses. The government of Stoltenberg is going the opposite way. It is in the municipalities that welfare services are offered and performed to the inhabitants. It is therefore essential that municipalities be able to provide these services both financially and structurally in a good manner. The local government sector has been given a significant boost during this government. From 2005 to 2011, the real growth in the income of the municipal sector was 48,2 billion. 2011 krones, corresponding to an increase in income over the period of 17 pst. Half of the growth is free income. The growth of income has helped to improve the economic situation of municipalities and enabled them to expand the provision of municipal services and hire more. The government continues to strengthen the local economy in 2012 and adds to a total revenue growth of between 5 and 6 billion. kr. And that's good, because the Workers' Party has high ambitions for the welfare services provided. We want to expand nursing homes and nursing homes to everyone who needs, as we have done with kindergartens. It provides security and predictability for the elderly and for the employees of municipalities. We want more teachers and lecturers and more professionals into primary school. We will implement the Interaction Reform, which will give municipalities challenges in relation to cooperation on preventive health work and care. And we're going to carry out the cultural promise, to mention something. So it's a lot to use the increased frames for. Despite the improvements achieved in recent years, challenges remain. From 2012 onwards, the responsibilities of the municipalities will be expanded with the entry into force of the Interaction Reform. At the same time, the number of young people is increasing sharply, and the growth in the number of older people will continue in the coming years. In total, this means that the requirements for municipalities as welfare providers are increasing. By strengthening the local economy also in 2012, the government facilitates the continued development of the service provision. But increased resources are not enough. Municipalities must contribute by finding effective and thought-out solutions locally. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a new municipal structure in order to obtain functional and sustainable municipalities, and will positively stimulate community mergers. However, such structural changes should preferably take place on a voluntary basis. Due to the strong growth in municipal investment in recent years, there has also to be a strong focus on debt growth in the municipal sector. The main impression is that the municipal sector has managed the increased debt burden in a good way. The number of municipalities in economic imbalances is historically low. Finally, I would like to point to the situation of the Eastfold municipalities, which according to a survey by the SSB for the Ministry of Local Affairs this year is among the municipalities that have the most poor. Eastfold is an old industrial group in the edge zone of Oslo. The population is in transition, but still has poor living conditions and low levels of education. The changes that have been made in the income system have been in the right direction for the large urban municipalities in Eastfold, but these challenges need further focus in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2237	I just have a few comments on the post from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen. He claimed that the majority could not see immigration and integration in the context, and justified it in record immigration to Norway. I'm counting on that formulation to be carefully chosen, to draw a wrong picture. For Per-Willy Amundsen, just as everyone else knows that the record migration to Norway is now labour immigration, as industry demands, while the number of asylum seekers is falling. I also want to comment on his second claim, that the Law on Planning and Building applies to staffing, but not to asylum reception. It's also, of course, completely wrong. The Planning and Building Act applies to both types of action. It was a reference to what happened in Lier. I can then inform you that there are now processes going on around a possible continued reception of asylum in Lier, which is run under the Law on Planning and Building – among others. the requirement of access and its possible conversion. At the same time, I'm going to be the first to stress that the situation around the reception in Lier is not good. It's partly related to a bad history. We have also addressed it with the Minister of Justice, who agreed. Information for municipalities and the population has not been good enough. There has now been a meeting with the municipality, and one will continue to follow up the case – also from the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice. Having said that, I would also like to add that the municipality itself is required, under the new Planning and Building Act, to provide information to its citizens. So it is not like it has been produced from time to time in this case, that there had not been any contact with the municipality in advance. That's not true. For the time being, no account has been taken of the type of operation to be in Lier in the future. There is also important information, which is important for those affected. We are on our side, as representatives from Buskerud, to keep a good grip on this matter, and to keep it on track. In the relation between reception and environment, very much depends on how the reception is operated. I know that, because I myself have been the closest neighbor to an asylum reception over a longer period of time. There was never any problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2248	A dark picture of the situation in Norway is drawn from the opposition's side, because when a claim of evil is made in the municipalities, one really claims that there is evil in our country. I'm going to have to take a distance from that. We can see that around us, in almost every country, they have problems -- I'll almost call it a problem, not just challenges -- that's all ahead in this room. A well-being cutter, a lay-down service, a take-off from residents' dishes that one has had, because one has an economic situation that is completely different from the one in Norway. The description given by the opposition today contrasts in stark contrast with the studies done by the community's services. Because then, in fact, most people say they're very happy. Maybe one would say that they don't know better, but I think people around the country have a very good sense. It doesn't at all have cause in all the thousands of added ones, in bureaucracy, and not least in services directly against the inhabitants who every day do a fantastic job. I see it myself, at home with us. I see home health care, which visits my mother-in-law and does her day well, I see it around me in my neighborhood, I see it in my municipality, I see it in neighboring municipalities, and I hear and see examples when I am around in every other municipality around the country. Let it not be left after this debate that there is so bad in the old country, because it does not. There is a lot that can be better. That's why the government works with it every single day, in different sectors. But our starting point I almost believe parliamentarians in all other countries will envy us. We have to take that with us. I think Lise Christoffersen is a good answer to Per-Willy Amundsen's challenge, but he also challenges the Council of State on the relationship between democracy and running integration and building asylum recipients. The municipalities have and should have control of this activity, which they should have over other activities. Then there's been a hearing proposal out there, which the Progress Party has noted in the setting, and there's been a great deal of commitment to the hearing when it comes to giving the county council a right of referral to municipalities. Clearly, such a right of referral will challenge local democracy. It also shows the listening phrases. I will not comment on it more than to say that there is a large amount of work that can now be done in the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion in this matter. So when it comes to both asylum recipients and settlements, the municipalities are of course the most important body to close down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2263	The Council of State is right in one thing, and that is that Norway has a completely different economic base and an entirely different economic situation than the one of all, most countries. It's because we've won Lotto in many ways. We've found huge oil wealth, which in turn means we're operating with an estimated surplus on the state budget this year of 313 billion. kr. We also have money on the book: we have an oil fund that is now on approx. 3 100 B.C.E. kr. It is quite right that most countries envy us. But what's paradoxical about this is that while we've never, ever, ever had as much money on a book as we have today, the municipalities have never, ever had as much municipal debt as they have today. We have a national wealth, a state abundance. At the same time, one in many municipalities has municipal poverty, which unfortunately also affects its inhabitants. The representative, Ingenill Olsen, did not like the notion that I had used, or the sentence that I had used, that the government is rationalizing care for the elderly. I understand that the representative Olsen doesn't think there's anything particularly nice about it, but that's what the truth is. We now have a framework licensing system, and if the frameworks are not large enough in the individual municipality to fulfil and carry out the services needed in the care of the elderly, then not everyone is getting the services. Therefore, the Progress Party is in favour of a need-driven state funding of basic welfare services in municipalities. So that means we're going to have a differentiated price, which means that in Finnmark, services, as a rule, will cost more and receive better funding than services in central areas of the country. But the point of this is that if you have a need, it automatically triggers funding, so that everyone gets the services they need, regardless of whether a cage is in a rich or poor municipality. The representative, Ingelill Olsen, also said that we had not incorporated the removal of the property tax law and the removal of property tax in our alternative arrangement in the municipal bill for 2012. So that's why we just didn't get through to abolishing the property tax law, and then we have to start from what's real, that's that he's still going to be next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2276	I would like to comment on a few of the statements made in this debate today. More have argued that the red-green government should be more concerned with increasing bureaucracy than with increasing the number of posts among those who actually provide services in municipalities. An image has been created in the media that there has been a huge increase in the construction of bureaucracy and that the administrative share in the municipalities has increased. It's completely wrong. On the contrary, the number of administrative staff has fallen by a percentage from 14.5 pst. in 2005 to 13.6 p.m. today. Every day in this period, we have increased the number of employees in Kommune-Norway by 26-25 who provide services either in home care or in nursing homes, who are teachers, who are employed in kindergarten, etc., and one administrative employee per 25 out of service. The number of administrative staff has increased by 2,2 pst. in this period, while we've got a 14 pst. increase in those actually out of service. I think that's a very good share. The representative Tetzschner was very sceptical about the full implementation of the 2012 Interaction Reform. Yes, if that had been the case, I would also have been very worried. So that's not the case. 2012 is the beginning of a gradual implementation of the Interaction Reform. Municipalities are given responsibility for ready-to-print patients. Municipalities are allowed time to build up other offers, e.g. follow-up of chroniclers, respirator treatment in hospitals, etc., and the deadline for providing continuous immediate help is set for 2016. In other words, municipalities have four years to build up a 24-hour immediate help offer, either on their own or through inter-municipal cooperation. So there's nothing going to happen overnight, they're going to spend time building up this offer, and I think Kommune-Norway is able to get this in place long before 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2287	It was to the councillor of Navarsete that we were not to be blackpainted. It's in itself a good reminder rule, that, and a lot is very good in Norway. Otherwise it can't be at 15 pst. of the country’s income comes from a non-renewable resource — so one would almost have to actively go in to dominate the economy. But the elected representatives also have an obligation to see if there can be any other danger, even if we are carefree today. Then I'm a little worried that the Council of State is so unconcerned that she folds away, for example. a question of the build-up of leverage. So we've had municipal autonomy since 1837. Over the last four years, the leverage ratio in municipalities, measured as a debt in relation to income, has doubled — over the last four years. So the question is, is this an uninteresting observation, or is it just ‘sorters’ who dwell on such anxious thoughts? And then the next question is, is it uninteresting if this development continues? What can we expect in the next four years – a new doubling? When we ask these questions in all kindness to the Council of State, it won't be answered. Then it gives me the opportunity once to ask a question, which I did not get an answer to. I'm going to try to put it as fine as I put it in place, when it wasn't answered, and hope for better happiness now – and that was the following: Is the council satisfied with the debt in the municipalities, or is it too high?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2296	It was Mr. Hagesetter's posts that made me draw again. He suggests that there is almost an automatic means of benefiting all the people. It's not like that. There are a number of examples of that. It's enough to look to the Middle East to see that welfare is about something more than that. I also think it is in its place to remind you that the whole value of the oil wealth corresponds to approx. one year of work. What creates values in Norway is the work done, not least around the municipalities every day. It is also a bit of a paradox that if it had been up to the party that is most eager to spend oil money, Norway had no oil fund. In the 1970s, Carl I Hagen set out to sell all Norway's oil and gas resources for the ridiculously low sum of 10 billion. kr to non-resident companies. It would be dramatic, and there's a clear line from what we see in the municipalities today, when, for example. The company bureau of the Progress Party in Oslo wants to sell the municipality's power plant, Hafslund and E-CO. That's a little bit wise. If the political differences have not been evident here in the Chamber today, they are at least in the Municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2304	The previous speaker took my point, but it is an important point to note that many countries have large natural resources, including oil resources. But there are very few countries that have managed them in such a way as we have done in Norway. Despite the proposals of the Progress Party, we have had a wise administration, which means that all inhabitants of this country will benefit from the resources. Then to the representative Tetzschner. Right-wing debt reflects the high level of investment that municipalities have had in recent years – new hospitals, more care homes, more classrooms and not least a large-scale expansion in the nursery sector. We have to tolerate right-hand loans in order to improve the provision of services and build new or improved existing school facilities, hospitals and kindergartens. Local authorities seem to be able to charge interest and deductions on the loans they have. That's what we have to measure it in. The number of municipalities in economic imbalances is at a very low level compared to previous years. Of course, even if 50 municipalities can be said to be too much, at least it is only about approx. one third of what was some years ago. Then not all debts charge the municipal budget. Something is passed on to individuals and companies. Something is linked to interest compensation schemes for schools and churches, where the government covers interest expenditure. Something is connected to services financed by a fee, primarily the so-called VAR services. At the same time, as I said in the reply, it is important that municipalities think carefully about how they use their money – whether they can take the right debt and the right interest rate, in the same way that private businesses and private households have to think about it. They have to take the height of it in their budgets and their financial plans. Investments and loans shall contribute to the better provision of those in need. It's also an expression of optimism, the threat of the future, and the belief that one has a government that plays on the team, when one dares to invest. The level of investment has increased significantly. The activity level has increased significantly. The number of additions has increased significantly. In addition to having a government with which they can play on teams, it provides a better supply for citizens. It was said earlier in the debate that a hearer hears few or no shout – there was no call – that Erna Solberg should return to the Ministry of Local Affairs. That doesn't matter to me either. I often meet Right-Presidents, Advance Party Spokespersons, Christian People's Party Spokespersons, and Left-Puffeurs who express great satisfaction that we have a red-green government and not a blue-yellow government, as we had. The question is not whether the municipality minister is satisfied with the level of debt, the question is whether the municipalities can be indebted to them, whether they provide the inhabitants with the services they need, and whether they take the height of their long-term plans. As a local government minister who has strong faith in local democracy and in the knowledge that the local authorities, and the computing skills, are locally distributed, I take it for granted that the municipalities do what they should do, simply invest in line with the frameworks that the municipalities have. Finally, a small visit to a claim made early in the debate that growth has been so much larger in the State pension fund in the later period than it was during the Right-Registration, and that we can therefore spend a lot more money: I just have to say that the volume growth in GDP was 2.3 pst. during the period 2002-2005 and 0,9 pst. during the period 2006-2010. If we look at the GDP of mainland Norway, he was 2.9 pst. in the first period, and 2,5 in the second. It has something to do with how to prioritize within each frame. This government prioritises well-being and industrial development throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2321	The hall may have registered that the Council of State was given almost double speaking time. It was due to the fact that the clock was not set until it had passed between two and three minutes. The next speaker is the representative Gjermund Hagesetter, who has had the word twice, and thus gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2326	The reason I took the word now was a statement from the representative Haugli that Carl I. Hagen should at some point have proposed to sell all the oil activity in the North Sea to private people. I do not know about this proposal. It might be good to know what date this was. I doubt that this is a proposal that is made in Stortinget. My point is however that there would be no drama in this as the representative Haugli claimed. It has little meaning to the incomes of the state whether it is the state that operates oil extraction, or whether it is private that does so. Of course, it's because we have special taxes on oil extraction. Oil companies pay 78 pst. tax. They only keep 22 pst. self. 78 pst. So it goes straight into the state register. That means less who owns and operates the oil extraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2333	The President allows himself to remember that we have a long, long, long evening ahead of us, ending with case no. Twenty-one, where we're going to discuss fighter planes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2336	I took the floor to point out a few things in the debate that has been, but I cannot help but start my post by answering Gjermund Hagesetter. One is, what was suggested by Carl I. Hagen at the time was to do the same thing as what was done in Denmark, to sell the oil on the root. That's what you do in Denmark, where the Mærsk Møller is the one who cares about mild gifts and builds an opera in Copenhagen, instead of making sure that the money benefits the people. It's a way to do it – as the Progress Party would love, since it was about private capital – but it would have been bad for the Norwegian people. The second is: in the last decade, at the beginning of the 2000s, it was the fact that the party's Siv Jensen was very eager to put down precisely this tax in the oil sector, which, according to the newspaper and some calculations made on this, had led to a loss of between 1000 and 2000 billion. kr on the Norwegian oil fund. It is possible that this is small money in the world of the Progress Party, but in my world this is considerable. But the Progress Party now has to take responsibility for its own decisions, and we have to take responsibility for our own decisions. To Bård Hoksrud: You almost got the impression that there were no roads built, and that with the Advance Party, motorways were to be built all over the country. I don't know if it was a dream situation or a nightmare, but for many of us who don't want a highway over Hardangervidda, this sounds pretty terrible. So is the animal. It is produced as if no special roads are being built. I can assure the representative Hoksrud that with all my driving around on Norwegian roads, I notice that it is being built everywhere. It's built a lot of places. I have to admit that when Bård Hoksrud says that it is stupid to transfer this to the county municipalities and let people decide locally where to go, and that instead we will leave it to Bård Hoksrud, I would say that I have much more confidence that Terje Søviknes in Us knows where to go between Us and Bergen, than what I have to go to Bård Hoksrud. One last thing there, in relation to this idea that nothing should be financed by tolls: there are quite a few local road projects that come about because you locally choose to take the effort it is to pay tolls to get a tunnel that would never be prioritised on the Stortinget. I am pretty sure that the tunnel between Finnøy and Rennesøy in Rogaland would not be fully financed by Stortinget. But the locals there say they'd rather have a tunnel that they'll pay $175 for every time they pass, for a few years, rather than waiting for Bård Hoksrud to find out some time that he has some billion that he hasn't thrown out of the window, but that he'll give instead. The people trust themselves, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2347	Michael Tetzschner has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2350	I noticed that the Council of Navarsete allowed itself a little irony at the end. She had not registered any phone call after Erna Solberg, which meant that she would return to the Ministry of Local Affairs. I basically agree with that. But that must be because in that case the calls are overshadowed by those who want her into the Prime Minister's office – if you're going to base the people's opinion. But perhaps the most important thing in this case is to record the depth of concern – if it exists – at the Council of State for a development that her own technical estimation committee says is worrying. It is not then a question of whether the municipalities are able to serve interest and deductions at present, but they are vulnerable to an interest rate rise. Then it must be timely to ask if you are not concerned about the future, because if you are unconcerned, you are of course not able to formulate a policy that solves the problem when it arises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2357	Håkon Haugli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2360	I want to quote Carl I. Hagen, who from the Stortinget in 1975 said the following: ‘We therefore propose to sell the rights of Statoil, among others. in the Statfjord field to others. As far as we have examined, there is no problem today with selling 10 billion kroner of rights." He also called Statoil "gambling" and opposed state investment in the North Sea. As I understand it, this is also mentioned in Hagen's biography as one of the few misassessments. I also think it is worth noting that the representative Hagesetter passionately defends the petroleum tax of 78 p.m. That is what we are taking with us to other debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2370	It is almost a bit witty to record how interested some representatives are in words that fell into major debates almost 40 years back in time. If you're going to take that kind of comparison seriously, I think I'm going to remember that it was part of the big business that's here today, which in its time – it was probably in the '70s – was against color TV. So that's a lot of weird you can discuss if you go back far enough in time. I note that the Progress Party has never promoted such a proposal in Stortinget, and then the whole comparison falls on its own unfairness. I drew because I think the representative Lise Christoffersen, and, to some extent, the Council of State, took a little light on my challenge, which is that Norwegian municipalities feel that asylum reception is being set up in the middle of residential areas without actually having any opportunity to veto them. This is not about the Planning and Building Act; it is about the municipalities being powerless when UDI finds out that they are going to place asylum recipients here or there. In order to refer to my own municipality of residence, Harstad: The rapporteur was informed via the NRK Evening News that an asylum reception was to be established in the middle of the city, otherwise also in a residential area, and that is not a particularly good example that this government has confidence in local democracy when accepting that kind of over-management from the UDI. Similarly, this government is now going very far. When it comes to housing, you should not leave it to the local authority anymore, but you should also override it. In important areas, in important issues affecting the population of many Norwegian municipalities, they are completely overrun and act almost arrogantly. The only UDI can offer is an alarm — housing alert — when the affected neighbours do not seem to be particularly interested in the establishment of asylum recipients. Then you get situations like those that Maria in 8 years tells you about: I don't want to receive back, because then I don't dare to ride on the road or play in school anymore. It is a reality, and then this government is talking about local democracy. It's not for believers. So you try to say that welfare services are not dependent on local government finances, that you almost have free access to them. Here's the big challenge. The truth is that a health resort in Kommune-Norway depends on the municipality having high incomes, and that they like to have a footfall in the vicinity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2381	Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2385	It looks like it's my lot here today to correct the representative Per-Willy Amundsen. I'm a little in doubt if the representative can be corrected, but one last attempt: With regard to the proposal that has been at the hearing, on the new regime for the settlement of refugees, it is based on the fact that today we have a system that does not work well enough. People remain passive on reception long after they have been given a decision that they will be allowed to stay in Norway. This is bad integration policy. The aim of the consultation proposal is that municipalities should have a greater impact on settlement than they have today, by allowing the municipalities of a region, instead of dealing with the IMDi, to discuss and distribute the tasks between themselves, in a completely different way. It will strengthen the negotiating position of municipalities with the state in relation to what is today. So it'll represent a reinforcement and not a override.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2392	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2395	I understand that the representative Christoffersen wants to wrap up what is overruled by the municipalities. The truth is that Norwegian municipalities are not able to handle immigration policy this government is responsible for. That's what we see when municipalities experience getting asylum recipients in their midst, and experience problems when people go out into municipalities and integrate them there. The reason for this is that this government has no control over immigration policy. It is not right, as the representative of Christoffersen says, that asylum numbers are going down. No, the asylum figures for May this year are the second highest we've ever registered in the Kingdom. The government itself has increased its estimates. We are far from being at a normal level in the arrival of asylum seekers in Norway. This must soon be the responsibility of this government and stop pushing it over to Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2400	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2403	We can't leave the wrong impression. With regard to the number of people seeking asylum in Norway, in the first five months we are currently at about the same level as last year. Last year, there was a decline from the previous year in 42pst. On the issue of whether we control immigration policy — yes, we do. It is true that most of the people who migrate to Norway come from other European countries. The next largest group comes through family reunification, and thirdly, along with study immigration, comes asylum immigration. Just to put things a little bit into perspective, because Per-Willy Amundsen makes this a mistake. I find it interesting that while Per-Willy Amundsen looks at Denmark in all other contexts, he does not do so in the housing policy, as the government has done. We see that it works well in Denmark, and we think it will work in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see page 5000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2428	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2437	It could now have been tempting to pull up the big debate on the county council, but I'm going to try to leave it. We have discussed this proposal for a representative of the Progress Party in a proper way in the Committee. It is a majority that rejects the proposal and refers to the reply letter from the Council of State Navarsete of 25 May. The majority are the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, while the Right and the Advance Party support the proposal to wind up the county council – not very surprising when both parties have programmed this and have it as a goal. What I feel is the main challenge for the county in the future, as long as it exists, is to prove that the county council actually contributes to a strengthened local democracy. Some people were a little bit concerned with that in the debate on the communicative proposition. I believe that the regional reform, which was already inflated in advance, and which became much smaller than what you had thought, has not given the county councils any increased status in the population. Unfortunately, participation in local elections is very low, and it is even lower in county elections than in municipal elections. The county community creates very little — at least in large parts of the country — local political commitment. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, states: ‘A living and decentralised democracy with broad participation is fundamental to meeting the societal challenges in a good way’. Yes, the representatives of both the Right and the Advance Party fully agree. The problem is that the county does not contribute to this. It is the primary municipalities that contribute to a living and decentralised democracy with broad participation. I therefore believe that the county should be closed and that the tasks should be distributed between the state and the municipality. The county election in the autumn of 2011 should be the last one, and in the 2015 elections the liquidation of the third management level should be a fact. The Party for Progress and the Right shall, on this basis, promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to start the process of abolishing the county municipality as a self-governed level of government, so that the county elections in 2011 will be the very last.’ With that I have taken up the proposal I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2456	The representative of Trond Helleland then addressed the proposal that he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2459	It is well known for the most part that in the Progress Party we have worked for a long time to abolish the county municipality as a self-governing level. That is why we have put forward the proposal that is being discussed today in the Grand Duchy. I want to start from Innst. S No 166 for 2006-2007 on regional advantage – regional future. Before this matter was dealt with in the UK in 2007, the government had great views of a regional future. As most people think, even this with a deadly belly pad for the government. There was no major change in the regions. In general, one was that the government transferred very poor roads for which the government was responsible to the county councils. After the progress party’s view, it is regrettable that the government stopped the project that was to evaluate the county municipalities as they had worked for then, and that is, as far as I know, no evaluation has been made since 2007. The Party of Progress is concerned that public tasks will be solved at the lowest possible effective level of administration. Local elected bodies should and should be responsible for tasks requiring local political judgement, adaptation and priority. The population will then be able to experience the consequences of policy and to exercise close influence through elections. However, the Progress Party will point out that today’s public challenges mean that an urgent need to assess whether today’s municipal structure is robust enough to address these challenges in a satisfactory way. In this context, I would like to pay close attention to the interaction reform, which the Stortinget decided a few days ago. I am afraid that in a short time a race of intercommunal cooperation companies around the country will be experienced. At my discretion, this is a little desirable, and democracy is the losing party. The party of progress is of the opinion that the role of municipalities as a social developer must be strengthened in order to allow municipalities to take advantage of the space for local development and value creation. Since the Health Reform came in 1999, the state has not had tasks that, in our view, can justify this intermediate level. The county authorities’ strength since 2002 has been their owners and drivers of continuing training. It's not, in our view, a task that is sufficient to maintain a directly elected middle level. After the Progress Party's view, there may be several ways of organising further training, either by transferring the further education courses to the primary municipalities or by separating them as independent foundations with their own operational management. The party of progress is concerned that the municipalities should not constantly experience that local democratic decisions are being tested by the county council. Local authorities must have the opportunity to use discretion, a discretion which of course must be within the framework of the law. The point of progress is that municipalities should be able to determine, as far as possible, how to manage the areas of the municipalities. This includes policies relating to beach area, windmills, national parks, sea area and protection area. One might almost claim that the only argument to keep the county municipality is to keep a big bureaucracy. The Progress Party, together with the Right, therefore proposes today to call on the government to take action to wind up the county municipality as a self-governed administration level, so that the county election in 2011 will be the very last.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2480	I record that the reality of the county councils cracks a lot. As a county politician from 1995 to 2009, of which the last six years as a member of the County Council, I have to say that I am not at all familiar with the description of the county councils with which the Right and the Advance Party operate. The way in which individual representatives from these parties are constantly talking about the county council and the county politicians is provoking me. One thing is to think that the level of administration must be abolished, but as long as it has not happened, I would remind you that the county councils, after all, have an important role and carry out important tasks. This deserves to be commended to both the employees and politicians in the county councils. To mention the county municipality as something that makes us get more bureaucracy in Norway, must be to speak against better knowledge. If we shut down the county council, however, some people have to do the tasks of county councils today. And these "some" are the employees. There will be no fewer employees in the public sector by shifting tasks to other levels of government. They only get other employers. In fact, the vast majority of employees in county municipalities are teachers in high school or dental staff. Municipalities are both political institutions and administrative bodies. They include: responsibility for higher education, dental services, regional and local transport, strategic use of industrial and district policy instruments, operational responsibility for organisational instruments for industrial development and local community development. They work with county planning, public health work, culture and cultural memory management – to mention something. Many public tasks are best addressed in a geographical perspective between the country as a whole and the boundaries represented by the municipalities. This is the first task that concerns or has an impact on a larger area than the individual municipality, and therefore needs overarching solutions. Secondly, for reasons of economies of scale, tasks are best solved with a larger population base than most municipalities have. And thirdly, there are tasks that require more resources in terms of economics and specialised competence than the individual municipalities have at their disposal. There is a need for a popular regional level to solve many of these problems. The progress party is afraid of a race of intercommunal cooperation solutions, I just heard. At least then it is not logical to suggest that the county should be closed. The county councils do an important job. They are important regional engines for regional development. The counties are not over-municipalities but play an important role in promoting regional cooperation, strengthening regional advantages and thereby contributing to increased value creation and employment in the regions. It is important to have a politically elected regional level that takes this role, because only politicians will have the legitimacy required to enter and take on the leadership in such processes regionally. Not long ago, I was actually standing on this pulpit and bragging by the county councils for the way they have solved the new tasks they were given in connection with the administrative reform. This shows that county municipalities are well suited for new tasks. I believe that we should rather discuss giving the county councils more tasks than discussing putting them down. In the end, I would like to say the following: There will be less, no more local democracy, by putting down the county councils. All these tasks that need to be seen in a wider perspective than the level of the municipality cannot be transferred to the municipalities. Lowering the county will in reality mean that tasks will be transferred from a regionally elected level to the regional central government. There won't be much local democracy of it. This cannot be said to strengthen local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2497	This is a ritual proposal that the proposers cannot have any illusions about getting through in this Chamber, because it is well established that a majority in this Chamber believes that the county council is important for local democracy. Then one can say that it is okay for people, both before the local election campaign and before the next big elections, to be aware that with the Right Party and the Advance Party at the rudder, it would be put to rest – got less local democracy, no more local democracy. The party of progress, which in its time was started as a party – or as a movement – for the strong reduction of government taxes and taxes, is today seen as the warmest defender of a strong state, which is to rule over local democracy both at state level and at local level. As Åge Starheim says, municipalities will be left to decide on land policy and what else, that is, on operating schools, on which they want to fully commercialise and release in terms of letting go of commercial operators, and which will no longer be a municipal task. The same applies to care for the elderly, where they have to have a very state bureaucracy to decide who needs services, instead of what it is today, where a local democracy does this at the nearest possible level, where people can have contact with their nearest local politicians if they think it is wrong and where they also have appeals to state representatives of the county if it goes so wrong. So this is anti-democracy, in my opinion, and a shot at what is our most important democracy law after 1814 and the Constitution, namely the Presidency laws that ensured local democracy a good opportunity. Let it be. When it comes to the closure of the county council, we've seen tasks moving on go to the state level. I don't think any of us are going to evaluate today, for example. the health enterprise reform we have implemented is of the opinion that it has led to more local democracy. I think many will say other positive things, and will highlight other aspects of it, but there is no one who believes that there will be more local democracy and more governance and more understanding locally among people, by governmentizing the entire health sector. I don't think anyone would say that. We have equivalents within other agencies, where democratic control has been exercised at county or municipal level, and then the state has taken over. More outsourcing has been seen and less account has been taken of local business, local long-termity of people who are volunteers and who operate non-governmental organisations and others, and where you have more short-term state agencies operating in a completely different way. I won't say more about this. SV is for the county. We mean it works well. We want to transfer more tasks to the county council and to the municipalities around the country. We are positive about the cooperation that is taking place around us. We're supporting the process that's going on in Agder, which is getting exciting. There, the SV teams in both east and west have joined forces and said that they want one Agder. It will be exciting to watch the referendum there and the lively debate in which the committee was able to take part when we were down there. There are people who are going to decide this in a proper way. More than that, it is strictly not to say in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2510	The proposers call for more power to be decentralised and for tasks to be handled as closely as possible to the citizens and therefore want to liquidate the county as a self-governed level of government. The first part is completely in agreement with the Center Party, and the problem solution as close to the user as possible is one of our heart issues. Interaction reform is precisely such a policy in practice. However, that the liquidation of the county municipality will contribute to the decentralization of power, I disagree entirely with that. Of course, it will work the opposite way. The proposers take the form of a large-scale municipal pool so that the new large municipalities can take over the tasks currently assigned to the county. It is pointed out that municipal mergers are to be voluntary, while transfers to municipalities are to be reversed in a direction that penalises municipalities that do not want to be part of such a large municipality. This is what I would call voluntary coercion. As long as economic incentives make it impossible for smaller municipalities to exist as autonomous municipalities, we cannot talk about volunteering. I have no objection to community reunification, but it must come as a local initiative and as a result of real volunteering. Experience from Denmark shows that it is far from certain to save money on constructing larger municipalities, rather on the contrary. I think we'd have the same experience here. Today, the State covers all non-recurring costs of community mergers. The municipal bill that we have just discussed proposes to extend the period of disaggregation grants from 15 to 20 years. There is therefore no financial barrier to municipalities choosing to join forces today if they want to. The central party believes that there is a need for a strongly elected regional level, in addition to the municipality and state. Several major welfare tasks are best addressed at regional level, for example: dental and secondary services. Large parts of the national road network have now been transferred to the county councils, and we in the centre party hope that in the future we will also be able to transfer more tasks to the county council. We have a responsibility for value creation also in the districts, and it requires a policy of different solutions for different industries and different solutions for different regions. Sustainable development, good economic development, democracy, good planning and wise land use are best addressed with good local knowledge and regional interaction and governance. Then a strong regional level, a strong county municipality, is a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2534	The Christian People's Party suggests that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. Municipalities and county councils are first-line services for the organisation of business and social development. Meeting societal challenges in the best possible way requires a living and decentralised democracy. I see in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee that the government is committed to facilitating a living people's rule locally and regionally with elected representatives who take advantage of local and regional advantages for the benefit of the citizens, the business community and society. For this reason, three levels of government in Norway are to be maintained. The Christian People's Party shares the views of the Council of State and will therefore not support the Advancement Party and the Right's proposals in this matter. Nevertheless, it must be said that, in order not to confuse the county council and almost rot on its roots, it is important that this level of administration has tasks and responsibilities to defend that level. I share the opinion of the proposers that the regional reform was a very amputated version of a reform. The Christian People's Party also wanted larger and more powerful regions than today's counties. Perhaps the largest gift package of the administrative reform to the county municipalities was miles of poorly maintained highways – and thank you for that! I know this is the snow that fell last year, but we have to constantly assess which tasks are appropriate and what responsibilities it should be between the different levels of government in Norway. This Document 8 also covers the topic of community mergers. The Christian People's Party's position on this is that we see that it may be appropriate for more municipalities to merge, but such processes must primarily be stimulated by good local cooperation solutions focusing on local democracy, good services for the inhabitants and well-functioning entities. The voluntary nature must form the basis for the bundling of municipalities. For municipalities with large geographical extent and scattered settlement or peripheral location, it may be difficult to obtain aggregation with others. Therefore, counting heads and almost making a template on how many inhabitants a municipality should have in order to be appropriate is not very constructive. But I would like to make it clear that even such municipalities with large operating disadvantages need to be guaranteed a financial basis in order to provide the population with equivalent services. Then we also have to take into account that several studies have shown that people in small municipalities are probably as satisfied with the service provision as in larger municipalities. In fact, some studies also show that the population of small municipalities is more satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2553	As the case-leader said when he referred to my letter to the Committee, the government's policy is to facilitate a living government of both local and regional peoples – to have regional elected representatives who know their territory, who may see sectors in context, who may see developments and opportunities for development across sectors, across municipalities and, in fact, across states – because there is also cooperation like the Western Council and other cooperation councils between states that are important. For example, the Western Council is very important to obtain a ferry-free E39. Without the cooperation between states that saw the regional advantages of getting a free E39 in place, the issue had hardly been as high on the agenda as it is today – just to give a small example. I myself have ten years behind me as a state politician. It was ten educational years. I have also been in local politics for many years. It is a good basis to bring with you a Council of State in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. But that's not why I'm busy ensuring that we keep the county municipality. What I learned as a state politician was that the county council, the regional politicians, has possibilities, that they are important to people, that they are important to the municipalities, and that they are probably more important in areas where one does not have the big focus, such as Bergen, Trondheim, Kristiansand and Oslo – yes, Oslo itself is a county municipality and municipality – to teach some. We also see that the county council is stronger in those parts of the country that may not have a large city, where it may look as if there is a certain issue of competence and ownership for development tasks. Cooperation is an important link between the county and the county. Having country politicians and county spokesmen who are willing to build relationships, working with business, working with voluntary organisations, seeing good solutions for trade, business development and welfare across sectors is the whole idea behind me being busy with county municipalities having a place in the Norwegian administration system. I believe that many people say that the regional reform was not comprehensive enough. But it was a democratic reform. Starting on 1 January 2010, the regions were given responsibility for several new tasks and tools to achieve the objectives of the individual counties. They are responsible for the development of society at regional level. They have been strengthened as democratic actors. The background was, of course, precisely to strengthen the county in the role of regional development operator. Therefore, transport, research, innovation, environmental protection, planning and agriculture were important tasks to add to the county. The fact that one can see this in context, that one can see it across, that one can find the good solutions without being so sector-organised and oriented – as I am going to discuss in the big picture that the Stortinget will get about the state and the municipality – that some government sectors have developed to host, is a great strength for the development of society in this country. It is a great strength to have regional politicians who wish to know their country in a completely different way than one can when one sits in the National Assembly, without in any way discrediting anyone here, because here there are people working well for their states. But here's one with the whole country like the arena. In a county, there is one with a more limited area. One has quite different opportunities to develop local knowledge, to play with local actors, not least in business development, creating jobs, creating growth, innovation, cultivating the founders, seeing further education in the context, having a good time with higher education, developing cooperation across levels and sectors. So the county has an important place in the Norwegian democratic system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2567	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2570	The letter from the Council of State states among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘A living and decentralised democracy with broad participation is fundamental to meeting societal challenges in a good way’. My experience out there among most people is that there are few who are occupied by the county municipality. When I ask people if they can remember when they were last in contact with county authorities, there are very few who have been in contact with county authorities at all. We also record that the opening up of the county election has not been particularly good. I find it hard to believe that this will improve in the future, and think that we can do without this level. Are the government councils disagreed with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2580	This may remind you of earlier times at home in the county of Sogn and Fjordane, where we had our lines. I'm probably not in agreement with Starheim today – it has happened that we have our differences before as well. It is not the county's first and greatest task to be in contact with individuals in all parts of the county, but to be in contact with spokesmen, business, advanced schools, colleges, research institutions, building innovative, good environments for growth and development. That's the important part. This role includes: County Spokesman Nils R. Sandal in our home country tech. It's important what one has done in Florø knead to the oil base. It's important what you've been through in your advanced school. We've built new, forward-looking schools. Many parents and elephants are happy that they have regional populaces who see the need in the individual parts of the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2587	It was interesting to hear the old line exchange from the county council in Sogn and Fjordane. It was perhaps so interesting to hear the Council's response to Starheim, where she almost converted the county municipality from being an agency that would have contact with the inhabitants, to be a professional lobbyist who would contribute to the oil extraction in the West, which would ensure that the E39, the coastal line, would be realised, etc. I guess that's what the population has seen, because the turnout, which was 70.3 pst. – which is not particularly high – when the county municipality arrived in 1975, it has gone down steadily. Okay, now you had a slight rise last time, but the attendance is down to 57.5 pst. How far down must the electoral process go before the Council of State becomes concerned and sees it as a body with little legitimacy in the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2592	The councils are busy with election selection, associated with both county and local elections – as well as with shopping options. Getting people out of the sofa and out and voting is important. And it's important that people then see what important role, for example. the county has just to be door-to-door and to be on a team with the municipalities when meeting different parts of the state administrative apparatus, for this is sometimes a requirement for both larger and smaller municipalities. It's good to have a statesman with you when you come into delegations to go into collapse and government. So it's also an important part of the county council's role, because it's an important part of the development role of building its state and its part of the country. However, voting must be stimulated primarily by the fact that we, like national politicians, are promoting local and regional politicians in the context of elections, and not just running national policies and creating contradictions that in a way do not exist locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2599	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The next speaker is also from Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2606	On my property, several hundred kilometers into the Sognefjord from the west coast, a rich cultural memory has been made of the Iron Age and the People's Migration Period, as Roman diners from year 0. This should not be an article on the history of a multi-thousand-year European cultural impact on Westerners or, for that matter, on our entire coastline. It could have been – and perhaps it will – but it should be a contribution that I stress to Norwegian regions their close, constructive and forward-looking cooperation with other European regions. It is a rich cultural exchange, and it is not least about the transfer of experience and mutual stimulation to all development work. So we're talking about a multi-thousand-year cooperation tradition that creates cultural deprivation and development, and not least the development of our business, which in the next round provides the basis for value creation and jobs throughout the country. We Westerners and the rest of the coast of Norway have for all these thousands of years been aware that growth impulses and growth potential can be found in the rest of the world. And then I came to my main score. This work is currently being run by the county councils, in close dialogue with our business community. In order to use that expression, our counties have the regional competence. This means that they are close to local and regional business, and know the challenges and not least the opportunities that lie locally and regionally. It's important to be aware that in this context Norway is not particularly homogeneous. Yes, I would venture the claim that Norway is one of the least homogeneous countries in Europe. What is good development work in Eastfold and in Akershus is something other than what is focused in the home country. The South has its challenges and possibilities, while the West, also known as the Gold Coast — as everyone knows — has its potential. And that's how we can go all the way around the coast. Thus, it is crucial that we have a regional system for analysis, for the development of local and regional strategies and for the implementation of the development work together with industry for industrial development and value creation, to the joy of the whole nation. It is this system and this valuable collaboration for value creation now the proposers with little heroic effort will zero out and supposedly transfer to a state bureaucracy. It falls into the tradition where the right-hand side thinks that business development and job creation are a matter for the business community and individual companies. Of course, we in the Labour Party are deeply disunited.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2627	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 5001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2644	The President cannot see that someone has asked for the floor on this matter. – The representative Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2649	President, I have signed up as rapporteur of the case. I just want to add a few comments to the matter. Firstly, it is a pleasure to be helpful to the Ministry of Justice that Hans Tranekjer Andresen can be employed as an official in the Ministry of Justice. It's probably a wise appointment. Just a few words to general information on why the matter is here today: it is the case that the Constitution § 92 operates with certain subsidiarity requirements for citizens who, in addition to being residents, also have to be civil servants. It is not enough to be a citizen, you also have to have a right of origin. And you get that either by being born here and raised here, or, to satisfy the demands of being employed as an official, you have lived in the kingdom for at least ten years. Tranekker Andresen has not. It is the defect – if you can call it it – that the Great Britain then has to deal with, by going to what is called naturalisation, and it is precisely that one can deviate from native law as an additional requirement in addition to citizenship. I can also remind you that this is a provision that has its roots in the legislation before the Constitution of 1814. It was adopted as a regulation in 1776, 15 January, where there were also subsidiarity requirements in addition to citizenship in order to hold office. So it's like we're giving birth rights with this, and we've solved the Justice Department's problem. Then perhaps those of this assembly's constitutionally interested people will reflect further on whether this is a kind of rule that has survived itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2662	I should like to thank the President-in-Office for two reasons. One is that it was a thorough and particularly informative review of the matter. The second concerns the invitation to reflect a little on the provision in the light of the matter. Like the rapporteur, I am pleased that naturalisation has been proposed for the person concerned, as it is up to the Storting to do. But when such a case – which does not often appear in the Stortinget – is here, I think there is reason to point out that there may be a basis for assessing whether the provision, which the rapporteur had in mind, has survived. We kind of have a discussion about degrees of being a Northman – to what extent is a Northman? It goes on a scale, from having a residence permit here in the country, through your being granted citizenship, which we are discussing in some context, and now also to being a question of whether you have a right of birth or are naturalized a Norwegian. I also registered when I tried to do some research on this via a look-up on the web, that there is a discussion about whether it is as good to be naturalized as it is actually to be born here. The provision to which it was explained has its grounds in a very old provision. You probably had your reasons when it was introduced. The question is whether we should not discuss whether these reasons are still present, or whether the provision has survived and become an anachronism, which should have been abolished in a modern constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2671	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 5001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2687	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2696	1814-1851: In that period we had a provision in the Constitution that Jews should not have access to the kingdom. In 1942, November 26, 532 Jewish prisoners were taken on board the slave ship DS “Donau” and transported to Germany and on to Auschwitz. Only five men in this group survived the war. It was the largest deportation of Norwegian Jews during the war and is a symbol of our country's history. 2011: Jewish schoolchildren experience far more — and an increasing — harassment than schoolchildren from other religious environments. Harassment is everything from slinging remarks that – and there are people I've talked to myself, who have told me this – "Jew!", "Turn back to Auschwitz and suck gas!" to threats of violence and rounding. The synagogue of the Mosaic Religious Society in Oslo looks like a fortress, and after the shooting at it in 2006, many did not dare to visit their prayer house. Also, many would not be open and tell about their background — their religious background, their cultural background. That's the situation in 2011. Something has happened to the Norwegian society that we, as big-time politicians, cannot ignore. Being a Jew in Norway has become tougher. The study of the Oslo schools that came last week, it was probably, should be an eye opener. Nevertheless, we should wait for investigations rather than act as legislators and instruct the government to do what is right, and what is fair. I will give tribute to the Christian People's Party, which has promoted many very good proposals and which the Progress Party substantially supports. Nevertheless, I think it is a special situation that it is only the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party that support most of these proposals. I would have liked the Stortinget to be a little clearer and not, as I say, in the form of a note – especially from the government parties – referring to investigations and letters from the Council of State. We as a magnification also have a responsibility to do something. We've actually been given a new opportunity to show that we've learned from history. So we had the chance today, as a whole, to take action and do something about it. The investigation presented in Oslo School last week should not, as I said, be just an eye-opener. I think even those who have been most engaged in questions like this are surprised when you see such numbers that show that one third of Jews who participated in this study in school are exposed to events more than three times a month or more, as a limit to what we're talking about here. It's far, far stronger numbers than you can see from any other religious group. Then it's time to act. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are taking that initiative. I am promoting the proposals on which the Advance Party is associated with the Christian People's Party. So I'll just finally come up with a little correction. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2719	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has addressed the suggestions he referred to – with a correction in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2722	The proposals of the Christian People's Party highlight an important and serious theme with their representative proposal. The majority of the Committee of the Government Parties share the views of the proposers on human dignity and the efforts to combat all forms of discrimination. The majority consider it serious if this is what the proposers say, that there is a growing antisemitism in Norway. We record that the police and others believe that the scope of hate crime is greater than what is being recorded today. In the view of the majority, it is an important task to ensure proper registration and to contribute to lowering the threshold for reporting such crimes. The issue of travel has been on the agenda in the media for the past few weeks. As mentioned by the rapporteur, on 7 June there was a report on how antisemitism is perceived in the Oslo school. That wasn't a funny reading. There it is said that every second student in Oslo School said they have experienced that ‘Jews’ have been used to describe something negative. The majority are concerned that surveys carried out also in other countries show an increasing prevalence of negative attitudes towards Jews in Europe. If this trend is also observed in Norway, the government needs to look at targeted measures. The majority will not vote for the ten proposals of the Christian People's Party today. The majority believe that the proposal for an action plan needs to be considered in the context of the knowledge described in the letter to the Committee of 1 April 2011. The majority will await the study undertaken by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the attitude of the Norwegian population towards Jews and Judaism. It is expected to be completed in the spring of 2012. The information from the Oslo Municipality study of 7 June 2011, the NOVA knowledge status, 1990–2010, which looks at ‘Research on ethnic discrimination against children and young people’ and the national work of the government to be completed in the spring of 2012, will provide us with a broad approach to the issue. Several relevant approaches will be identified that will in the long term give us an important grasp of knowledge to both assess the need for action and, where appropriate, develop current follow-up policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2737	I think it is good that the question of harassment of Jews is addressed. We commend the proposers for raising a debate on how to combat discrimination and harassment against Jews. The report submitted by the school bureau on the harassment of Jews was very motivating reading. There is no doubt that there is a very clear problem that is terribly important. I myself have been on the SU trip to Auschwitz as part of basic history training for us and part of the development work. It is interesting to see how different it is between those countries that made a proper settlement to the persecution of Jews during World War II and those countries that did not, given the attitude of the Jews there. I stand as part of the majority here and am very ready to say at the same time that we believe that it is not right in such a context just to withdraw the question of harassment of the Jews. This must be made a broader issue of discrimination. There is no doubt that we have a number of minority groups who are subjected to harassment, and I think it is necessary to have a comprehensive policy to avoid them being harassed. When we see how often it is shown that people in school are being disfellowshiped to be ‘a fucking homo’ or ‘hore’, which is another way of harassing young people, there is no doubt that it is important to make sure that this is combated as part of a holistic policy. There is also no doubt that a good part of public vocabulary helps to harass other minority groups, for example. Muslims who are being drawn and who are being harassed to be Muslims. I think that's part of the whole debate we need to have. One of the things that are troubling in connection with precisely this – which the proposers bring up here and which are also affected in the remarks – is the very bit of mixing Israeli policies and Jews, because in the context of demonstrations against Israel's policies, such demeaning concepts and expressions of Jews also come out. I believe that it is important to be clear that we must have a complete discussion of Israel's policy and clearly distinguish between criticism of Israel's policy and the question of Jews, and do not touch this together. After all, there are a number of Jews criticising Israel's policy — Israel's conduct against children in the Gaza Strip and Israel's occupation policy. On my own behalf, I'm very clear on separation. I don't want to say that everyone is as clear. At the latest today, I read in the newspaper The Day: «The gifts flow into Jewish settlements.» The question is: Is it because the settlements are Jewish that they are there? Or is it because there are Israeli settlements in occupied territory? I would criticize it as Israeli settlements in occupied territory. But it's clear that at that moment, those who are pro-Israeli or pro-Jewish, depending on what they choose to be, produce this and interact with it, you also get a connection in the debate. There is no doubt that it is important to grasp this as part of a complete discussion. I also think it is important that the Progress Party, which is among those who are very clear about saying from and addressing this issue of discrimination against Jews, is very conscious of its own role in the discussion of other minority groups. A statement that came from Per-Willy Amundsen just a week ago, was it perhaps, was that «Muslims work less than others». It is clear that in the moment you wanted to replace it and said that Jews work less than others, you would have a statement that many more people would react to. I think it's important to have this in mind when we have a complete discussion about it. I believe that the recent studies that have emerged in several contexts — and also the job that the Directorate for Children and Gender Equality is doing — help to raise both awareness of the scale of the problems and good tools to combat anti-discrimination expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2754	The central party will boast of the Christian People's Party that, with this proposal, they are setting the spotlight on a social sin we must always have a awake eye with: Jew hatred. This is not acceptable in our country, and it must be combated. European countries, including Norway, have a special responsibility to take care of and protect the Jewish minority, because the Holocaust was just happening here in Europe. I share the concerns underlying the proposals by the proposers for a broad action plan against Jew hatred in Norway. We know that developments have frightening features, including: related to the presence of groups of migrants from the Middle East, both with a very strong criticism of Israel and in many cases with anti-Semitic attitudes. Unfortunately, the study of racism and antisemitism in secondary school in Oslo has recently made the problem even more topical. The educational establishment in the municipality presented a major report on 7 June, and it clearly showed that racism is a major problem for the small Jewish minority. One of three Jewish high school students reports that they often experience antisemitism. Jewish school life Hedda Savosnick said to Dagsrevyen on June 7, 99,9 p.m. by her Jewish friends had experienced antisemitism. The word "Jew" is used as a shell word in osloskolen. Hedda said on the newscast: 'That people should use my religion as a musketeer's word is cruel to hear. You get really scared." We need more knowledge about the actual situation of antisemitism. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has therefore launched a study on the attitudes of the Norwegian population towards Jews and Judaism, to be conducted by the Centre for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities. The study is completed in the spring of 2012. Similar surveys in other countries show that the prevalence of negative attitudes to Jews is increasing. If such a trend is the situation in Norway, targeted measures should be developed. The Norwegian Institute for Growth, Welfare and Ageing also carries out a knowledge status. This study is soon to be completed. Furthermore, the Mosaic Religion has been given the means to increase knowledge of the situation of the Jews in Norway. In addition, funds have been given to continue a educational project at the Jewish Museum. The Ministry of Knowledge submitted the report ‘It may happen again’, created by a working group chaired by Inge Eidsvåg, in January 2011. The report contains several suggestions on how the school can work against anti-semitism and racism. At the latest today, Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen promised 6 million. kr for the training of teachers to combat anti-semitism and racism at school. Finally, I would like to point out that the current action plan to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination expires in 2012. In this way, we will have sound experience from actions undertaken and much more knowledge of the nature and extent of antisemitism in Norway. I believe, in line with the government, that this should be the right time to consider possible follow-up of further targeted measures against anti-semitism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2784	To the representative Holmås’ briefing: Oslo Municipality’s survey of racism and antisemitism in secondary school in Oslo shows that children with Jewish background experience far more hotness than children who belong to other religions – therefore this case, and therefore these proposals. With a total of 3.5 pst. Of the students in Oslo secondary schools, negative events occur at least two to three times a month because of their religious background, the proportion among Jewish children is 33.3 pst. Anne-Britt Gran, who is responsible for the report, believes it is alarming that developments have gone from zero to a widespread antisemitism in secondary school in Oslo. It is not long since it was impractical to use ‘Jew’ as a shell word. Now over half say they know that this is happening. Teachers at school report the same trend. Some teachers can tell about the notorious hanging of Jews — everything from jokes to killing threats. Other teachers tell of students who believe that the Jews were driving everything, and have experienced that someone has said that they admire Hitler. The teachers also point out that students protest when someone expresses support for terrorists, but that no one protests against Jew hatred. Other teachers have encountered strong opposition to teaching about the Holocaust. “Jew ” was a widely used shell word, according to a teacher. These stories are about the everyday life of Norwegian children. One of three Jewish children is bullied, harassed or killed several times a month. 50 pst. by the children of Oslo School know that ‘Jews’ are used as shell words. The only people who haven't brought about this development are the government and government parties here on the Stortinget. The Council of State and the representative Hilde Magnusson, and insofar as the representative Heidi Greni, also uses formulations such as: it is serious ‘if’ there is a growing antisemitism in Norway, and if such a trend is the situation in Norway, targeted measures should be developed. The letter from the Council of State has been written before the figures in the report were presented. The question is whether these figures are a loud enough call to a hard-to-heard government. The Christian People's Party has taken the signals, and believes it is completely irresponsible not to take action in this matter. We therefore ask the government to implement targeted measures against the bullying of Jewish students in school. Another thing that emerges from the study is that two out of ten don't connect Auschwitz and Holocaust with Jewish persecution, while a slightly larger proportion say they don't know. Only half connect Auschwitz and the Holocaust with Jewish persecution. This shows the need for the Holocaust Day to become a mandatory anniversary that is marked annually in all schools. In this way, we can mark a skeleton in history and remind ourselves that this must never happen again. In addition, there is a need for teacher education to give greater emphasis to knowledge of antisemitism and holocaust. That is why the Christian People's Party proposes in this proposal to improve school education with a view to preventing Jewish hatred, including compulsory teaching of holocaust in relevant subjects, better teaching material and better financial support schemes so that school classes can have the opportunity to go on study trips to concentration camps, as also the representative Heikki Holmås has been given the opportunity. Now it's no longer about if or about. This is a reality, it's documented, and now it's time for the government to take this seriously and show the power and the will to take action. We now see that the Municipality of Oslo actually takes hold of this, and we expect the same from the government. I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2807	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2810	Previous speakers, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, and several co-sponsors who are in the room today, deserve commendation for the initiative to discuss this as a real problem that not only hits those who are hit immediately but that affects the whole of society and the entire climate of society we want to grow up in and want to have between us. Then I also have to say to the representative Bekkewold that these are very offensive statements, which also the case rapporteur had some minutes from, and since these are very clear statements that all decent people will take away from, I might be a little reluctant to immediately interpret this into that the government does not want to. I think we all agree that this is a problem and that we must be reflected in relation to how we attack it. Then we might be able to discuss which instruments are effective. I also want to say in this context that Norway is not a distinct society that can in some way be called anti-Semitic. I am for nodes, especially where our children in their childhood meet adults who set standards and norms of attitudes. The school is a very important arena for this. Debates like this can help raise awareness of it. So I would say that the whole community also reflects what tone we have in dealing with each other. Even policy actors must also think about their role models. Then I would like to remind you that there are some people here who occasionally are eager to warn against immigration, perhaps going a bit far in categorizing individuals from group membership. So maybe this debate can help tighten up the language – because it could be Muslim today, and it could be Jewish tomorrow. The evil comes as known in very many forms and versions. We also know that verbal abuse is often the precursor of other privacy violations, the ultimate consequence of which is the use of violence. That's why we have to take to heart this information we've received from Oslo School. It has been very good to get this on the table, which along with other research on bullying and harassment, makes us somewhat more knowledge-based in our approach. Bullying research has also remained a little bit of a fact that those who use bullying as a rule technique often grasp people's characteristics, even though they do not really feel that it is a negative characteristic. It's well known from the schoolyard that people with special looks, hair color, skin color, will hear it through growth. The question is whether we are present and norms are already at school level. The bullying research just says that this is used as a force to hit the individual. This reasoning leads me to the fact that what we have to build up is a defense against insult that affects the individual, no matter what reason you claim to have. The general and universal defence of privacy is what must be the main concern in these issues, for the damage is done at the individual level, even if it is justified by bullying or harassment with a group membership. I want to point out, for those who have good rock archives, that we have a very liberal public where you've gradually allowed quite large swings, and where it looks like you can tolerate quite a lot of wrong just it doesn't hit you yourself. Then I would like to refer to reflection and reflection on the day newspaper's impression of the Wulff Morning Hall on 14 May, which has a content that cannot be referred from this pulpit. And then you can think about, where does the boundary between plump humor, inconvenientness and what tends to be racism?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2829	Every 26 November, a torch runs through the Møhlen Prize district in Bergen, a part of which I have both lived and attended school. In the torch the inhabitants of the district, 17 mountainers, were arrested by the Norwegian police and deported from Norway during the occupation on 26 November 1942. 11 of the mountains with Jewish background that later ended in German concentration camp, lived at the price of the mill, and the torch moving from there, from house to house, and light is set on the stairs outside the houses where these town children lived. Racism has its basis in a belief that a people, a religion or a way of life is worth less than others. Racism involves a monstrous view of human and society. Antisemitism and Jewish hatred have a long and black tradition in Europe and also in Norway. Our own story makes us obliged to take it seriously. The Jewish paragraph of 1814 is mentioned. Deportations in 1942 have been mentioned – a far too close part of Norwegian history to take this issue seriously when we see that anti-Semitism moves again in our country. We may have thought that it was a major problem, but we see both the attitudes and the statistics of our own society that make us need to take a debate like the one we have today. I am responsible for most anti-discrimination and non-discrimination laws and have shown in my communication with the Committee on the Government's overall work on non-discrimination, where we try to facilitate as much as possible for all the various minority groups we have in Norway. The need for a separate action plan against Jew hatred must therefore be considered in the context of the existing government action plan to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination. That plan covers most sectors. Knowledge that we now acquire about antisemitism will also provide us with a better opportunity to assess specific measures against discrimination against Jews. It is a view that the majority of the committee also supports in its position. But I would like to stress that all the work we have aimed at racism and discrimination is also aimed at combating anti-Semitism. The existing action plan uses the term ‘ethnic discrimination’ as a composite concept of the discrimination experienced by immigrants and children of immigrants, Sami and national minorities. And Jews are a national minority in Norway. The action plan is also the basis for strengthening the fight against antisemitism. It contains 66 measures. It applies in many areas of society such as employment, housing, school, public services, research and documentation. A recent knowledge status of NOVA, already mentioned in the debate, shows that children and young people in Norway experience and are exposed to ethnic discrimination, and last week the Municipality of Oslo submitted a survey of racism and antisemitism in Oslo School. The report shows that 15 pst. by the young people asked are exposed to one or more events at school due to their cultural, religious or national background. The study may suggest that persons with a Jewish background are particularly exposed to harassment. In addition, the study shows that there are most negative associations to the words ‘Jewish’, ‘Polac’ and ‘homo’. If it gives a proper view of these different minorities, it's scary. Several of the proposed representatives have already been implemented or started. For example, the holocaust marker is integrated into the teaching of many schools. Teaching materials have improved, new Manifesto against bullying signed, and the fight against anti-semitism is well anchored in the aims of the Knowledge Lift. The Eidsvåg report on antisemitism and racism at school was presented by the Ministry of Knowledge in January, and it has made several proposals on how the school can work against antisemitism. The Ministry of Knowledge is working on those proposals. Antisemitism and ethnic discrimination are unacceptable and unlawful. This government spends considerable resources on combating discrimination in all forms, and we will shortly produce three status reports from the three main anti-discrimination action plans. I would like to remind you that it is with that background, and that this government has stepped up its efforts to combat racism and discrimination, that we also have this debate today. That is why I react when the representative Bekkevold speaks as if the government is doing nothing. This serious topic deserves a fair and honest debate, and I think the representative Michael Tetzschner had a very wise and reflective speech that I hope everyone will listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2853	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2856	I have a question for the Council of State Lighthouses: The government here argues that you need more knowledge and you're going to spend a year now on a study of this. In our country today it is referred to from a panel debate. That's what it says. ‘Both Solhjell and State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide stated that the government has underestimated anti-Semitic attitudes in Muslim environments. [[Ap]] – We haven’t seen this ‘new’ version of antisemitism early enough. We haven't taken this seriously enough, probably because we don't want to criticize weak groups in society," said Barth Eide." Does the Council of State agree with the criticism that Barth Eide is leading against his own government here, and does he believe that it is a good strategy to spend a year further investigating this before deciding whether to do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2868	As I explained in my post, it's the reality picture the representative of Åland is drawing, wrong. The government is doing a lot to combat racism and discrimination, including anti-Semitism. So I think it undermines the possibility of a fair debate on this if the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party line are going to be pretending that our answer has been that we should wait to do some things. We're doing a lot now. On the other hand, I agree with a reality that says that in Norwegian society we have not taken enough seriously the danger that anti-semitism could grow again. And I think that many of us are negatively surprised by the numbers that we, for example, are. from the Oslo study. I want to underline, and that's also the study, that these aren't just attitudes among Muslim children in Oslo School. These are attitudes that we also see well represented among children with different backgrounds, among other things. Christian background. That's why we're not going to make this just a question about the Muslim part of our population.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2875	To be honest, I must say that I am disappointed with such a passive attitude as this government has met with increasing antisemitism. I therefore have the following questions to the Council of State Lysbakken: Is the Council of State firm, as he writes in his reply to the Committee, that it is serious if there is a growing antisemitism in Norway? Is it still the reality of the Council that there is a basis for asking questions about it? The second question is: is it the government's position that we should wait for an adjusted plan to prevent ethnic discrimination in 2013 and that there is no basis for addressing antisemitism specifically in a separate plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2882	I understand that the Christian People's Party has decided in advance what picture they will draw of the government's view. Instead of listening to what I said, where I am, among other things. spent time describing my reaction to the figures that have come from Oslo, and show that we have a problem with anti-semitism in Oslo School, the representative Syversen is busy drawing an image that we are not concerned with this. That's wrong. The representative Syverse will also draw a picture that we're not doing anything. As I have explained, therefore, we have a comprehensive action plan against racism and ethnic discrimination. This work has been stepped up since the time the Christian People's Party was in government. We have a whole in the work against racism that we believe is also well able to prevent anti-semitism, among other things. at school. Then we'll get more knowledge when we get the study that the HL-Center is going to do for us. It will also give us the basis to see if there are any further measures we can put in. So it's not the opposite of doing anything today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2891	I actually don't get all the clarity about what the Council of States thinks, except to try to polemize against the opposition, so I just want to ask: Does the Council of States now believe that there is a basis for saying that there is an increasing antisemitism in Norway, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2896	I said both in my post and in my reply to the representative Syversen that I am concerned about the increase in antisemitism that we have seen in the Oslo school. That's what the Seven has heard me say twice. Now I've said it for the third time. I'd like to say it several times if he needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2901	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2904	This is a real and serious problem for the proposers. The survey from Oslo that was presented last week, to which several have already referred, is alarming in itself. It is a serious custodian for parents, teachers, principals, local and central school authorities, but also for us here at the Stortinget. For me, it is most alarming that one in three Jewish high school students experience negative events several times a month. In addition, it's very alarming that the entire 51,5 pst. by the students, the word ‘Jew’ is used to describe something negative. The study clearly shows that there is a link between attitudes and actions. Misspelled words are not randomly chosen words. Everyone must be entitled to protection against heat and discrimination. At the same time, we must be clear that the Jewish population in Norway is in a special position. It should be sufficient to recall that half of the Jews who lived in Norway prior to World War II were sent to concentration camps and killed. In Denmark, the figure was under 1 pst. Why was there so much worse here? Elie Wiesel has said that the opposite of love is not hate, but indifference. Oslo's numbers don't make sense of indifference. We must and must take Jewish hatred seriously. For the individual, it is equally serious to be hounded, harassed or killed because you are black, Muslim, female, disabled or belong to another group. Per-Willy Amundsen made a passionate contribution to Jewish hatred. Is he equally concerned about harassment because of skin color and cultural background? It is worth recalling the killing of Benjamin Hermansen in 2001, and the shooting at Hvalstad asylum recipients in 2008. Christian People's Party begins its proposal with the wording ‘The Christian People’s Party has the human dignity at its centre and fights against any discrimination.’ I wish it were just as clear and unambiguously expressed also to another minority who has been persecuted through history: gay. The protection against violent and hate crime must embrace everyone, not end up in a competition for who has the worst, or deserve our attention most. Of course it has to be done. The representative Becquerad calls for the majority to act, but with all due respect, there is a difference between not doing anything and not doing what the Christian People's Party wants. Knowledge is crucial in the fight against extremism and hate crime. I want to take the opportunity to praise the Municipality of Oslo for carrying out the above-mentioned attitude study, and it must not stop there. The initiatives outlined by the Council of State in its reply to the Committee are all important and there is no doubt about the views and clarity of the Workers' Party. Extremism, racism and Jewry must be combated, and we both want to and must contribute to the development of the necessary tools and their use.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2926	I'm glad of the last article. That's what I think was actually the first post from the position that took up real issues, and that also addresses what we're actually dealing with here today. There is no reference to the letter of reply sent by the Council of State to the Committee. I also don't think it seems that the figures of the government parties – until Håkon Haugli now – have fully understood the severity of what we are talking about. In 2004, the European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia produced a status report on antisemitism in EU countries. The report presents a clear picture of the situation: violence against Jews in Europe has increased sharply since 2000. I think I would recommend reading this book "Jewish Hat", as it seems a little unclear as to why we are talking about antisemitism and racism and not just able to summarize these terms. This book is written by Trond Berg Eriksen, Håkon Harket and Einhart Lorentz and should really be mandatory if you're going to work seriously on these questions. They conclude that ‘Jewish hatred has again been heard in today’s Europe’. Then we don't have to, as the Council of State did – now fortunately he's changed his mind since he wrote the letter – wonder if there's a growing anti-semitism in this country. That's enough of personal testimony. In addition, we have received the report, which has been commendably ordered by the Municipality of Oslo, which unfortunately supports what we have basically known. What strikes you, in my opinion, is lack of political leadership. When the leader of the Norwegian Jewish Student Association, Anja Savosnick, after much about and dares to stand up in the Norwegian press and tell what she and her friends are exposed to, it is silenced by the Norwegian government – taust. This is where I believe it is a serious failure in this and similar matters. It's, as Lysbakken said, a national minority we're talking about. This is really a minority. There may be 1,300-1,400 Jews in Norwegian society, and there are people today who, in many cases, do not dare stand out as they are, and with their background. That is why I find it very disappointing that there will be no real changes in the light of the debate we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2939	It is a serious matter that we are discussing today. One should really have hoped that it would be unnecessary to discuss Jewish hatred and antisemitism in 2011. It is unfortunately necessary to discuss it, in the light of a story that we all know well, and that has a lot of darkness and tragedy in it. When I hear the council here today, I don't think the government has taken the seriousness of this situation. You're talking about the reality of the opposition, you're talking about all the other groups, and you're trying to angle this over to all the other things that actually matter. It seems to me to be a very strong discharge in relation to the situation. What would have been important would have been for the political board to send out a clear signal that this is completely unacceptable. One way you could have done it was that this case had been unanimously adopted as it stands. Then they had sent a clear signal that this is a completely unacceptable situation, and that some grip was needed to help with this. When I read what parliamentarian leader in SV, big-time representative Bård Vegar Solhjell, says in our country, I actually think he has a much better approach to this than what the council has here today. He says in our country today: «We have believed that antisemitism could be managed in the same breath as Islamophobia and other racist attitudes. Now we have understood that antisemitism must be handled separately." In fact, I fully agree with Mr Solhjell. Unfortunately, the Council of State of the same party is not saying the same thing here today. He says, on the contrary, that you're going to figure this out, you're going to see it in relation to all of the other groups. This then floats out to become something quite different than what it would have been important that it was, and what Solhjell says to our country that it should be. So you say you need more knowledge, that it has to be knowledge-based. It is a good principle, but also here, both Solhjell and Barth Eide say today that they have ‘undervalued anti-Semitic attitudes in Muslim environments’. In addition, it says: ‘We have not seen this ‘new’ version of antisemitism early enough. We haven't taken this seriously enough, probably because we don't want to criticize weak groups in society," said Barth Eide." I would almost suggest that the Lighthouse sit down with a cup of coffee and take a talk with Barth Eide and Board Vegar Solhell. They have a much more nuanced and principled approach to this than what I feel the Council of State has here today. Had what these say, were the starting point, we might have got a good case, a clear signal out of this case, and perhaps the government had then seen this as so important that one had said: Here you have to do something, and you have to do something now. Then you might have voted in favour of the proposal. It is a tragedy that this proposal is not adopted unanimously in the Grand Duchy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2965	I want to start with a comment on something that the representative Holmås was in the house. He drew an important distinction between criticism of Jews and criticism of Israelis. I'm glad he did. It reminds me so far of a different matter than the one being discussed today. I got an answer from the Foreign Minister today to a question that concerns President Abbas, who has recently spent time talking about a new Palestine that will be Jew-free – a clear racist statement that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not distance himself from. I believe that, although there is one thing on the page, it shows that it is important to clarify that one has to be able to distinguish between talking about Israelis and talking about Jews. There are many worrying points in this case. I think it is an important point that bullying today is not such that it only happens in the school yard or on the way home from school. Bullying takes place in full – electronically, through social media, SMS, e-mail and the like. In other words, the bullying has become something the victims bring home. There are many ways that they can't escape. Children and young people no longer have any temptation from bullying. So now you see that bullying, based on ethnicity or religious background, is growing radically. Our proposal may have become even more topical from the report on the Oslo school that most people have quoted, where one sees one in three Jews being bullied several times a month. It requires action. I want to comment on a few suggestions. The Mosaic Religion is among those who most notice the new Jewish hatred. The synagogue has been subjected to terrorist attempts and the security measures around the Jewish institutions are strict. In recent times, the religious community has felt that the police are less visible, present, than before. The religious community estimates that as much as one third of the membership quota goes to security measures alone. They have now submitted an application to the Ministry of Justice for support for the renewal of existing safety equipment and for continuous vigilance at the Jewish institutions. It is a democratic problem when freedom of belief, freedom of movement and freedom of expression are threatened by terrorism and hate crime. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that there is a need for the government to meet the desire of the Mosaic Religious Society to support the renewal of security equipment and a watch at the institutions. It is not just the attitudes in Norway that threaten freedom of belief. Foreign organisations also have an impact on attitudes in some settings in Norway. I want to present the organization Hizb ut-Tahrir. The organisation was established in Jerusalem in 1953 and is working for the creation of a worldwide caliphate in which all converts from Islam are to be executed, only men shall have the highest positions of power, and non-Muslims shall be denied voting rights. Members of the organisation have been sentenced to prison in Denmark for handing out banknotes that encourage the killing of Jews wherever they may be found. Other countries have also banned the organisation. One of the proposals to the Christian People's Party is just about to assess this, and the government should have agreed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e2978	This issue is about attitudes, unfortunately represented in many groups of the population. We need to work together to change these attitudes. We cannot have the freedom of expression, freedom of movement and freedom of belief threatened without the government showing the power of action and the will to change. I would like to repeat the statement made by the Lighthouse that: ‘it is serious if there is a growing antisemitism in Norway’; And... ‘If such a trend is the situation in Norway, targeted measures should be developed.’ But the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Espen Barth Eide, acknowledges the following: ‘We have not seen this ‘new’ version of antisemitism early enough. We have not taken this seriously enough." These are not misspelt quotes. This is not reconstructed. In other words, the government representative Barth Eide acknowledges that this is a problem that the government has not taken seriously enough. However, although repeated reports have been submitted that Jewish children are exposed to significantly more bullying and shenanigans than other children, the government does not show the power of action. Even when there are proposals for ten concrete measures in the Storting, the government is leaning back, staying away and cannot support any of them. And the reason for this was the parliamentary leader of the SV, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, in a debate on Tuesday. He said the following: ‘You know as well as I do that a document 8 proposal like this is not going through. This applies to all such proposals.’» Thus, the SV parliamentary leader reveals the following: No matter how serious a problem is, no matter how important and documented a challenge is, or how good the measures are promoted in this Chamber, the government will not lift a finger if the proposals come from the opposition. You just wait. This matter is largely about the everyday life of Norwegian children. Some teachers can tell about students who are notoriously hanging out Jewish fellow students. One of three Jewish children is bullied, harassed or even killed several times a month. The Christian People's Party thought we should stand together on this matter, but then we feel that in such a serious matter the government awaits and has an arrogant attitude to the proposals of the opposition. Worst of all, the government's arrogance can go down on innocent children's lives and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3012	Racism and, in particular, antisemitism, which we are discussing today, are a major and growing problem, as studies have shown, among other things. the one it's been shown to here in Oslo. But we've also heard stories from students at school like that. the teacher feels that it is quite right and logical, when visiting groups are created between families in the class, that the Palestinian family refuses to invite the Jewish, and that there is something the school puts on an OK stamp. Or stories from the Jewish Museum, which experienced that school classes cancelled visits during the war in Gaza, because they didn't consider it logical to visit a Jewish museum as long as there was war on the Gaza Strip. It's a warning to us as politicians. There are attitudes we have to do something about both school and society in general. I think it is very important to distinguish between the criticism of the State of Israel and what is called anti-Semitism and racism against Jews. That's why I very much agree with what Kjell Ingolf Ropstad said about taking away statements about the dream of the Jew-free states, but it's also important for us politicians to take away from what we now see, that non-Jewish people are deprived of their citizenship and become stateless because of their ethnicity and religion, which is also happening in Israel today. I want to illustrate this with a story. A good friend of mine sat in Falstad concentration camp. He called me about a film about Falstad, to which he was very critical. Then I say, "Why were you – it shows all the horrible Falstad stood for? Then he said, "But then you didn't understand. Because when I was in Falstad, one day I came into the dining room, and then there was a prisoner and singing at a wing and a German jailer played. It's also a picture from Falstad. It's also an image from a concentration camp. If you just show off all the horrible, you don't recognize the terrible when it comes back. Then I'm back to my main score. I think over so long we've stopped communicating history to children, stopped focusing on the knowledge of history in our society, that we've become an arrogant people who don't understand what historical tradition we're actually in. We don't recognize what's really threatening to our civilization, because we've created something that's not about us. We should have recognized all the small signals that make it possible to create that kind of hate – and shut it down from day one. We should have known what all the small comments can lead to if we don't knock it down. But it takes knowledge. Over time, we've weakened our history and weakened our respect for the fact that we're in a historical tradition. We've weakened the knowledge that our civilization is just a tiny ferniss. If we don't fight for that fern every day, which is about civilization, brutality breaks through. That's what the fight is for us as politicians, even when we're going to make rules for how the school works, what you learn, and how we talk to each other. That's why it's important to fight against all kinds of racism, but we've really seen what happens when we accept all the small drops. Racism and stigmatisation of groups – and all that Håkon Haugli spoke about – is important to attack from Day 1. Here we really have a historical tradition that we should have learned from. We should have learned from what such comments lead to. It should not be possible for a Norwegian teacher to say that we cannot visit a Jewish museum that is about Jewish culture because there is war in Gaza. That's not supposed to be true. It is so ignorant that you should have been disqualified from your job as a teacher, because then you really didn't realize it. We must convey our cultural and historical knowledge in such a way that we understand the tradition we stand in. I think we have a great job to do, because we have an arrogance with our own culture and the ideality of our own historical position that makes us not understand what history we're actually in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3025	In conclusion, I just want to say that I think it is sad that this debate was as it was. It's crucial, I think, that we sometimes manage to put aside party-tactical considerations – the need to mark one party over another – and show that we are facing some societal problems, some attitudes, which are, in fact, widely agreed on in this room that we want to fight. There is no doubt – if you read the Committee’s position – that this is the case. There is an overall political environment in Norway that wants to send a signal both to the Jewish population in Norway and to all other parts of our population that we will never accept antisemitism. It's not a problem, if you read the setting, to read it out. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party choose to use this debate to present another picture. You choose to read the other games in the worst possible way. I would like to encourage the representatives of the two parties to think a little bit about it. I think it would be far more valuable for the people involved, that we together managed to send a signal that we actually agree on, than that someone should use all of their forces in this room to make it look like the rest of us are really not concerned about this. I thought that was disappointing. I am determined to continue working on measures to stop both anti-semitism and other forms of racism in Norway. I believe that this debate gives us a good basis, and I have explained some of the things we are doing. It is not the case that the government parties are voting against this because it is a document 8 proposal. To a large extent, we are already implementing, or will implement, a number of the proposals contained in the private proposal. And then there's something that we're factually in disagreement with. But the goal we agree on, and the Storting should be able to send a signal that we take that goal seriously – and believe each other in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3034	I didn't really intend to redraw, but I was forced to do so, because the representative Holmås was able to make this debate also a debate on Islam and a debate on Muslims. As rapporteur-in-Office, I was very clear that it was not my intention. On the contrary: the seriousness of the Jewish hatred should be enough for us to be able to discuss this as the important thing it is. Instead, the representative Holmås is able to compete between the groups on which of them is the most discriminated against. Then he goes so far on the same line as the Secretary-General of the Islamic Council Norway, Mehtab Afsar, who said to our country that Muslim children have much worse than Jewish children in the Oslo schools. It makes it a competition between minorities. It was not my intention as case rapporteur, but it is clear that the representative Holmås is unable to stay too good to make this a competition between minorities. That's not right. If you want to take seriously what's coming out of the study in the Municipality of Oslo, Buddhists are more vulnerable to harassment than Muslims are. I think it's very special -- when we in Stortinget are invited to debate Jewish hatred -- that you can get this to be about everything else than what it's about. But it may be that it's a little bit about bad conscience from SV and the representative Holmås' side, when you have to involve all the other external issues instead of discussing the matter that is important, and which we should be discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3043	First of all, I don't know to what extent it's reasonable that state councils should stand here and evaluate big debates and turn into some kind of over-judgment about how they should be and shouldn't be. The ratio is that we have put forward ten proposals for the Storting in a sincere sense. The setting shows that there is a lot of verbal goodwill. The approach also shows that there is no, on a provisional basis, a particular willingness to adopt what needs to be done in practice. And it's actually not that we're standing here debating to satisfy the government's desire that there should be a total accumulation that expresses one thing or another. This government gets to be so good at being measured by what it does, what it says, and not least what it doesn't say. I have to say I was very excited to hear how the government parties would put on this debate. I gave praise to the representative Haugli, and I do it because I mean it, but I can't stand here and say I am satisfied with the passivity shown by the government. And the government itself has shown to a large extent that it feels that this is something it has not taken care of. Why is it that today, suddenly, the Council of State, Kristin Halvorsen, comes with its proposals? They are not mentioned in the reply to the Committee, but they are mentioned in connection with the fact that there is now a large Jewish delegation here in the country who also asks how the Norwegian authorities address this important issue. I would be more concerned with that than evaluating the Greatness debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3052	Just a short answer to Per-Willy Amundsen. The fact that the issue of Islam is also being discussed in this debate is, in fact, the rapporteurs themselves, and the rapporteur, who have comments to make on this in the position of the case. However, I assume that the rapporteur himself reflected on this when this became part of the matter. To what was said by Hans Olav Syversen: I understand that what the Christian People's Party says is that one could well imagine that the government ended up with the proposals. I understand that; that is why proposals are being made. But I also think, when the debate goes as it goes, that it would be positive if you said that the grips that the government is doing are actually going in the right direction. Because there can't be any disagreement that they are. And when we then, in comments throughout this setting, strongly agree that anti-semitism is not acceptable and is something we have to turn down, I don't understand why this is not accepted in a more all right way. Finally, I just want to read a poem that has been read here before, which shows how important it is what Michael Tetzschner was about, to say something about that this is about making sure that individuals do not get hurt, it's about the universal of human dignity, for which we have to stand up. It's written by the theologian and priest Martin Niemöller. He says in the poem "Legality": ‘First, they took the Communists But I didn't care 'Cause I wasn't a communist. Then they took the trade unionists. But I didn't care Because I wasn't a unionist. Then they took the Jews. But I didn't care Because I wasn't Jewish. Finally they took me. But then there was no one left to care about." I think it's a very straightforward summary of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3084	What is going on after this debate is that several representatives have raised doubts as to whether what we are seeing is an increasing problem, namely that the hatred of the Jews is growing in Norway. However, the Council of State has corrected its own letter, and I think it is good. Perhaps the representatives who have said the same from this pulpit during the debate should do so too, but they get the answer for themselves. At least what I think is a little strange – and that's also a little bit why I drew – is that you use so-called quotations that you attach to other representatives, which are directly wrong – and rejected. Again: The representative Holmås was able to serve a claim that is completely erroneous in relation to the undersigned should have made statements in some context. He should keep doing that too well, because that was not at all correct in relation to what I have said. What I have said is that immigrants from Muslim countries have lower labour participation than other non-Western immigrants. And so that's in reference to a NOU, from the Brochmann committee, where this is a statistical fact. There is nothing else; it has been known for a long time. Nevertheless, it is possible to twist it as the representative Holmås does, in order to place co-representatives in such a bad light as you apply and can. At least I think you should stay too good. But again: I record that in this debate one is more concerned with involving external things, other minority groups, and turning this into a debate on everything else than it should be on the part of the government parties. It is not even certain, at least for several representatives from the government parties, whether or not a growing problem is being observed in Norway with regard to Jew hatred. It is left after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3093	The representative Heikki Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3096	I had hoped that my post would be my last, but I find it difficult to let it remain such an impression that it leaves Per-Willy Amundsen. I'm just taking to heart the clarification of his statement, but I mean what I'm saying is, that when the representative Amundsen uses it, that someone is from Muslim countries, as an argument in a debate, then it's a fundamental fact that he's starting to touch things that are not good. That's what's my whole point, and that's what's the whole point of the poem I read instead. Any kind of interrelationship between ethnicity and religion – to accept that you can use it as an argument in contexts about this – does not belong anywhere. We're going to be clear against all forms of racism, and we're going to put pressure where the need is greater, and I see that the Council of State has said it will.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3101	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 5001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3117	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3126	The requirement for equal pay for women and men has long traditions. The first demands for equal pay in industry were made by female workers in the 1880s and 1890s. It would be 80 years for the LO and Norwegian Employers' Association to enter into a framework agreement on equal pay between women and men in 1961. In 1947, the Ministry of Social Affairs took the initiative to monitor women’s and men’s wages, and it showed, among other things, that they were able to do so. that it was difficult to defend the pay gap between 20 and 40 pst. depending on family circumstances and depending on the burden of living. In 1949, the Equal pay Commission was set up, with a mandate to both give an overview of women’s wages and salaries in the labour market and discuss how inequalities could be corrected. In 1951, the ILO Convention on Equal Pay for Women and Male Workers was adopted for work of equal value, and the majority of the Committee voted in favour of ratification from 1958. Finally, in the EU, the principle of equal pay was incorporated into Article 119 of the Treaty of Rome. The reason was to prevent distortions of competition. With the long story, and the tradition of fighting for equal pay, I'm glad that the proposers are concerned with what is a struggle for the movement of workers, but we disagree with the medicine they prescribe. The Equality Act provides in Section 5 that women and men in the same undertaking should have equal pay for equal work and work of equal value. The remuneration shall be determined in the same way for both women and men and shall apply irrespective of whether the work belongs to different trades or whether the remuneration is regulated in different collective agreements. The value of the work shall be determined on the basis of an overall assessment focusing on the competences necessary to carry out the work and other relevant factors, such as: effort, responsibilities and working conditions. So pay is not a relevant factor. When the Progress Party wants to intervene politically in the determination of wages, it is attacking one of the foundations of the Norwegian social model. An organised working life with a strong element of central negotiations is one of the most important contributions to a low level of conflict, high employment and relatively small income differences. Wages and salaries are the responsibility of the parties, as is also initially shown in the context of the proposal. In the state tariff area, women have an average of 94 pst. of men's statutory wages and salaries. Adjusted for age, education, work experience, seniority and working time, women have 98–99 pst. of men's statutory wages and salaries. The parties to the State tariff area have good processes to reach an agreement on measures to balance the pay gap between women and men, and we assume that the same is true in the other areas of public sector negotiation. Of course, we also expect the private sector to follow up on its own. There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which supports the position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3145	As I said, this is a proposal made by the Progress Party to ensure a wage rise in low pay, focusing on the public sector educational groups. We think this is a very important matter. I find here that the case-speaker, who is going through this, is disunity in medicine, but I can't see that the rest – only the Progress Party – has some suggestions and comes up with some alternative medicine for how to solve this. This is a matter which we think is important and which we think should be debated. Of course, it is quite right that the pay settlement is initially the responsibility of the parties, but here we believe that it is possible that the government will come and help the parties so that one can get anywhere in this matter. We also believe that the government party created great expectations in the run-up to the 2009 elections, before the wage resolution in spring 2010, that something would happen – without it being followed up by concrete action. But in 2009, there was a campaign, and then it made a sense that something was going to happen, but it didn't. As the case spokesman also said, the Progress Party stands alone with a proposal, but in the comments we are not alone. That's where we stand with the Christian People's Party. We have said that one of the measures for effective follow-up to equal pay is an equal pay pot. But we realize that by this crossroads we don't get multiples for the proposal we're going to make. We still think it is important that we have taken this matter up, and we will continue to consider taking this matter up to a new debate. Finally, I would like to make the proposal that is attached here, and I would also like to read the proposal: ‘The size calls on the government in the extension of the salary line in 2011 to implement measures that ensure a pay gap for the low-wage professions with a focus on the public sector educational groups and as a result of ensuring that municipalities are fully compensated for such a wage increase.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3163	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he mentioned and referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3166	The right considers the wage settlement to be the responsibility of the parties and that the actors in the different tariff areas themselves must be given the opportunity to find solutions to pay issues. We have previously proposed a pool of skills for public sector education groups, but at the same time we refer to ‘the tradition of the parties for good processes to reach an agreement, both in the area of balancing wage differences and in other areas’. In other words, we agree with what the Council of State writes in its reply to the Committee, that we do not want wage fixing through representational proposals in Stortinget. It might have been interesting to get the price tag on this too, but then we might have to hold on for a while before we got the final conclusion. So here I think, unfortunately, I have to say that we cannot support the line on which the Progress Party has committed itself. We fully believe that the parties must take this responsibility. The letter of reply to the Council of State also shows that if one takes into account seniority, age, etc. in the public sector, the difference between man’s wages and women’s wages and salaries is approx. 1-2 pst., and the parties continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3173	It is amazing that the Progress Party has suddenly become heavily involved in equality and equal pay. It's very interesting if you look at the concepts of ‘equal pay’ and ‘equal pay’ in the programme of the Progress Party for this major period. Then you will find that the word ‘equal pay’ does not exist and that the word ‘equal pay’ exists in one place in the programme, and that it is about equality in support of public and private kindergartens. So let's hope that this is a kind of new beginning for the Progress Party. But I see that they have a piece to go, because they haven't quite understood how things work. So when we've gone to elections and said that we want to fight for equal pay between women and men in Norway, it's just about getting a pay gap in the public sector and about the levels of pay in the public sector. If we're going to do that, we're going to be dependent on the parties agreeing. It is particularly important that the trade unions and trade unions agree that this is something you have to do in the years to come, otherwise you won't get anywhere. How else does Gjermund Hagesett believe that it would be, if we in the industrial sector say that there has been an increase in the municipal population that is higher than what we have received in the industry? We'll have compensated for this the following year, they say. That's how the social partners negotiate, and that's how it works. If we're going to do something about this, we're going to have to agree between the parties. If we come to an agreement between the parties, the government has said it is willing to participate and make sure to achieve such a paylift. One part of equal pay has been perceived to be about the difference in pay levels between public and private. The second part of the work for equal pay, said the Equal pay Commission, with Anne Enger at the head, is about the discrimination that occurs every time a woman has children. Then women sink in the stern. The government has also delivered. So, contrary to what the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted, we have delivered in relation to what is about equality between women and men in parenthood. We believe that more equality in responsibility for children, over time will lead to more equality in housework, more equality in the distribution of efforts between women and men, more recognition that hiring a young woman or a young man will lead to equal absences and equal care for the children, and the same men and women will be more equal in terms of how they are viewed in the individual workplace. The Right Party and the Advance Party have been inconceivable against this. They have said that this part of the equal pay struggle we are not at all concerned with. Luckily, the rest of the Stortinget, from the Christian People's Party to the SV, stands here on a sensible and correct policy, and then we get to hope that the Right Party and the Advance Party will never get an impact on that part of their policy. The second part of what is about different pay between women and men is part of the other things that are important to address, namely that women work much more in part-time jobs; they do not get full-time jobs. It's about much more means, isn't it? Some of this leads to women, in order to have a full-time job, much more jobs in temporary contracts. This is as of today's date as it works in public. We have said from the government that we want a real boost for people to have full - time jobs instead. We want to make sure that public wages are good, and make sure that people who work in public have real jobs. This requires a joint effort on our part. If it had been up to the right side, it had become much more temporary work. Then there had been more temporary work both in public and elsewhere, both for women and for men, but we see that there is a much larger proportion of women working in the kind of temporary jobs in the public sector. Here we go to the elections with an employer guarantee in thirteen points – say very clearly from: We want to work; where there are SVs selected and SVs get power in the municipalities, we want to work for a greater degree of full-time jobs. We're going to work for tournaments that ensure that people get the opportunity to stand in full-time positions. We want to work against temporary employment, against social dumping and for real work for equal pay. I believe that systematic work in this way, both in relation to family policy, in relation to public employment policy and cooperation with the trade and social partners on equal pay is what is going on – not this proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3206	This matter is essentially about equal pay. It's a fight that's been fought for over 100 years. For the same time, the matter has been researched, investigated, discussed and debated. Still, it's a lot of way to go to get equal pay for equal education and equal work. This matter is about everyone getting a payoff for the education they have taken. It is about giving everyone the opportunity to support themselves and to ensure economic security for themselves. Equal pay is about recruitment to professions that are important for the welfare of Norway. But most of all, equal pay is about justice. In the case of wage negotiations and equal pay pots, government policy is characterised by good intentions. It's great with good intentions and good will. The government should be commended for promoting an equal pay report for the Storting, but it is actually only concrete action that leads us to the goal. Therefore, I do not have the power to do something concrete that actually brings us closer to the objectives of equal pay and equal opportunities. As we refer to in the suspension, the Committee on Gender Equality and Discrimination stated in the hearing organised in connection with the treatment of the equal pay report by the Stortinge, that the government must contribute fresh funds to women-dominated professions in the public sector and that the parties must commit themselves to prioritizing this group in the future. The Christian People's Party fully agrees with this. In our society, it is largely the family that is the foundation. Therefore, it is essential that the labour market be adapted to family life and not the other way around. The family must be at the centre to ensure safe growth for the smallest and most vulnerable. It should not come to that point that the young people, the time spent with young people and leavers are an obstacle to equal pay and a good working life. We know that many women become dependent on income as a consequence of births and leave. It's a problem. This problem is not solved by women discontinuing or discontinuing leave. No, the solution must be in the workplace. Part of the solution may be found in the majority proposal of the Equal Pay Commission that workers in parental leave should be entitled to average wage growth. The Christian People's Party believes the fair thing would be that everyone got to participate in the wage development that happens at their workplace while they're on leave. Such an automatic right to pay adjustment can be an important instrument to balance the negative pay effects of parental leave. If we ensure that workers do not suffer from impaired pay and working conditions as a result of taking parental leave, we have come a little further on the road to equal pay. In St.meld. No 70 for 1991-1992, the government of Harlem Brundtland wrote that the main unresolved problems were equal pay and equal care. The Communication stated that the main work had to be done at the workplace and through the social partners and their organisations. The reason why I mention this is that it supports whether the Christian People's Party is so busy in this area. It is not with changes in family life that equal pay challenges are to be solved. Changes in the labour force are the most important. There are structures in society that prevent gender equality. It is crucial for Norwegian families that employers and society in general facilitate a good family life, and that it is possible to combine careers, children and families in a good way. Unfortunately, despite considerable attention over time, equal pay challenges are still high, and we still have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3229	Equal pay is important for the government, but wages and salaries are the responsibility of the parties. This is also clarified when the government meets the social partners. I'm glad that the majority in this Chamber will confirm it in the vote. It is also important in terms of wages and salaries that competitive industries lay the framework for wage-setting. In the 2010 main pricing plan, we saw that different tariff areas found room for equal pay provision. The provisions were within a sound financial framework. Also in the state sector, where I have a responsibility, we prioritised equal pay. Although in the country, unlike in other tariff areas, there are not large women-dominated job categories, we were able to find solutions and give equal pay priority. In the state, women and men work in the same job categories. This presents challenges in formulating equal pay policies. Another challenge is that not enough women are applying for higher case management positions or for leadership positions. In executive positions in the state it is approx. one third of women and two thirds of men. When measuring women's share of men's wages, statistics are affected by these structural conditions. In the state tariff area, we have more instruments we can use. In 2010, we gave equal pay and low pay supplements to the general supplements. We had key adjustments, where women-dominated educational groups were prioritised, and in the local negotiations the parties agreed on strict leads to what the local negotiations would be used to meet precisely the women's groups. The results of the main compilation of tariffs in the country in 2010 are shown in the statistics collected on 1 October 2010. It shows that women receive an average of 94 pst. of men's statutory wages and salaries. If you correct for known variables, such as age, education, work experience, longevity and working time, women have up to 99 pst. of men's statutory wages and salaries. We see that from 1 October 2009 to 1 October 2010, the difference in pay between women and men is reduced by a total of 16 pst. So something has happened. Wages and salaries in 2010 helped to redeploy more than 200 million. kr for women. This has helped to reduce the gender pay gap in the State tariff area. When the main tariff settlement in 2010 was sent to the vote of the main associations, some 90 pst said. of the members, yes to the negotiated result. That shows that we're successful. The main tariff measures helped to balance the pay gap between women and men. In the mid-term review in 2011, the parties agreed to continue the general additions and the local negotiations. The general supplements this year have also had an equal pay and low pay profile, and the equal pay agreed in 2010 also applies to the local negotiations to be held in 2011. Also in the KS, Spekter and Oslo Municipality there was a special focus on equal pay in the main tariff settlement in 2010. The parties have shown that they are able to find solutions to the pay gap between women and men within a sound financial framework. It's about prioritizing. When the proposers refer to the so-called women-dominated low-wage professions, these are mainly groups belonging to the municipal sector, where the employer is represented either by the KS or the Oslo municipality. But it's my view and the government's view that the parties in the different tariff areas themselves need to find solutions to all pay issues. We therefore assume that the parties will continue to find solutions, including: equal pay issues also in the coming state settlement. However, it is important to focus on equal pay issues also on full-time and part-time issues, to have good welfare arrangements, and not least to focus on education and career choices. The fact that we have such a sex-segregated labour market in Norway contributes to creating the gender pay challenges we face, and it is therefore important that we encourage girls to make untraditional career choices. It will help balance pay differentials.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3254	Governments state that equal pay is important for the government, but that pay is the responsibility of the parties. Now, in front of the 2009 election campaign, the government party was not so clear about shifting this responsibility to the parties, so it was possible to create an impression – and great expectations – that this was something that the government was going to sort out, one should secure equal pay in Norway. So if the government is very busy with this, then my question is: What will the government and the government do concretely – what initiative will one take – to ensure equal pay for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3259	The government is concerned with equal pay, but we believe that the parties are the best ones to find good solutions to that, and that the parties have actually proven that they can do through the last set of tariffs. Only in the state sector were we able to redeploy more than 200 million. kr, where we prioritised women-dominated groups. Then it's important for the government to hold on to the fact that equal pay is not just solved through tariff negotiations. It is important that we have good welfare arrangements. It is important that we motivate more men to take care leave, as we have just done by making a proposal in the Storting where we extend parental leave and help more fathers take leave. And, as I said in my post, I think it's very important that we still focus on more women entering more human-dominated professions. There will be important contributions to equalising the pay gap between women and men across the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3266	I said in my post that we know that many women are going to be dependent on income as a consequence of births and leave, and the solution is not that women stop giving birth or stop taking leave. The solution lies in the labour market, so part of the solution can be found in the majority of the Equal pay Commission's proposal that workers in parental leave should be entitled to average wage growth. Does the Council agree with this majority proposal, and what can the government do to ensure that workers in parental leave are entitled to average wage growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3271	I am skeptical that there should be an automatic way of getting pay orders; it must be part of the ordinary course of negotiations. When you come back, it would be natural to assess your position on the basis of the normal wage negotiations that have been in the company's tariff range in the sector in which the employee is employed. But what we see — and which is important in terms of equal pay — is that there are a good deal of structural changes now that are very positive for women. In the state, 10 pst ends. by all workers in one year. The starting men start in the same pay category as the ending men, while women start in much higher pay categories. It helps to reduce significantly the gap between women’s wages and men’s wages, and I think it is important that we focus on this type of action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3278	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 5002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3296	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3305	We have discussed this proposal in the Municipal Committee in a relatively short way. The background is simple: this was a proposal made by the representatives in the context of the debate on the Data Storage Directive. The comments made by the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and the Right refer initially to the agreement concluded between the Workers' Party and the Right on how the Data Storage Directive and some data protection issues will be further addressed on that occasion. We in the other parties essentially took on two things. One was that much of what appeared in the proposal and the debate related to it was taken in the context of the debate on the Data Storage Directive. The second was that we considered the proposals that were made – which were not part of the agreement between the Labour Party and the Right, which we are going to fully deal with in the Stortinget at a later stage – as a good input to the debate that is coming, input from the opposition to the work that is now being done by the government on a roll-out on privacy. A good part of the proposals that lie here is promoted by the minority, from the Progress Party and the Right. From the rest of the parties, we have chosen to look at the debate on this matter and the concrete recordings and proposals that are coming, as input to the big message that we will discuss later. During this debate, we are going to listen to the recordings that the Right and the Progress Party make in the proposals, listen to the arguments in this regard, and also show that we are going to have a broad debate on this later on in connection with the notified privacy notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3314	In recent years, privacy has been widely debated in Norway. On 4 April, Stortinget held a wide-ranging debate on the implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive, with both the minority and the majority focusing on the best possible protection of privacy. The case rapporteur made a good point; I can join everything he said. The proposal we are discussing today points to a number of areas of society where there is reason to be concerned with people's right to privacy, transparency and ownership of personal data. The proposal was promoted before Stortinget dealt with the Data Storage Directive, and many of the issues addressed were therefore addressed in the negotiations and the agreement concluded between the Workers' Party and the Right. In the agreement, we focused on an overall approach to privacy, and on finding balanced solutions, solutions that balance the principle of the right to privacy with society’s need for regulation. The government has notified a major privacy announcement. I'm glad. It is important that the Stortinget has the opportunity to discuss privacy in general. Different factors, in particular technological developments, challenge privacy. Storage of personal data, both for private operators and for the public, is becoming increasingly easier – a large amount of data can be stored, and it is often cheaper and easier to keep the data stored than to delete it. It may also be close to using data stored for one purpose for another. It is a responsibility of the authorities to ensure the necessary counterweight to this development through legislation that imposes erasure and requires a solid justification for all the storage of personal data by ensuring the individual right to know what is stored through supervision. If we are to ensure the privacy of people, the public must take an active responsibility. At the same time, the state is also an actor. It goes without saying that the state itself must also be careful about collecting, storing and compiling personal data. With regard to the specific content of the original proposals of the individual representatives from the Right, something is already part of today's legislation, other is current practice. In addition, it has been announced that several of the proposals will be discussed in the Storing Communication. I will therefore carefully comment on a few of the proposals promoted by the Progress Party and the Right, and which will be voted on here today. In the case of tax lists, there is something Storting has discussed several times. In January the Ministry of Finance sent out a proposal for tightening the way tax lists are published. The proposal will limit the commercial use of tax lists. It will be an important contribution to strengthening privacy. Proposal No. 2 is in line with current practice. It appears from the State Council's reply to the Committee that toll companies do not provide access information to the equality authorities and that the government will consider limiting the possibilities for such transparency. I would like to welcome such an assessment, but at the same time I would like to stress that organised crime and a significant black economy are a major problem across Europe. Finally, I would like to comment on a general issue that I believe we need to come back to. At first sight, it makes sense to log or log out who collects information from public registers. But is it not a paradox that the desire to strengthen data protection calls for the establishment of a number of new registers of personal data? To give an example, if the public is to register all applicants for Kjell Inge Smokes and Jens Stoltenberg's tax information, as the Right Party and the Advance Party wish, a new personal data register will be established at the same time – a list of whom and when and why. It's not unproblematic. Could it not be that the information contained in this new log is as sensitive as that contained in the original tax lists? And isn't it the case that two public registers double the risk of data being diverted? And how to log who reads the log – do you see a third register, the log of the log? It seems a convenient solution to ensure that everyone who retrieves personal data from public registers is recorded. It's a little bit of a thoughtful suggestion. In my view, you risk the very opposite of what is intention, a weakening of privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3340	I point out that the Committee has taken note of the Council of State's assessment and a joint committee is pleased that a communication on privacy will be made to the European Parliament. A Joint Committee asks the Council of State to consider the measures put forward in this proposal as input in areas that a Member State wishes to highlight in the message. I want to wait for the debate until we get the message, and see no reason to say so much more now, except that I take up the proposals that the Progress Party has with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3347	The representative Åge Starheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3350	It is right, as pointed out by previous speakers, that we have a lively debate on privacy issues. In particular, we had a major and wide-ranging debate on the implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive. The problem with these debates is that they always get ahead of us breaking a new barrier. And even if you look back, you might sum up saying that what came out of the debates is that you promise yourself that this is about the last time you're going to move to the outside of what might be objectionable from a data protection question, and then go into the new solution. In this way, it can be said that the debates are constantly following technological developments, and that the debates in their conclusion often focus on spreading the truth about a misguided technological development – and that we have strong drivers who will operate in and on efficient systems, but who have the impression that it exposes the individual to the risk of information being diverted. It is the individual who has to bear the burden of system failure, and when the systems fail, we hear that it is not really the technical of those who have failed, but the human by them, and that it was humans like slumped and forgotten memory sticks or other storage media, in peril or by direct disloyalty. You might also say, well, if there's a human failure, it's actually also a system failure, because it's the system that allows the information to be collected. I will just give a little summary of the initiative of the proposers, taking into account how far we have come in today's debate. But the pillar is that whoever is mentioned and who is registered should have maximum control and ownership of his own information. It is stated in the Basic Act on Privacy. The information shall then be limited to the purpose for which it was obtained and the information in question shall be minimal in serving its purpose. Then there shall be security around the storage of the information. We have also been concerned about proposals that were debated by the representative, Mr Haugli, proposals that I admit can and should be problematic, if we do not choose the means to get paradoxes of the kind that the representative had in mind, which perhaps suggests that one can manage without publication in the media at all, i.e. in electronic media. But there's a discussion we get to come back to. In addition, I have also noticed that many people are now looking forward to the announced announcement of privacy protection, which, according to what I understand, will rely to a large extent on the Privacy Commission's position that allowed for a good job to be done, and which was at least able to revitalise the debate. I want to draw attention to the fact that as we discuss, technological developments continue. With regard to these proposals, I can then announce a day-fresh problem, and it is linked to the so-called EDAG project, i.e. Electronic Dialogue with Employers, which is a joint project launched by the country's four largest anchors and users of information, about individuals in society and businesses. These are the SSB, Nav, Brønnøsund registers and the Skatetaten in the driver’s seat. The tool they are using is the uploading to Altinn. They work for three purposes: first, to simplify and save, to have better services — better problem solving — and to reduce resource use. Time doesn't allow us to present the issues more in detail than this, but I think the Council of State might take it along that while we are debating elected people, we have a rather powerful technocratic bureaucracy that doesn't take it so carefully with privacy considerations – and then these proposals flood into us. It would have been excellent if the Council of State had included it in her assessment when she promoted the privacy notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3367	When our right to privacy is challenged, each intervention and action is often justified by the desire for something good, whether it is to combat and solve crime, give us greater security in everyday life, or to ensure that we are given the rights we are entitled to. But in sum, these interventions could threaten our freedom. This debate has, like what the Progress Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have said in their joint remark, a mark of indulgence policy. The centre party said when we dealt with the Data Storage Directive, that it was the biggest surveillance intervention in Norway's history. We're holding on to it. It is important to clarify that a separate privacy notice is not something that has been achieved in the negotiations with the Workers' Party on the data storage issue, but there is a message that the government would present independently of that debate, because there is a need for an overall review of privacy. The Central Party is looking forward to receiving the big message on privacy for Stortinget, and believes it is important to keep Benjamin Franklin's words in mind when drafting the message: «Whoever is willing to sacrifice his freedom for a time in security deserves neither freedom nor security.» Freedom and the right to privacy are a little too often forgotten when you see opportunities to create orderly and secure societies through technology. Technology must be used in a way that promotes freedom – not in a way that restricts it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3383	Privacy is under pressure and new technologies allow for increased control, registration and monitoring. New technology always offers new opportunities, but it is policy's role to limit technology when there are conflicts of interest here, against privacy. I am sceptical and critical of the ever more extensive monitoring, registration and control. The more information is stored, the more opportunities it offers for misuse and information leakage. What guarantees do we have that information is not misused? The emergence of the information society requires that we have a clear and principled view of this. What is human worth? What are the rights of individual citizens? How do we relate to an information flow that increasingly challenges the individual's right to privacy? This spring, privacy has been pressed several times. The Data Storage Directive is one example that can be drawn up, and the changes in laws supported by large parts of the Right and the entire Workers' Party are rooted in some of our fundamental privacy principles. We are still faced with similar issues. New issues will emerge, and in many cases there will be good reasons to introduce stricter controls. Consideration must always be weighed, but if we do not have a conscious relationship with privacy principles, we will almost continue to sidestep the fundamental protection of privacy. Resistance to individual items may be interpreted by some as spicy. It's not. That's the sum of things that make us gradually and almost inconspicuously slip in the wrong direction. The sum of good intentions can make a go in a direction no one really wants and into a society where human dignity is violated. To the Right's proposal, I would like to say that I think many of them are good and clearly proposals on which the Christian People's Party will support – in particular the proposals on strengthening the protection of personal data, better logging of the person obtaining personal data, strengthening the individual's right of access to the log related to his or her person. I have noticed that the government wants to invite Stortinget to a comprehensive and comprehensive discussion of privacy issues, and that at the same time it is announced that there will be a separate announcement to the Stortinget on privacy. Such a message is particularly important now that several major issues that have weakened privacy have been adopted in Stortinget. I would therefore like to welcome both the discussion and the communication, and I also expect the proposals currently being debated to be highlighted in this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3398	This case clearly shows the extent of privacy. Privacy is cross-sectoral and the proposal ranges from data protection measures in the health sector through the publication of data on social protection data. Almost no matter what we do, we leave personal data that is processed in different contexts. We pay with different electronic means of payment in public transport, in the bombing and in the store. We use mobile phones and computers many times, in different places, in one day. We visit doctors and dentists, we borrow books from the library, and we use public services. And not least, we are major consumers of social media, we update our status and check in on Facebook, we twitter and blog about the most intimate details of our lives. Everywhere we leave traces showing where we were, when we were there, and what we did. As the proposers, I am also concerned that it should not be collected and stored more information than is actually necessary, that the information is adequately secured and that it is not misused or made available to outsiders. I welcome the initiative of the proposers, so that we get this opportunity for a wide-ranging debate on privacy. As freedom of expression and legal certainty, privacy is an ideal interest – difficult to measure in crowns and ears. However, most people agree that privacy is important in a legal state and that there must be limits to how far into the private sphere of individuals both public authorities and private enterprises can go. Nevertheless, privacy must be weighed against other interests. The importance of efficiency, road safety, good health and crime prevention, in order to mention something, must be weighed against the interests of citizens' privacy and privacy as well as society's desire for a limited level of control and surveillance. In order to ensure the diversity of societal interests, it is necessary to find solutions that least interfere with the personal sphere of interest of citizens. We must maintain one social interest without sacrificing another. At the same time, and more and more frequently, proposals are made for logging the access and retrieval of personal data in different personal registers. The log shall identify unsolicited or unauthorised access to information and be highlighted as a privacy promotion. The logging of incidents in the personal register is not primarily a privacy measure but a security measure. It is a compensatory measure in situations where access control has not worked satisfactorily. Privacy is an important rule of law. We must work for good privacy and privacy-friendly solutions in both private and public businesses. In relation to logging, this means that priority must be given to developing good systems to prevent unauthorised access to personal data. We need to recognise that errors can happen, and that some people can abuse their legitimate access to information to search for information they do not need. This is a log tool that can help to protect the interests of data subjects when errors are corrected. Another data protection solution may be that until the data subject receives a copy of the personal data, which is provided to the external data subject. This has been the right in the context of credit information for many years. At the same time, we need to think carefully before imposing the obligation to copy information from all public registers, because it can quickly become a large amount of information for data subjects to deal with. With regard to the specific obligation to copy the tax lists, this has recently been assessed in connection with a law that I understood was dealt with in this Chamber only a few days ago. The conclusion is that no warning obligation should be attached to the use of public access rights. I record that the proposers are concerned with the privacy of children and young people. That's good. Proposals want the exchange of information between institutions responsible for children, such as kindergarten and school, to take place after the consent of the representatives. Fortunately, this is the general rule already. Information on children in kindergarten cannot be transferred to school without the obligation of professional secrecy being lifted. The government is working on a privacy notice to the Stortninget. The notification shall be a broad follow-up to the Commission's report and shall indicate the government's choice and priorities in the field of privacy in the form of common leads for data protection work in different sectors. I am pleased to present this message to the next year, and will take with me the recordings that have been made in connection with the proposal, and carefully evaluate them in our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3421	No one has asked for the word in reply. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 5002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3439	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3455	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. It is further proposed that up to 10 minutes be allocated to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies by the main speakers of each group and up to five lines with replies by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3468	It is a pleasure for me to present the position of the Business Committee on the agricultural settlement of the year. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for good cooperation, so that we could properly handle the settlement here in Stortingen. The framework of the arrangement is 1420 million. kr, which is financed by SEK 860 million. SEK in increased target price and SEK 365 million. kr in grants from the State budget. The remainder of the coverage has been transferred from 2010 onwards and increased value of the agricultural deduction. One important element of this year’s settlement is that the government proposes to remove the food production fee in the 2012 government budget. It will provide a tax relief of 280 million. kr for Norwegian agricultural products with effect from 1 January, which is the basis for the agreement of the parties on target price increases from the same date. But for industry, this means a total tax return of over 600 million. kr. And I have to say that I am a little surprised that we have not heard more cheers from either industry or the opposition that this strange fee on food production is now falling away. The agreement also requires that agriculture now has to pay a full membership fee to the population, i.e. the termination of co-financing through the agreement. It is compensated for by the corresponding revenue-generating measures under the agreement and by the increase in the agricultural deduction within a proceeds framework of approximately 120 million. kr. It is worth noting that non-agricultural forest users do not benefit from this, and there is therefore a consensus to increase the forestry and bioenergy reserve over the agricultural development fund as a partial compensation. This agreement continues the stepping-up of opportunities for increased profitability in agriculture as started in 2006. The strong district profile of last year’s settlement is continued but not further reinforced. Grain production is a priority in this settlement, in order to underpin the need for food and feed grain to be produced on the best areas of ‘historically good grain settlement’, which the head of Eastfold Bondelag stated at the time of the agreement. Yes, it is worth noting that increased cereal production is stimulated by an increase in the area grant, compensation is paid for increases in fertiliser prices, an increase in the target price for food and feed grain, an increase in the price write-down subsidy and an increase in the allocation of local cargo subsidies for feed. It is also agreed to introduce a subsidy for the stockpiling of cereal seed. That's very good. The channelling policy is an important mechanism to ensure that food and feed grain is produced on the best areas, and milk and meat produced in the districts. Then we get the most out of our total resources. And when the grazing industry becomes a priority, as we have done since 2006, we also get to maintain the cultural landscape as an effect of food production. I think this is a very wise step in our agricultural policy to ensure that we have production and housing across the country. On the basis of agriculture, we have a decentralised housing and employment structure, and I believe that we have done well in Norway. And yet, too many uses are empty, and in my view, we have too low land productivity on part of our area. There's a lot to do here. So, of course, if we're to maintain an agriculture all over the country, we have to realize that we need to have a varied usage structure, adapted to the different framework conditions that nature and geography provide. Nor will we succeed without the willingness to use budgetary resources as well as the need for agriculture to take a significant share of the income from the market. If we are to succeed in maintaining self-sufficiency as a growing population, we must take advantage of all the opportunities we have, and we must have robust customs protection. Here, perhaps, we are at one of the most demanding agricultural policy balances. Farmers must have sound profitability in their productions, while at the same time maintaining commodity prices at a level that the food industry can defend, and we are dependent on importing a number of inputs. We also have a duty on duty-free and quota-free access to the Norwegian market for all products from countries on the UN MUL list, which was launched from 1 July 2002. There are now 64 countries that can export all their agricultural products to Norway without customs duties. These imports have been slowly increasing in recent years. As an example, it is interesting to mention our imports of beef from Swaziland. The government opened there for an import quota of 500 tonnes of beef a few years ago. Here there is now a positive development going on, which is very important to small farmers in Swaziland, which I have registered myself during a visit. As far as the agricultural economy is concerned, the Labour Party believes that the challenges are greatest in milk production. Here also comes the heaviest investment needs. The way in which production will be organised will vary from use to use and from area to area. Collaborations can be an excellent way to organise production in too many, mainly where there is little use, while in other areas it is preferable to expand on the basis of additional purchases and renting of milk quotas. But this will vary a lot. It is important that the user himself makes these adjustments on the basis of his own competence, economics and local opportunities. I'm not in favour of us being politicians driving and musing for one way or another to organize production, but it's important that we, as politicians, set things right, so that the farmer can take the right choices from his own point of view. The Committee has drawn up a note on the situation in beef and veal production and underlines the need to continue to stimulate suckler cows. Ammeku has become an important element of Norwegian livestock farming and meets the need for grazing. It is a good alternative to sheep in predatory areas, while the open cultural landscape is also positive for maintaining biodiversity. Otherwise, it's hard to talk about grazing without addressing the challenges we have with predators in some of the grazing areas. Although this is a matter for another committee, it has so much to do with the opportunities to engage in industry in some districts. I very much hope that the efforts now being made at the parliamentary level must lead to a broad settlement, a settlement which, at my discretion, should lead to the establishment of more efficient predatory management. Then, of course, grazing has to be done to avoid grazing livestock being exposed to predators to a greater extent than is necessary. The grant for organised grazing has also been increased in this agreement. As far as the agricultural negotiations themselves as the negotiating institute are concerned, I am pleased to note that there is now a broad majority in this house who are calling about this, and that it is now only the Progress Party who opposes the agricultural agreement. The right hand party and the Progress Party have, in a joint note, called for caution by taking too much of the costs of agricultural settlement into account. This is a reason to notice. Interestingly, the two parties that have worked for a stronger market orientation of the economy are all of a sudden so sceptical that the market is going to work. But I expect that this is where the two parties are flagging what had to happen at any government takeover, which is a significant cut in the agreement, because I don't think the farmer should assume that the prudence of the two parties in terms of price is compensated by the corresponding increase in budget support. The two parties' budget proposals do not bear witness to this. I therefore believe it is essential for agriculture and for the settlement in this country that the red-green government has a very long working time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3501	The Labour Party decided at its national meeting that fur farming should be discontinued. So my question to the representative is: will the Workers' Party include a requirement in the agricultural notice that the fur industry be closed, and what price has been set on the conversion of the industry, if you put it down?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3506	The working party has not appreciated the job to be done. The ratio of fur animals is assumed to be balanced when the agricultural message is submitted. The representative will then see what position the Workers' Party has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3511	Media renders daily statements from the government's inner life. The leader of the centre party, Liv Signe Navarsete, demands a veto on the agricultural notification. Workers’ party representative and head of the Business Committee, Terje Lien Aasland, are today quoted in the Nations as being ‘complicated’. My question is: can the Workers' Party now guarantee that the agricultural notification will be sent to Stortinget to the autumn, as promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3518	The working party assumes that the notification will be submitted until the harvest, as announced. Something else I don't have to comment on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3523	I want to go back to the end of the representative's posts. He referred to a comment from the Progress Party and the Right and asked questions about how two batches which are market economy trailers could be negative to withdraw part of the agricultural agreement at increased prices. When I went to school in my time, we learned that a price between supply and demand was fixed in a market economy. In the agricultural negotiations, there are two parties negotiating on target prices. That means that someone's taking it out in price. Does the representative agree that this is not a market economy, but so close to a planned economy that can actually come?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3532	That party to the agricultural negotiations is the target price, and it is achieved if the industry achieves the prices in the market they have foreseen in the agreement. That is the consequence of the target price setting. As the representative may know, it is not always possible to achieve the target price in the market agreed in the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3537	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3541	The party regards self-employed farmers as a support bar for the creation of value and nutrition in many places in the country. We want the farmer to have development opportunities in the future. A robust agricultural industry contributes to achieving important objectives of continued significant Norwegian food production, differentiated housing and beautiful cultural landscapes. We believe that agriculture, like, for example. the tourism industry and the fishing industry are of great importance in ensuring positive development in many communities. We record that the agricultural conversion continues. It is estimated that 36 000 farms with housing are empty, many of them are in decline. Conversion to larger and more efficient units is important and necessary to ensure that the agricultural industry becomes more forward-looking and less dependent on transfers, and we believe that agricultural policy should better facilitate this. In principle, it is a concern that individual industries negotiate their own framework conditions directly with the State and conclude agreements with major economic consequences outside the ordinary budgetary procedure. The annual decisions on the framework conditions for agriculture are not a pay bill but a determination of the possibilities for generating income. The significant deviations between the promised agricultural income development in the individual settlements and the achieved development show that the basis of calculation used for the settlement is rather thin. The Progress Party wants farmers, as other traders, to be responsible for their own value creation in accordance with the framework conditions set by society, and it is important to give agriculture new opportunities to develop and reduce dependence on public support. In order for the settlement to be seen in the context of other policy priorities, I think it is neat that the settlement is dealt with in the context of the government budget and follows the calendar year. The State shall continue to grant financial support to agriculture, but such grants must be more targeted and less bureaucratic than they are today. The Progress Party considers it central to strengthen the farmer's ownership rights for his own use, for example. to propose the removal of a dwelling obligation. Occupancy is a barrier to the future development of agriculture and forestry in Norway, and it is not proven to contribute to settlement. In many cases, price regulation provides artificially low prices and prevents turnover and increases the risk of investments on the farm. A high distance between the market price and the regulated price also provides a basis for cases where parts of the purchase fee are hidden from the authorities. We believe it is a serious interference in ownership that the state forces people who want to sell the farm to take a lower price than the buyer is willing to pay. The Party of Progress is strongly critical of the agricultural policy pursued by the Red-Green Government and cannot therefore in any way support the negotiated agricultural agreement. The new agreement does not provide for a new direction in agricultural policy, despite the fact that there is a great need for a change of course in agricultural policy. Despite the fact that the red-green government announced a strong change in agricultural policy when it came to power, this has not happened. This year, too, there was a big gap between the requirement submitted by the farmers' organisations and the offer that came from the state. The negotiated agreement is approximately half of the initial requirement of the organisations. It is necessary to establish a normal market-based system for agricultural products managed by supply and demand. In the case of under-coverage in the market, the producer will be able to take a higher price, while the consumer can choose other products if the price of a product is too high. In that case, the prices of the products will vary in line with the market and the producers must be market-oriented in their production. In a situation that today, where consumers can demand more than the Norwegian farmer can produce, a market-based system will contribute to higher production. In a market-based system, competition between manufacturers will arise, leading to better products, innovation and more cost-effective production. This will contribute to better income opportunities for capable, innovative producers who are good businessmen. The Party will point out that market-based systems operate in all other markets and that there is therefore no reason to exempt agriculture from this. The sharp decline in the number of farmers and use will continue in the coming years and probably with increased force. Agricultural actors have little confidence in the future, and the confidence in the government's agricultural policy is at a low level. The agricultural policy that has been pursued for many years is a socialist experiment that has contributed to the Norwegian farmer being caught up in a network and a system that is now almost impossible to get out of. Agricultural policy is characterised by a strong drive to regulate the industry down to the smallest detail and by the fact that public bureaucrats and very detailed legislation have taken over the direction of agricultural development. The management to be provided by individual farmers over their own property and employment has disappeared, and the farmers are now more to be regarded as public employees and practitioners of a public policy than as self-employed. This has led to a lack of creativity, ability to invest and a desire to take risks in large parts of agriculture. I find it strange that both the agricultural organisations and the Central Party support a policy that leads to fewer farmers and much dissatisfaction with the income situation and opportunities among industry actors. It is therefore important to point out that the agricultural contract system has become so complex and complicated that few are outside the central bureaucracies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that are able to get involved in all aspects of the system and fully understand it. Nor have any other OECD countries found this appropriate. This may be harmful to other export industries, including: fish, when you put a milk toll on the fading 436 pst. Norway has to contend that international developments will reduce import protection in the wake of the WTO negotiations. The development offers a gradual increase in competition for Norwegian agricultural products. Despite a high level of customs protection, the Norwegian authorities have not set out a plan for meeting such a trend in Norwegian agriculture. This is very critical. The result may be that Norwegian agriculture will have a blue day when the outcome of the WTO negotiations becomes known. We need a new development of robust production, based on market economy. Some time ago, the food selection provided the analysis ‘Food, Power and Power’, which was to say something about the power conditions in the food value chain. Unfortunately, this became a political ordering agency that did not include those who really control food prices in the country, namely the monopolists and market regulators Tine and Nortura. Nearly nothing works in the Norwegian defunct, socialist agricultural policy. We have the world's most expensive food, with the world's worst selection, something agricultural minister Lars Peder Breck is brilliantly pleased with. Effectiveness cannot be achieved when the market is governed by a regulator and a monopolist who controls everything, such as: in the chicken industry. Rigid rules make, among other things, that chicken production has to be shut down for much of the year. Ole Robert Reitan told the following story at a lunch meeting, organized by Civita, about a meeting with the monopolist and regulator Nortura: He had first met with chicken producers, who were pleased that they had increased the hatch percentage so that profitability went up. Of course, it's important for a farmer to get the hatch percentage, because that's where the income comes, and that's when he gets more meat to sell. This he told Nortura at a meeting, who commented that it was not desirable for Nortura, because then more eggs were produced, and the price would be lower. If we go back to November last year, Nortura had a huge surplus of pork. But then the chains started the price war on ribs. What happened? In two weeks we were free of ribs in Norway and had to reduce customs protection in order to import ribs from other countries, while the government allowed the Norwegian rib to be dumped in Ukraine to less than 10 kroner per kg. Market regulator Nortura had exported — or dumped in good Norwegian — nearly 2 000 tonnes of pigmeat. The Minister of Agriculture's reaction to the fact that most people could avoid a little bit of cheap ribs was that, on questions from the undersigned from the Parliament's pulpit, he said that he thought it was 'utic' to pay less than 14 pounds for the pork meat. Where is the ethics when the policy of the Minister of Agriculture leads to the dumping of meat in Ukraine for well under 10 pounds and not 14 dollars? The government of Stoltenberg is clearly more concerned with subsidising cheap food in Ukraine than with pursuing a proper, good agricultural policy. It's not exactly a consumer-friendly policy we're looking at from the government today. This is socialist policy at its best – giving the world cheap meat and letting Ola and Kari Nordmann pay the bill. We also hear that from the representative of the Workers' Party here, who tells us how great it is to import from Swaziland. The food in Norway is 30-40 pst. more expensive than in Sweden and Denmark. Customs protection is responsible for a lot of this. It gives us poor samples, and it also gives us the world's most expensive food. We have a border trade that, according to the SSB, is 10.5 billion. kr, which according to the Swedish Trade Institute has reached a staggering 20 billion. kr. So what's right, and what's wrong? I think we have to assume that maybe the SSB has a little bit too low when you see what others come with. Here we have huge losses of industrial workplaces – in the order of 10 000 to 15 000 jobs that go away. The new agricultural message is proving to be a major problem for the government of Stoltenberg. Liv Signe Navarsete said in the nation yesterday that the agricultural message is not only important for the Center Party – it is most important. Internal rattlesing of the fur industry, and predatory settlements are some of the themes. The government shows political cowardice by postponing the notification after the 2011 elections. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3585	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3590	In a note, the Progress Party argues that it is important to bring down the high rates of food in Norway, and asks the government to step up its efforts to reduce them considerably. I have not come to the conclusion that the government has made a full withdrawal of the food production fee as of 1 January 2012 and that it means a premium of 600 million. kr – which means a lot to our industry? Hasn't the Progress Party got this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3597	Well, the Progress Party has brought it. But what you also have to take over is that because of import protection and everything else you do a lot of this. It is the target prices to which reference is made, so it is consumers who have to pay for what the government has done here at the end of the seventh. If the government had followed the policies of the Progress Party, it would not have been necessary to do so, and it would have been less expensive for consumers. The Party of Progress focuses, unlike the Government Parties, on the consumer perspective and not only on transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3604	The Progress Party notes that agricultural policy should no longer be part of the rural policy. I understand that. With the dramatic cuts they're doing, there's nothing left about district policy. My question to the representative is: does he expect the other bourgeois parties to be involved in such a breakdown of agriculture and the impact of rural policy on agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3611	In the case of agricultural rage, the Progress Party has not been in government. On the other hand, SV has been in government, and we see that there have been 36,000 fewer uses. We see that the farmers lose income opportunities, we see that the relocation has never been so big, and we see that food prices have never increased that much. So the only possibility for the Norwegian farmer is actually to get a quick government shift, so that you get the framework conditions and predictability that you need. The government of Stoltenberg has taken from the farmer the opportunity to be predictable. There is no predictability. And we can give you a lot of examples of that. One support scheme is launched one year – over the next year. There's no long-termity in this. What I can promise the representative is that when we get into government in 2013, the farmer will get better income and more predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3618	On pages 22 and 23 of the comments on the case, it is stated that the Progress Party will work for ‘a continuing significant Norwegian food production, differentiated housing and beautiful cultural landscape’. However, the Progress Party proposes to cut the budget support for agriculture by 7.7 billion. kr. This corresponds to an income decrease of DK 140 000 per year. Many of the agricultural policies we have are designed to strengthen the competitiveness of rural agriculture and to offset the production and market disadvantages they suffer. My question to the Progress Party is therefore: How will the Progress Party maintain agriculture in rural areas, when they remove all the means to secure this part of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3625	If the representative has read the comments – she should have read the comments and seen the whole of them, because to look at the comments of the Progress Party, one must look at the whole – she would see that we have a different way of managing agriculture. The government is using a system that no one in the world, not even in the OECD system, is farming. There's no place food is more expensive, there's no place we have more disembarkation, and there's no place that goes worse in terms of the policy being pursued today. With our policies, we would be going to deregulate. We're going to release the farmer, we're going to actually let the farmer be a self-employed person, not as the government does in the budget – to make him a public servant and a person who is not allowed to rule over his own land, not to decide on his own crop, and for that matter he cannot decide when to go to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3635	The Committee's consideration of the agricultural settlement of the year shows that there is a fundamental consensus on the importance of the important role of agriculture in the Norwegian society. The right is behind the objectives of agricultural policy. We want a profitable agriculture all over the country. Not least, we want an agriculture capable of producing quality raw materials for food production, and an agriculture that can be more competitive and more robust in the long term in relation to the globalisation and internationalisation that will inevitably follow, both in future WTO agreements – when they have to come – and in the gradual reduction of international customs barriers. We also want a profitable Norwegian processing production, also based on Norwegian raw materials. All of these good objectives mean that we have a good business policy. We need people who remain in the agricultural industry, and new ones like rates. But then they need political optimism. I think that this spring's discussions about agricultural settlement and agricultural notification have put industry in the immediate vicinity of a public discredit. I have discussed this with the State Council at Brekk in the Chamber here earlier, and it was therefore a pleasure to read in the Bondebladet that Breck says that you do not need to talk the industry down. I totally agree with him on that. I'm sure the headline for surmuling is at the expense of the Bondeblad. But I think he has to be aware that some of the dissatisfaction is due to the excitement that the red-green parties had previously set up through their party resolutions, which have proved not to be fully feasible when they were going into practical politics. At least we can see this in the communication for the time being. The right is of the opinion that the most important thing is to point to the industry’s opportunities — the opportunities that exist and those that are politically possible to create. It is therefore gratifying that a Joint Committee points out that this is an industrial agreement which sets out income opportunities for farmers as self-employed persons. I would like to commend the case rapporteur on those wordings, and not least on the fact that he has brought with him the entire government fraction on that kind of wording – very happy. But it is all the more surprising to read that yesterday the leader of the Central Party in the nation says about the delayed agricultural notification that it is the income level in dollars and ears that is closest to the veto point. This is when it comes to self-employed people and the possibilities are completely gone. This can't just be a paycheck. There's got to be a fight about the possibilities. We have focused on the possibilities in our comments in the setting. We believe that there is a need for a change in the systems – no revolution, but a wild change that over time increases profitability, recruitment, pride in the profession and not least respect for society. In any industry, there is only hard work and willingness to invest in equity and not least in working hours that produce results in the long term. Then it is important that the values in a commercial property, which it is also in agriculture. There is both residential property and commercial property. It has to be deregulated. Housing obligations, bans on sharing and price regulation are systems that have a slowing effect on the development of a modern society, including values. So to productivity: as the rapporteur also points out, and as an overall committee actually agrees, there are structural changes in Norwegian agriculture, by reducing many uses, which are the basis for productivity. But then it is strange that the majority say that we should prevent this development in the future agricultural notification. If it is that increased productivity is the result of this closure, and you praise productivity, I assume that you really must wish for structural changes. I think we have to accept the structural changes. We're not getting away from that. Therefore, we must have systems that reward, stimulate and ensure that structural changes are planned. We need to use the government grants in a way that rewards productivity, investment and progress, and that means that we might have to look at the distribution of public aid between full-time farmers and combined farmers, between products and between geographical regions. The right believes that we still need an agricultural agreement. We want another device. We want a different periodation that will follow the calendar year and the financial year. We have proposed this in the vote. Otherwise, we're going to go against I and II in the setting. We are going to support proposal No. 19 from the Left, and in all modesty I also take up our own suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3661	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3667	Both the Right and the Advance Party claim that agricultural policy has failed, for example: they indicate that some farm use is rationalised away. They themselves have alternatives that cut significantly in transfers and income opportunities, and they promise a more pure market solution as their alternatives. Obtaining economies of scale by growing is, of course, the very basis for making such agriculture cheaper, and there is only a larger take-off that can make it possible. So I don't think the argument is related. Or is it the case that the Right is tacitly in agreement with the Progress Party, which in the vote says that ‘a phase of modernisation will be that agricultural policy will no longer be part of the rural policy’?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3672	We never tacitly agree with any parts of the settings. Either we agree and stand there, or we don't stand there. In the case of poor conditions in Norwegian agriculture, we do not suck from our own breasts. That's what agriculture tells us. After all, the discussions that have now gone over a long time ahead of the agricultural message in the public space are based on the fact that there is a misunderstanding. Many people complain about the premises under which they work and want changes. That is what our alternative proposals go on – not to tear down or to rage, but on the contrary to try to bring about system changes over time that give positiveness and optimism to those in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3679	The party of progress has been honest enough to say that when they cut the agricultural budget, it goes beyond the rural impact of agriculture. Then I have the following questions to the fleet representative: Has the fleet estimated how much cut in their agricultural budget will go against the impact of regional policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3684	No, we haven't figured that out, but I think that would be very modest. For the representative Holmelid looks especially at some cuts, he does not look at what we do, for example. in other areas. In my post I skipped over, for example. what we do on the investment side, and how we want to stimulate investment. Agriculture has asked for an investment package of between 15 and 18 billion. kr over ten years, I think it is. They have been met in agricultural settlements with an investment aid of 28.5 million. kr. We say that over ten years will only remove the property tax, along with our proposals for depreciation and other ways of setting up the companies of the personal entrepreneurs, actually provide an investment capacity of about 15 billion. NOK, of which much is written from the property tax. It's $13. kr per year on agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3691	The comments also state that the Right will also work for ‘a continuing significant Norwegian food production, differentiated housing and beautiful cultural landscape’. The same was stated by the Right-Representative Lars Myraune when he met at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Bond Team last week. However, the right-hand side proposes to cut budget support by 2 billion. kr, this corresponds to an income decrease of NOK 36 000 per year. My question then turns to the Right: How should the Right maintain agriculture in the districts, such as the United Kingdom? Myraune calls for, when you are going to remove all the means to secure this part of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3698	Lars Myraune is a very solid and solid man who can be trusted when he says something. In addition, he is a farmer from Trøndelag. Our proposed cuts would not frustrate Norwegian agriculture. Every time we stand in this debate and in other agricultural debates, it is heard from the Central Party that any change in the system we now have will upset agriculture. I think that if the Center Party is going to get something into this area, including what's coming in the next message, they have to be open to listen to other alternatives and what other parties mean, and I believe first and foremost in their co-operations in the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3710	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3713	When we're going to discuss agriculture, it might be a point to take a look. We know that by 2050 the population in the world will be 8 billion people. The UN's agricultural and food organisation has calculated that in the period up to 2050 food production in the world must increase by 70 pst. At the same time, we know that climate change and extreme weather make food production more difficult in large parts of the world. In 2008, we had a food crisis that led to strong price increases in food, and it went extremely hard on the poorest in the world. These examples show that investing in food production, maintaining food production and increasing food production in Norway are both global solidarity with the weakest in the world and a security for our own people. The other perspective that I want to address is the common good that agriculture produces. Agriculture is very often the backbone of the bus around the district of Norway. While they are the backbone of the bus around the district of Norway, they are also the foundation of other industries, such as industry. the food industry and travel. A reduction or centralisation of agricultural activity will lead to depopulation of rural areas and land degradation. The third perspective is that Norway is a demanding country for farming. When we look at the topography and climate in Norway, we see that we cannot compete on equal terms with other countries. When we look at the difference between topography and climate, we also see that we can't compete on equal terms once in-house in Norway. Therefore, it is very important that we have a differentiated agricultural policy. We have a differentiated social welfare system that varies greatly from district to district. It's a foundation of Norwegian agricultural policy, and that's what makes us capable of having agriculture and bustling all over the country, and that's what makes us able to maintain a food production that we can support in international solidarity. A key element in maintaining agriculture throughout the country is strengthening the milk production economy. The reason why milk production is so important is, first of all, that milk production is what sustains agriculture in very many deferred parts of the country. In those parts of the country that I know well, such as the West and South, milk production is very important. In addition, milk production is a form of production that takes good care of the objective that says that we should produce as much food as possible from national resources. Milk production is based on roughage and partly grazing, and then we use national resources to produce food. Agriculture is also an important part of a larger value chain, and we actually have 100,000 added to agriculture and the agri-food industry. Thus, as many people have been in the past today, reducing the cost of food production is a very important part of the health that is needed for healthy farming in Norway. So in the end, I want to say a little bit about the Norwegian model of agricultural policy. I have earlier argued that we have special challenges in Norwegian agriculture. We have a goal of producing food and exploiting national resources. We have a regional policy objective, and we have a goal of producing social goods, and we also know, as I said, that we have wide variations in the ability to operate agriculture. This means that we have a country where we can't rely on market forces alone if we're going to achieve the goals we want. It is absolutely necessary to have a mix of support schemes, of regulation and of the market in which the market operates, if at all, we are to be close to achieving the objectives we have set here, which are on food production, which are on district policy, and which are on other welfare grounds. Then it might be nice to point out that there are actually other countries in Europe that are starting to look at the Norwegian model, because they see that their model is not working. Then I want to finish with a comment on the Progress Party, because the Progress Party is so very busy talking about setting the farmer free. But when the Progress Party talks about setting the pawn free, I think about Janis Joplin as a song: «Freedom's just another word for nothing left to loose.» The President, it's gonna be a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3732	Janis Joplin had a little better toneing to his statement than the representative had. But my question to the representative Holmelid has to do with predators. For approx. Ten minutes ago, the parliamentary leaders reunited to try to reach a predatory settlement. For some parts of the country, especially in the Lire and in some border areas, predators, and especially bears, are a major problem. My question to the representative Holmelid is this: Does the representative Holmelid agree that it is important that we get the most local management of the predators, and that we get a reduction in the bear trunk? That's my first question. My question number two to the representative Holmelid goes on the following: Agriculture is screaming for investment funds, and there are investment funds that are needed both to change production and to become more time-consuming in production. My question to Mr Holmelid's representative is this: How much of this agricultural settlement has been prepared for increased investment in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3741	To that end, with predatory policies, I would say that Norway has entered into international obligations when it comes to predators, and SV is concerned that we should find a good balance between our international obligations and that we should also have grazing animals in Norway. There are now several people sitting together trying to figure out the right balance. When it comes to predator management, I agree that we need to find a predator management that might be more effective, for example. when it comes to taking out special individual animals than what we've done today. So I've seen in relation to the media that it hasn't exactly been our SV who have put pairs in the way of finding a good deal. So now we're going to see what the parliamentary leaders are coming up with. When it comes to investment, I fully agree that agriculture needs investment, and that is what I expect us to come back to in the context of the agricultural notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3751	The representative Holmelid had a touching concern for the districts. It was almost as if a seat was dry in this room in the previous cord changer. Now, in some parts of the country, the sheep farmers feel that they are not allowed to release animals on a field trip until the next year, as the Food Authority has been in and said that predatory conditions are so problematic that animal welfare is at stake, and that violates the animal welfare laws we have. Does the representative Holmelid think that there is an appropriate balance between our international commitments and the agricultural policy we are going to pursue in Norway, when it is that farmers have to keep their sheep inside the house all year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3758	I have to take it as a compliment that there are no other questions about SV's agricultural policy than about predatory policies. But I'm going to go over to answer what's the question of predatory policy. Then I would say that there's a negotiation going on that balance, and what I've seen from the media, is that one of the reasons why they haven't come to goals already, is that it's hard to come to good negotiations with the party that the representative represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3763	For a time I was in a debate with your party leader, Kristin Halvorsen, about fur animals. She pointed out several times in the debate that it was about to lay down the fur farms as soon as it was allowed to do, preferably in a few weeks almost. My question to the representative is: we see that you are arguing and discussing how the fillets feel about the new farm message, and we also see that it is delayed because you have internal discussions. Will that be a requirement from, among other things, SV that the fur industry is abandoned in connection with that message, or will you do as you do in most other cases, to put you on the back of the Workers' Party and the others?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3770	When I hear the question, I'm going to think of a big American who once said that where everyone thinks the same thing, nobody thinks the same thing. So the fact that there is a discussion in a government is healthy for us to get innovation, which the representative very often talks a lot about. When it comes to fur animals, our position is very familiar, and what comes in the message will show the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3777	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3780	The focus on food, food security and food power leads to a high level of agricultural involvement. The fight for daily bread is therefore becoming increasingly important in a global perspective, and agriculture is clearly a future industry. Let me start by stating that the Centre Party is giving agriculture a high priority. There should be no doubt about that. The agreement on the framework concluded between the Norwegian Confederation and the State provides a basis for an income increase of about 10 p.m. or approximately 25 000 kr per year in 2012 compared to 2011 when the value of the agricultural deduction is included. This year's agreement involves an almost chronically similar development of agriculture compared to other groups. The agricultural agreement has a clear rural profile with a focus on grass-based livestock and grazing. Here, the focus on milk is very important, and this focus must continue. Milk production is an important support element in agriculture and there is a need to continue to strengthen this area, and this effort must also be made over several years. During the six years of red-green government and with central party councils as agriculture ministers, the price of milk to the producer has increased by about 1 kr per litre. This is worth noting. It is also important to find the right balance to ensure that we use the best areas for cereal production. This is an essential part of the channelling policy, which ensures active agriculture and a diverse use structure across the country, and which is also important for maintaining domestic grain production. Under the red-green government, agriculture has had a good income development. On several occasions, the Norwegian Bond team has shown that there has been a much more positive income development for farmers under the red-green government than under the previous government. This has been of great importance to farmers in recent years. This year's agreement continues this policy. Including the NOK 25 000 agreed in the year, agricultural income opportunities have increased by DKK 110 000 per year, or 70 pst., over the period 2006-2012. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the Farmers' Team, which was in the course of this year's negotiations, and thus helped to get the agreement ashore, which is very important for farmers. We also hear that there is impatience after moving on in the agricultural investment, and the Central Party is equally interested here. We will continue the fight for a living agriculture throughout the country. It is important to underline the differences along the political lines, between the Red-Green and Right and the Advance Party. Let me remind you that the Right has proposed a cut in the agricultural agreement of about 2 billion. kr, and the Progress Party has proposed a cut of 7,7 billion. kr and reduced import protection. This represents an income decrease of NOK 36 000 per year, respectively, and NOK 140 000 per year. For the industry, it would have had dramatic consequences if this were to be put into practice, and with this conversion it would not have been possible to have an agricultural product throughout the country. Agriculture where it is currently located is established where it was possible to operate agriculture. This suggests that we have a differentiated agricultural model that compensates for geographical and topographical differences. The centre party has no faith that removing the regulation and reducing the transfers, as the Right Party and the Advance Party agree, will lead to increased revenue for the food producer. Such a policy would weaken the farmer’s ability to earn income, thereby also weakening agriculture. Ensuring safe food for your own population is very important in a world where a billion people are starving. Population growth means that world food production needs to increase by 70 pst. by 2050. In Norway, food production needs to be increased by 20 pst. by 2030 to give birth to one million more Nordics. We politicians must take that responsibility internationally by ensuring greater self-sufficiency of Norwegian food based on Norwegian raw materials. It is then important that, through the agricultural policy and general framework conditions, we lay down conditions that require increased food production. And as we hear in this room, we still have a way to go politically before we can agree on these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3812	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3815	The chicken producers have stated that they are very satisfied now because they have got the hatch percentage up. The percentage of hatches is important for their performance — for them to have income that they can live on. But then Nortura said the following: it was not desirable for Nortura, because then it would produce more eggs, and the price would then be cheaper. So here you were really worried about getting a cheaper price among consumers. So in Norway, we have a price of 30-40 pst. higher than, inter alia, in Sweden and Denmark. So my question to the representative is: does the representative agree with and satisfy with the monopolist and regulator Nortura's fear that most people will get cheaper food in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3822	The centre party is concerned that we should have a living agriculture throughout the country, and we are concerned that Norwegian consumers should have access to good Norwegian raw materials. I don't want to comment on the individual matter that Treldal is in here. That's what it's all about. It's what it's all about. It's what it's about. We are concerned that we should still have important functions in relation to market regulators. It is important to ensure delivery, and it is important to ensure provision. It is also important that we facilitate good framework conditions, so that we can achieve a positive development for agriculture, and also stimulate both quality and further efforts in terms of productivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3831	In the right, we are also often around talking to representatives of agriculture. We've also taken the aim of making an alternative agricultural message, so that we can answer a little bit of the questions we get about what agriculture will be like if the Right gets to run the policy. We feel that there are great expectations for the agricultural notification. It shall in many ways help to create a long-term framework for the industry. Now we register that the last little message that was promised did not come in ours. The manager of the centre party has also been out and notified that if the message does not turn out to be the same as the centre party, it will not come at all during this period. Does the representative think that the chaos you create around expectations, and the chaos you create by not delivering the agricultural message, creating long-termity, predictability and good framework conditions for farmers and farmers in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3840	The centre party is committed to facilitating good agricultural framework conditions. There should be no doubt about that. I assume that we will have an agricultural message that is good, forward-looking and creates optimism for agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3846	I am pleased that the representative is very clear in his post about what you want, and what you want to work for. That is why I have a question for the representative, Lange Nordahl. The national meeting of the Workers' Party decided to shut down the fur animal industry, in accordance with given criteria. Party leader Kristin Halvorsen and party Socialist Left Party have taken the floor to shut down fur animal nutrition. Can the representative of Lange Nordahl promise in this Chamber that the Centre Party will ensure that there is no step towards shutting down the fur industry, so that this industry has the security of the investments it will make in the time to come and that there is no uncertainty as to whether or not there will be a continuation of the industry? Will the representative guarantee it, and that if you do not, you may be hard on it, and in that case you will leave the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3853	The centre party assumes that the fur industry should be able to have a further future in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3858	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3861	It is positive to note that there is broad agreement on the role of agriculture as a producer of high-quality safe food. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that there is a broad political consensus on import protection and agricultural transfer. Nevertheless, we want a more offensive approach to the major challenges facing agriculture. We hope that the notified agricultural message – once it has to come – addresses these issues in its full scope. We're looking forward to that. The agricultural settlement of the year is in port, but the Christian People's Party would have wanted a larger framework. At the committee hearing, Norwegian Farmers' Associations and Small Farmers' Associations said that there was a need for 300 million. in addition, only for the purpose of recovering the income allowance. In the proposition, the government says that the farmers have had an income increase of 54 pst. under the red-green government. This is true if you take the total calculation into account. However, the total calculation is not comparable to that of the individual economic operator. Looking at the entrepreneurial income of agriculture, it has fallen from NOK 147 000 to NOK 136 000 per year for the period 2005-2009. This shows that the government has failed and that there is a need for a proper revenue raise. Low revenues make recruitment to the industry difficult. It's even more difficult when the farmer doesn't have the opportunity to take vacations in the same line with others in society. A 2008 survey showed that half of the respondents took less than three weeks off. Each 12th farmer does not have a holiday at all. The main explanation for this is that it is difficult to obtain a replacement. In many cases, the farmer cannot afford to take a vacation either. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that the organisations did not reach their requirement for 7 pst. increases in the rates of grants to welfare schemes, including: for holidays. In the final agreement, the increase of 4 pst. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the framework conditions for traders should be as good as possible. Agriculture is not an exception. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has on several occasions proposed the removal of property taxes on working capital as well as better depreciation schemes. These are measures that will improve the economy of primary industries. On this basis, it is remarkable that the government chooses to increase the social security charge on agriculture and forestry at an ordinary rate for 2012. This increase will significantly increase the tax burden on the forestry industry. When we see that only one third of the growth is taken out, this indicates that the profitability is low in forestry. The least-needed forestry industry is an increase in fees. We hope that the agricultural message sees agriculture and forestry in the context, so that we can get a strong commitment to the primary industries. It's just 3 pst. of the land area of Norway which has been cultivated. The areas most suitable for cultivation are under constant pressure. It is positive that the majority of the Committee acknowledges that this is a major problem. It's a long way to go to the government's own goal of halving. The government believes that developments are now reversed. According to the Christian People's Party's view, the rate of redeployment has been reduced, and it's too early to say that the trend is really reversed. The Christian People's Party proposed that the stockpiling of cereals be reintroduced in the setting on the farm. It is gratifying that the government agrees with the comments of the Christian People's Party on the introduction of subsidies for the stockpiling of seeds. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is an important measure to ensure food supply. Finally, I address the proposals made by the Christian People's Party in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3880	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3885	I want to start by giving tribute to the Christian People's Party and the representative Andersen Eide because they like the Labour Party are busy with this by providing good welfare arrangements for agriculture. The welfare arrangements are increased by 4 pst. at the end of the year. Having said that, Mr Eide, the representative of the Committee, writes that: ‘It becomes even more difficult for farmers to take vacations’. Can the representative explain in detail how this increase may weaken the possibility of taking vacations?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3895	We believe that welfare schemes are schemes that have been low in focus for several years. When we see that there are so few farmers taking vacations, there are so many who say they can't afford to take a vacation, that there are so many people who don't have a chance, or that there's not enough time to take a vacation, we realize that when they ask for 7 pst, there's a basis that can do better for them. Of course: 4 pst. do it a little better, but to do as you and I can, take out at least three weeks of vacation every year; it must be a goal for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3900	I will not spend more time in holiday discussions, but I will ask the representative Andersen Eide about the following: In his post, the representative was very pleased that it now seems that we are going to start with the stockpiles of seed. It's very special. So Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. It is said that worldwide problems are now beginning to arise in connection with the delivery of, among other things. cereals. If other Western countries are to follow Norway and start reprocessing new cereal stocks, i.e. countries that have a long-established economy, have good advice and welfare arrangements for their own population, start buying up seeds in the world market, which is quite natural, this Christian People's Party proposal will result in poor countries, such as African countries, getting even more expensive food, even more hungry and even more problems producing for their own consumption. Is the representative satisfied with this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3907	It is not the starting point of the Christian People's Party to wish to conserve cereals in Norway. We look at the situation as it has been in recent years, that crops have failed in Russia and many other countries. We see that the grain is quite expensive, and we want to meet it by producing more grain in Norway to reprocess our own stocks. It's important to our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3912	The Christian People's Party, together with the Party of Advancement and the Right, stands in a note criticising the government for adding a 200-million-dollar tax increase. forestry kr. The representative also stated that there was a purely tax increase, while agriculture was compensated by the agricultural agreement. In addition, the Christian People's Party writes in a note, which they have alone, that they 'presuppose that the possibility of depreciation is improved', i.e. that they want an improvement on the tax side. I have to say, from the right, that we are very happy with these comments. I would like to ask the representative: does this mean that we can expect support from the Christian People's Party even on later occasions in terms of tax relief for business in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3917	The Christian People's Party has for several years said that we want tax relief on property taxes in the case of working capital. We've been very clear about that, and that also applies to agriculture. In terms of depreciation rates, we want to raise them from 4 to 6 pst. It's very clear. So if the Right will support the Christian People's Party in this regard, we are grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3925	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3928	The left wants it to be motivated, competent, creative and productive farmers throughout the country. The obvious question is whether the agricultural settlement of the year contributes to that precisely. If we're going to believe the government in general and the Center Party in particular, that's exactly what's going on. Not least in the light of the Central Party press conference, it would be thought that the country was flooded with happy and satisfied peasants. It's not like that. The left has been critical of the way agricultural negotiations are conducted, for several years, but it seems to be extra bad this year. There's a lot of reasons for that. I'll mention someone: There will be less and less real negotiations. The state’s offer came very, very late — totally unnecessary — and most clarifications have obviously occurred in the back. In this way, there is respect for the failure of the Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team in the negotiations. The tax administrations that were used for the settlement represent more than the changes in the State budget – 415 million. kr versus 365 million. kr. It is a major democratic problem, not least when we know that the government will keep the overall level of taxation unchanged. The agricultural settlement bill is forwarded to something or someone that is currently unknown, and we have to wait until October to find out. The conclusion of the agreement is problematic from 1 July 2011 until 1 July 2012. In the view of the Left, the agreement should follow the calendar year. That would make the government budget process more real. It is now budgeted in the light of the agreement concluded, and then an additional proposal is made each year on changes in the state budget in relation to the management of the agricultural holding. That's what the Left believes is unyielding. Here there is reason to point out that government parties are constantly arguing against proposals made by the opposition in various cases because it has proceeds and thus can/should only be dealt with in ordinary budgetary proceedings. A number of things, such as: development programme for foodspecialities from Norwegian agriculture, rural development funds, bioenergy programmes, agricultural research and various environmental measures are well and good, but in the view of the Left, there is nothing to do in negotiations between the State and the farmers. Nevertheless, it is part of the «package» for which the Stortinget has been asked to take a decision today. The Left wishes to re-examine the agricultural negotiations and, therefore, proposes to the House today that the agricultural negotiations in their present form be abolished. New agreements are introduced based on the calendar year and are greatly simplified in content. Only matters directly affecting the income of the farmer shall be part of the contract work. The other areas currently covered by the agricultural agreement follow normal budgetary practices. The left will vote in favour of this year's agricultural settlement and the changes in the 2011 government budget that this entails, but with strong doubts. There is no reason to doubt that we will not transfer the necessary funds to the farmers of the country. The left wants to maintain transfers of the state budget at the current level, but we want a different arrangement. Nor is this doubt justified by many and unnecessary regulations in and by the practice of agriculture. These are up to the bulk of the population that legislates to change. Hopefully that happens after the next choice. The question is justified in the undemocratic form of the agricultural settlement of the year, where the Storting really has no choice but to vote in favour or against a negotiated agreement between the State and the Norwegian Confederation, and which contains a number of democratically questionable elements, to which I have explained. The left promotes a number of proposals in the Chamber today that will make Norwegian agriculture more robust to meet the future. In addition, we want to support minority proposals 1 to 7, 15, 16 and 18. Overall, these changes in agricultural policy, combined with reasonable redundancies in the state budget, would lead to exactly what I said in the beginning, that the Left would have motivated, skilled, creative and productive farmers. In a sense, the agricultural policy of the Left, as we see it, is a combination of the most sensible from the left and the most sensible from the right. Because it's obvious that something has to be done. The well-regulated agricultural policy that has been pursued for decades has failed to meet either the objectives adopted or the stated objectives relating to housing, employment and income levels. The number of uses in operation and the number of active farmers are falling rapidly, and the development fears the Left will continue. Finally, I address the Left's proposal, which is distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3956	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she mentioned. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3961	In the Bondevik government had the Left Minister of Agriculture. I have a specific question: how many times did the Left propose to change the way the agricultural negotiations were conducted?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3966	It's almost tragic to have to go over six years back in time, and ask questions with that as a starting point. I would like the representative to be able to ask another question in view of the fact that we are now presenting proposals for many amendments, proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber. Unfortunately, we're not represented in the nutrition committee, I'm very sorry, but with all due respect to report, it's going to be very strange. What our Minister for Agriculture has put forward, referred to some of our proposals in the Chamber today – the one with Jarlsbergosten, which the Minister for Agriculture has said he will remove the export aid for, and then we have the fur industry, which we did not subsidize either. And our Minister of Agriculture also did not subsidize the environmentally hostile forest roads and granular plantings, as this government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3973	I perceive that the representative was united in the framework of the agricultural policy, but that she wants a completely different device. Now I've gone through the suggestions that came from the left. There are some adjustments to things, but nothing is close to it can call a completely different device of the use of economic tools in agriculture. What major changes in the use of pesticides in agriculture is the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3980	As I see it, in the Left, we have the best both from the right and the left of the agricultural policy. As I said, we support the incomes of the farmers, and we want to secure the frames around the farmers. We fully agree with the left-hand side. But then there have to be some structural changes. We've pointed that out several times. One of the structural changes that have to be made is at least that you have a little bit more transparency. We who sit on the outside of the agricultural negotiations, hardly know what is going on. People don't know what's going on. We want greater transparency during the agricultural negotiations – that you don't put in a lot of things, as I mentioned from the pulpit, that you don't have an overview of. We must have real negotiations and greater transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3985	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e3988	The agricultural agreement that Stortinget is dealing with today is, in my opinion, a good deal. This year, too, the government, through negotiations, has ensured the necessary growth in the income opportunities for its food producers. In doing so, we are continuing the important change in the course of the government's agricultural policy on the day that the red-green government took over in 2005. Income levels and developments are the main basis for ensuring recruitment and investment. By allowing the industry, which consists of self-employed people, to have opportunities to increase its incomes, we also make the industry even better able to deliver what the large community orders: agriculture throughout the country, rural settlements, cultural landscapes and safe Norwegian food. When the red-green government took over, agriculture was in the midst of a very negative development. Low income trends and thus considerable uncertainty about recruitment, as well as a lack of the necessary investment will, led the industry into a negative spiral. The red-green government has reversed this trend. That was absolutely necessary. And of course we haven't done it in any way. We'll go even further. A government that shows a willingness to invest in agriculture meets high expectations in industry, sometimes very high expectations. This became particularly evident when Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' teams broke the negotiations this year. I am pleased that the Norwegian Bond team chose to enter into an agreement and use the influence the negotiations provide the industry. This year’s agreement raises the net income per farm per year by approximately NOK 25 000 in 2012 compared to the level calculated in 2011 before the negotiations. That's more than 10 pst. increase. And I want to stress that we're talking about net income here. The NOK 25 000 comes after a forecast cost increase of SEK 735 million. kr is covered in. This means that it is compensated for a cost increase of 3 pst., for total agricultural costs is almost 25 billion. kr, including interest payable. The agreement also takes into account that the revenue trend from 2006 to 2011 was estimated to be lower than that of the parties to the agreement last year. This agricultural agreement also contains an important new approach to agricultural and food policy. In order to ensure a strong and innovative food industry in Norway, we cannot in the long run increase the income potential of the raw material in a value chain. We're in competition with the outside world. Imports are increasing, and the whole sector needs competitiveness. As a result, the government chose to set aside the 2012 food production fee as the premise for the negotiations. By doing so, the food industry has met one of its main requirements to the authorities. Over 600 million. NOK in fees need not be paid. The Norwegian agricultural produce accounts for about 280 million. NOK of this. The rest of the fee will apply to raw material from the fishing industry and necessary imported raw materials that we do not produce ourselves in Norway. There has been a special Norwegian exercise in taxing food production. From 2012 it's gone. As we increase commodity prices at the same time, we are effectively helping to ensure that the price increase can end up with the farmer and not in other stages. It can and should contribute to a better distribution of income in the value chain. And in that way, it was possible to increase agricultural prices without harming consumers. The price increase for consumers, as a result of this year’s contract in isolation, is estimated to be 0,7 pst. average. It is therefore strange when the Progress Party says in the vote that again it is ‘the consumer who has to take the bill for the government’s failed agricultural policy’. In fact, prices have increased more in Sweden and Denmark than in Norway in recent years, and consumer prices have fallen by 0.6 pst in the last 12 months. in Norway. So I see no reason to dramatise the impact of this agricultural agreement on consumers, although the competition challenge for the Norwegian food sector is always an important consideration of agricultural policy. This agricultural agreement also gives high priority to rural agriculture, in particular milk production, which has a high investment need and is a backbone in rural agriculture. At the same time, cereal production also clearly improves the framework conditions. It makes sense to ensure Norwegian production of food and feed cereals. On the right, their criticism is partly based on what they call ‘full investment drought’. I should like to hear what is the basis of fact for that statement. Investments are now at a higher level than in the early 2000s. But it is true that investment needs are very high in the future. Therefore, improved income opportunities are also essential. And then the opposition's alternative budgets and alternative agricultural policies are not the way to go. It will provide less investment, poorer recruitment and weaker foundations for continued agriculture across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4011	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4014	In the nations of yesterday it says: "Win or lose for the Sps pawn message." It also says: ‘either the farm notification gives an impression to Sp, or there will be no agricultural notification. – It is not presented until it has a content we can stand for,” says Sp-leader Liv Signe Navarsete. And further questions to the Council of State: ‘– Is it relevant to continue with the government if you do not agree on an agricultural message Sp cannot ‘stand upright’? – It is not appropriate to provide an agricultural message Sp cannot be provided.’ My question to the Council of State is: Is it such that the message of agriculture is so little important to the Central Party that internal discussions and disputes are now at risk of failure to submit the message? For the Council of State, it says that the message will not be sent unless the Central Party gets what they want. So if the Center Party doesn't get the impact they're going to have, will the Council of State refuse to provide the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4037	What is a fact is that we have notified the Stortinget in a letter of 10 June that we are going to present an agricultural message for the autumn. And my ambition is, of course, to follow up what has been reported in that letter. In relation to the work on an agricultural message, which is a very comprehensive matter – it is one of the most complicated messages you can provide to the Stortinget, as it appears, among other things. by the fact that there are many, many years between each time it is done — it requires many careful and thorough reflections, many discussions between the different departments and many thorough rounds of government. I am concerned that the work will be carried out properly and well, and I am concerned that it will be carried out in such a way as to ensure a message that creates faith in the future. So we need a little bit more time. And there's no news in itself that you once and for all have to go to the step of spending a little longer time on such work than you originally planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4046	I record that the Council of State did not respond to the question of whether a message would be provided. At least he didn't answer what I asked for. I could try to elaborate it a different way, so maybe the Council of State can answer. If it happens that SV and the Workers' Party are going to shut down the fur industry and that goes against a poor predatory settlement – which is coming – and that, according to your party leader, your Vice-Chairman and your second Vice-Chairman – the entire party leadership – is not going to be a message, my question is to the Council of State: Where is the pain limit at the Council of State and the Centre for when you intend to put away your black government cars? Is it whether you're losing on predators, or is it whether you're losing on fur nutrition? If you don't get a pass for any of this, I'm assuming you're leaving, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4053	Perhaps it is time for the President to remind us that all speeches should be addressed to the President. That's when the Council of State, Breck, will have an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4058	Let me first of all be allowed to say that it is a little complicated to answer questions that lie at discussion in Stortinget. The predatory business is here right now, and I hope, of course, that there will be good solutions – I assume – through the discussions that take place among the parties in the Stortinget. In addition to that, I will not comment on the predatory debate today. With regard to the issue of fur animals, which has been a very complicated matter, I would like to stress that my ambition in working with fur animals has been to ensure the industry a future, by making stricter operational requirements, by having tougher regulations – to use that concept – by ensuring stricter control, and not least by ensuring that industry itself has a better follow-up to good operational practices through certification schemes. That work seems to be going very well, and I expect it to have positive effects. Then it is that we have to take the necessary discussion after decision at the National Labour Party meeting. There will be an answer in the big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4067	I am pleased that the Council of State has read our note on investments. We have used strong words to arouse his attention, and we have done so. What we're proposing about investments is a package that over ten years would give about the same thing the Farm wants. The Council of State agrees that reduced taxes on wealth, increased depreciation, better tax opportunities for personal companies – that is, they only pay 28 pst. tax – in isolation are good measures for agriculture with a view to improving investment capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4076	I would say that all business life, whether it's agriculture or other parts of business, will certainly benefit from that kind of action. And there are discussions going on in the different years of budget discussions, so I'm not going to go into it any further. The reason I asked the question about the basis of the comments from the Right was that the investments have increased in recent years, and they are now 2 billion. kr higher than in 2002. I think that what representatives from the Right have been basing themselves on was a misrepresentation in the Nations newspaper of statistics on agricultural use started from the Statistical Central Bureau. These figures are subsequently corrected, and it turns out that they have a more positive development than what appeared there. Regarding the package over ten years: Yes, we work with the investment framework conditions, and we use approx. 450 million. kr a year on it for agriculture right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4085	This is no longer working, said the Contact Body of the EEAS during the consultation of the farm. Today, there is little room for joint ventures. What was an advantage a few years ago — combining and improving the efficiency of operations — has become a disadvantage. The agricultural agreement reduces, inter alia: the high level of aid for production per litre of milk, in the case of high production, is thus granted less aid. Will the Council of State continue to want forms of cooperation as a means of agricultural activity in the future, and what action will the Council of State take to make this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4094	Let me say that I fully agree with Andersen Eide's representative that cooperative ventures for very many are a good way to organise operations. I've said that many times, including in this room. And users, farmers, should be free to choose the most appropriate form of organisation, based on local circumstances in the individual case. However, what is important is that legislation and grant measurement should not discriminate between different forms of organisation. That is why there has been a lot of emphasis on harmonising legislation over several years, and I think it is very clear that it should continue to be an objective for matters other than regulatory adaptation to decide which form of organisation is to be chosen. So with that, I want to say, yes, the co-operation is important to many, but it is not suitable for everyone, and we see today that more investment is being sought from farms with families. That, I think, is a positive development for agriculture as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4103	I used large parts of my contribution to the agricultural negotiations. Does the Council of State think that the way the negotiations were taking place now in spring strengthens the agricultural negotiations as the Institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4110	Let me say that when, as the Minister responsible for the negotiations, I have a mandate, it is my task on behalf of the government to ensure that an agreement is reached. Then we also put a job into it. We might have thought of clarifying the framework for this a little earlier, but besides that I think there have been real and proper negotiations this year as well. I would like to say that I am a little surprised that the representative from the Left so criticises both the implementation of the agricultural negotiations and the system we have today. I think it was actually former Minister of Agriculture Sponheim who in his time changed the system from annual settlement to the system we have today. So the system we have now gives us the opportunity to adapt to the budget that's coming next year, and then there's a system that we've implemented in the annual negotiations over the last few years that is such that if the assumptions don't work, it's been possible to compensate for it through next year's agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4117	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4121	The debate clearly shows that in agricultural policy it is a clear and clear political distinction. In the Workers' Party, we believe that using people's labour and creativity to exploit the whole country can be a matter of resources, of value-making, of employment and of the best for the country. Food production is a major and important task nationally and globally. I experience it so that most farmers have great faith in the future and not least emphasize the importance of the value of what they are doing. It is a professional group with great professional pride. Our aim is that agriculture should produce safe food, ensure food supply, provide diversity in the cultural landscape and contribute to employment and housing across the country. We want to use the country's resources. We see great qualities in a policy that ensures agriculture throughout the country, with a varied and diverse use structure. The agricultural agreement, as it has achieved in recent years, underpins policy objectives. In contrast to these objectives, the Right Party and the Advance Party appear almost identical in their view that such objectives are subordinate to agricultural policy. Not so surprising – Right will structuralise, while the policy of the Progress Party will most likely lead to the destruction of Norwegian agriculture. This is the marked political difference between us and the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. We want to use the resources across the country, while the right side will centralise Norwegian agriculture into the flatlands of the east, Jären and Trondheimsfjorden. A large-scale centralisation of Norwegian agriculture would, in our opinion, make our country poorer. Opportunities and diversity would be reduced and gradually removed. I have been involved in a lot of agricultural policy debates in the last year, and I have not registered a single one in the industry that has called for the Right and the Advance Party solutions – not one vote. The only people who want that policy are on the Stortinget and are most likely members of the Progress Party or the Right. That's probably very good, what the fleet representative said to the Nation's newspaper on 7 May this year: "There isn't a massive line of farmers outside here saying that our proposals are brilliant." I have a great understanding of that. As far as the policy of the Progress Party is concerned, I think it will result in the word ‘beneficiary’ being deleted from the Norwegian vocabulary by a majority. The agreement entered into by the State with the Norwegian Bondelag, with a framework of 1 420 million. NOK, has been thoroughly reviewed by the case rapporteur, and I agree with the assessments he made without reservation. Under the red-green government, agriculture has had a good income development. DKK 110 000 per year for the period 2006 to 2012 is a good development. In addition, in this year's agreement, we have been told that one will wind up the food production fee in the State budget for 2012. In total, the fee will be approximately 615 million. kr. 280 million. NOK is applicable to direct Norwegian-produced agricultural products. This is a large and significant tax relief that affects the whole value chain. The tax burden also leads to a relatively low price increase for consumers, about 0,7 pst. In sum, there is a good agreement, which ensures that agricultural income opportunities are well developed and balances consumer considerations. The isolated price effect of the agricultural holding could be that the consumption prices of food increase by an average of about 0,7 pst. Since food stands for 10-11 pst. of total consumption, the agricultural production and increase in target prices, if achieved, will result in a price increase of well below 0,1 pst. So, in my opinion, the presentation of the consequences of the agricultural settlement by the Progress Party is totally wrong. But when the Progress Party and the Right write that you have to be careful to throw too much of the cost over to the consumers, that is something I agree with. The year’s settlement is evidence that the practice is already intact in relation to this prudence. It's a good deal that the League has negotiated with the state. I would like to pay tribute to the management of the Farmers' Association for negotiating an agreement that ensures agricultural income growth at about the same level as other professional groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4153	This has been an agricultural debate at regular intervals. No new recordings have been entered. We've heard government parties that usually tell us how great everything goes, that over the last few years you've had this kind of income development. We've heard centrists and SVs and others here talk about that we need to increase the self-sufficiency rate of food, because the population is going to increase. Yes, obviously some people in this room believe that Norway is not self-sufficient in food, which is especially all the time we export 37 million meals every day. The fact that the Storting has not brought it is worrying, because you simply put the whole fishing industry aside, and then you say that agriculture is food, and fish is something else. It's very special. It is not so special that the Minister of Agriculture was unable to deliver what he had promised, namely an agricultural message in ours. After hearing the linecode exchanges here and the speeches to the individuals, I just have to say to the Minister of Agriculture, good luck on the way. Now you have to use the summer vacation and the summer to try to sew together some of these different recordings and positions you have. Because it is clear that when the representative Lange Nordahl, in reply to me in a reply, stated in a reply that the fur industry should be maintained, while the representative Holmelid obviously has a clear claim from his members that the fur industry should be removed, yes, there is a challenge. So I understand that the agricultural message did not come into place until the summer. But here are other things that worry more. The chairperson of the Committee indicated that for the average Nordmann there could be an increase in the food price of 0,1 pst. Think how fun it would have been if we were average Northmen. The problem is that those who are actually hit by the price increases in this context are the families of young children. I'll use an example. First, we all have paychecks in Norway. We start with the private sector. Then we go to public settlement, both in the state and in the municipality. The real wage increases were put in place in those negotiations. After this was done, the farm was prepared. In fact, for a single-parent family, with two children and two adults, the increase that will come into the agricultural business, along with other tax increases and VAT that come to the top of it again, will result in much of the real wage increase that was thought to be – not much of a percentage – actually being eaten up on the farm. This is the consequence of the target price. I have to say, it all works out when you're talking about how important it is to put these spares in place with seeds. It is not considered what kind of effects it can have on other countries, especially the poor countries. Because if the rich countries, the Western countries, were to start building up large stockpiles of cereals — cereals are bought in a world market today — prices would rise considerably. These are cereals that you're not supposed to produce, but that you're supposed to be prepared for. In fact, that could lead to – I shouldn't be concluding, like everyone else – that could lead to poor countries not being able to buy grain for their population. I hope that's not the intention – that we in the world's richest country, along with other rich countries, should do this. Finally, I just have to address another challenge related to the consequences of the agricultural settlement. It is true that in surveys conducted by consumers, there is one thing that is very concerned about and that has not been achieved: increased access to different products — the range of products in Norway. The food chain selection has also pointed that out. Yeah, that's what you stop at import protection. But I would like to thank the Council of State, Breck, for one thing. It's that this time he didn't go into traps in terms of imposing a percentage duty on cheese. I hope he will also soon remove it for milk. We will support the Left's proposal, No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4168	It is good that the parties were involved in an agricultural agreement. That the farmers' organisations claim they are disappointed and that Norwegian farmers' and small farmers' teams chose to break the negotiations may well be seen in the light of the high expectations of government parties at their national meetings. The agricultural agreement is important. The contractual system should provide income opportunities for farmers as self-employed workers and facilitate the development of the industry in a good way and ensure long-term food supply. Sick-working farmers contribute to the creation of value and to the pursuit of economic activity. Like the tourism industry and the fishing industry, agriculture has a major role to play in ensuring positive development in many communities. In addition to food production, agriculture also produces forest products and common goods as viable and living areas and a wide range of environmental and cultural goods. For the right, it is important that the farmer has good development opportunities — good tools to improve the basis for varied and active agriculture throughout the country. It is unfortunate that today’s structuring often happens uncontrollably and planlessly. In the right-hand view, it is necessary to stimulate the optimal use of the total resources of agricultural holdings. The strong property regulations that currently rest on Norwegian agricultural properties demotivate and operate against their purpose. The prohibition of sharing – that a land cannot be separated from the building stock – also contributes to the very expensive purchase of land. The right considers that consideration of increased turnover, better holding of buildings and cultural memories will require the removal of dwelling and price control. In response to difficult questions and challenges in agriculture, government parties have pointed to the notified agricultural notification. The fact that the notification which has been under preparation since 2009 is once again deferred means that the agricultural industry still has to hover in uncertain terms about its framework conditions. Right expects the government to put its internal disputes aside, and deliver the message as promised. The fact that it is ‘complicated’, as the head of the Business Committee said in the nations today, is by no means an excuse. While the government is arguing, the change in agriculture is going wrong. More than 34 000 farms with housing are currently empty and at maturity. In order to ensure a more future-oriented agricultural industry less dependent on transfers, it needs to be organised in such a way as to allow more people to grow more and more robust. For the Right, it is central to strengthening the ownership of the peasant for his own use. The State shall continue to contribute financial support to agriculture. However, the aim must be to make grants more targeted and less bureaucratic than they are today. The right has proposed to lift the obligation to live – this is because we believe it prevents the future development of agriculture and forestry in Norway. In addition, there is no evidence that housing contributes to increased housing. We also believe that price regulation on properties in many cases provides artificially low prices, prevents turnover and increases the risk of investing in the farm. It is also a serious infringement of ownership when the person who sells a farm is forced by the country to take a lower price for the property than it buys is willing to pay. A high distance between the market price and the regulated price may also provide a basis for cases where part of the purchase fee is hidden from the authorities. The right expects instruments such as price control and compulsory housing to be the subject of the forthcoming agricultural notification. If it is not to be operated against closure and if important cultural memories are to be preserved, then other and more profound changes need to be made to speed up investment in the industry. The future framework conditions for agriculture must become more predictable over the years, so that economic operators can construct investments and production plans more in the long term than is currently the case. Investment in Norwegian agriculture is high, especially in the modernisation of milk production. Much is related to a generation of operational buildings being phased out or undergoing restoration measures, including: due to new animal welfare requirements. In order to make it more profitable and less bureaucratic to operate in co-operation, the Right will remove geographical and numbering constraints that currently have a negative impact on the mode of operation. On the right, the government expects the agricultural notification to focus on how better to facilitate incentives for increased investment in agriculture. In alternative state budgets, we placed great emphasis on the creation of an investment fund, better depreciation schemes and a reduction in the taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4202	I want to start my post by giving honor to the Norwegian Bond team, who took responsibility and agreed to give a well-acceptable offer to the farmers this year. It is also gratifying that a person continues the strong district profile from last year’s specifications, including: by prioritising grass-based operations. There are some pillars on which the government's agricultural policy is based. The first is channelling policy. It ensures that food and cereals are produced on the best areas and milk and meat in the districts. Cultural landscape management is a natural effect of food production, precisely because grazing is given priority. Another effect of Norwegian agricultural policy is the build-up throughout the country. We just have to realize that the conditions are different in our long-term country, and if we want housing and agriculture across the country, the market cannot control this alone. It is clear and easy to see the red thread of this government’s agricultural policy, with a varied structure of use and active agriculture throughout the country. But I just have to admit that I can't find the red thread in the right-hand side of my agricultural policy. How should farming be maintained throughout the country with fewer grazing animals, with no – or at least much reduced – support for agriculture on the one hand and cheaper food and a strong focus on cultural landscape care on the other? And customs protection, it's going down, or away. Well, from the Right we'll probably get answers in their agriculture message. In the case of the Progress Party, which is intended to have agricultural agreements, customs protection or transfers, this can only be understood as one thing: the Progress Party is and will be the big import party, and district policy objectives – it does not have one. I've been trying to figure out what Right means about central issues like milk quotas and reception obligations. In the nation on May 7 this year, we could read that the representative fleet said yes to the disappearance of milk quotas with the Right, and yes to the obligation of reception. However, the representative concluded that: ‘Insofar as it shall be a reception obligation or a reception obligation: [[...]] And in the comments to the agricultural agreement, the Right, together with the Progress Party, is to raise the ceiling on the milk quotas – it is no longer ‘removed’. Of course, it's a fair case that not everyone has an answer to everything, but I assume that this topic is now thought through from the Right's side, and that it emerges in their alert agricultural message. So my question is, how long do farmers have to wait in suspense of this warning of the agricultural message in order to find out what the Right wants in their agricultural policy? I don't know why it takes so long in the Right, but in the light of strong statements that the government's agricultural message takes too much – I repeat too much – for a long time, yes, it must be allowed to expect that Right will soon be done with the internal chanchanter in the party and come with this message. Or is it that criticism of government spending a long time was a habit? Or could it have been a little bit more complex than a first thought? Or is it that the Right turns out to be little capable of drawing conclusions and little deliverable when everything comes to it? We also see here today clear distinctions in Norwegian policy between us red-green, who want an active and varied agriculture and housing across the country, and the Right and the Progress Party, which, after all, is most concerned about the market being raw on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4224	Let there be no doubt: the agricultural settlement of the year is in line with the political objectives of the Labour Party in agricultural policy, and is in line with the series of good agricultural settlements from this government, which in turn provides the basis for increasing incomes in Norwegian agriculture. When including this year's agreement, agricultural incomes have increased by approximately NOK 110 000 per year, or by about 70 pst. for the period 2006 to 2012. This is in stark contrast to the description of Norwegian agricultural policy by the Progress Party. In one of the comments, the Progress Party believes that agricultural actors have little confidence in the future, that the confidence in the government's agricultural policy is at a low level, and that the policy that has been pursued against agriculture for many years is a socialist experiment that has contributed to the Norwegian farmer's being caught in a network, a system that is now almost impossible to get out of. Then it becomes strange and very inconsistent that the Progress Party in the same remark says that it is strange that the agricultural organisations support such a policy. Here you can really say that it's talking to two tongues. It is also sad to read in the same note that the Progress Party defines the peasants as public employees, where creativity, bet ability and the desire to take risks are almost absent. This is a broken description of Norwegian farmers, and I would also like to say that it is a direct observational description of public employees. As I know Norwegian farmers, hardworking and creative people are busy exploiting their properties in a good way. In addition, Norwegian farmers are in fact sought after as a labour force because of their diverse backgrounds, among others. in the oil industry. This just gets sad, and I hope a lot of farmers and public employees notice this. At the same time, the impression is that the agricultural policy of the Progress Party is a desired policy of the farmers. I don't know if I can take it seriously. I don't know anyone who wants agriculture where market-based competition is put in the high seat. I only know farmers who grow at the thought. The focus has been on the fact that Norway has expensive food. This agreement provides an estimated price increase for food of the order 0,7 pst. In the last 12 months, consumer prices have decreased by 0.3 pst, while they have increased by 1.3 pst. in Sweden and 2.8 pst. magazines in Denmark. Since the beginning of the international commodity crisis in 2007, price growth in Sweden and Denmark has been almost twice as high as in Norway, measured in national currency, to be noted. And as we've heard here today, we like to compare with these countries. I'll finish as I started. In recent years, agricultural agreements have provided for an increase in the income of agricultural holdings. The district profile and the structural profile of budget support and investment instruments have been strengthened to help achieve the objectives of an agricultural policy that we want across the country. So it is that many of the agricultural policy instruments have a strong structural profile, for the benefit of smaller farms. Agriculture plays an important role in housing and employment in large parts of this beautiful country. The aim of this government is to maintain a living and diverse agriculture and sustainable forestry throughout the country. A lot of usages have gone down, even if it's flattened out a little bit. There are, in fact, many reasons for this, and it is worrying, but this government should and has had a great deal of focus on this challenge. It will be very demanding in the future, no one is hiding, but I am absolutely sure that it is this government's policy to ensure an agricultural industry that produces food throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4245	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4248	It is important to have an active agricultural policy that contributes to the maintenance of agriculture throughout the country. It's important for a lot of reasons. Of course, it's important because of food production, we need to ensure access to food for ourselves, and in a global perspective, we know that it's a huge challenge. It is important for employment, jobs, value creation across the country. It is important for housing purposes; it is important for district policy. It's important to take care of the cultural landscape, to create pleasure for us who live there, but also in relation to travel life. There would have been no sense in having a golden detour on India in the North Trøndelag if they had not had agriculture and cultural landscapes. The county I'm from, North Trondelag, is a very agricultural-dependent state. We're 3 pst. of the population of the country, but producing 11 pst. of the agricultural products. About 20 pst. the employment in the Nord-Trundellag is agriculturally dependent, either in the primary production or in the food industry. That is why it is clear that farming is also important for us in the Nord-Trøndelag. Nor is it accidental and unnatural that it was the Nord-Trøndelag Arbeiderparti that worked out the more offensive, agricultural policy statement that was adopted at the national meeting of the Workers' Party not long ago. We have seen a strengthening of agriculture in recent years. This is a wild red-green policy, and it's been well settled. This time I record that there are divided opinions in the industry as to whether the settlement of the year is good or not. Even I have received feedback that goes in both directions, and to that I would say two things: we had enough through the national meeting decisions of both the Workers' Party and other parties created great expectations, greater than what was possible in some areas. Nevertheless, it must be allowed to point out that the settlement with the red-green government in any case is better than it would have been if we had a Right and Advance Party government. When I hear the Progress Party talk about releasing the peasants, it strikes me that the reality of the agricultural policy of the Advance Party is that we will be free from the peasant in much of District Norway. We who come from parts of the country where predators are a major challenge to grazing, notice a lot of pressure from home, especially in these days. The expectation that there will be a new predator deal is great, and we're probably all still sitting here in the hall, and we're excited about what the result is. It's almost so I'd like to say what the county rapporteur in the North Trøndelag said on the county council in the North Trøndelag yesterday. He wanted to lock in the parliamentary leaders until they agreed on a new predatory settlement. Maybe we should – this is incredibly important for the grazing industry in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4259	I have noticed that the management of the Norwegian Bondelag was recently re-elected without candidates, with almost full support from the Bondelag. I take this as an expression of the fact that the members of the Farmers' Party and the elected representatives value the efforts of the management in this year's agricultural negotiations, even though there is a certain distance between demands and the results of the negotiations, and even if some people thought that the Farmers' Party should march out of the negotiating room with Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' Laws. In that case, we would have discussed a completely different settlement here today. Unlike the management of the Small User Team, the management of the Bond Team has realized that negotiating is profitable because it produces results, and that gives influence. Once the wave after the year's settlement has settled gradually, I believe that the farmers actually see that this year's agricultural settlement is a further step towards improving the framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture, and that farmers ensure income development in line with other professions in society. In my opinion, the small user team has been in a rather impossible situation without influence and influence. In the period 2006–2011, the farmer’s income has increased by a total of 53,8 pst. – i.e. more than twice as much as other groups in society. During the same period, the small user team has almost made it a habit to leave the negotiating table long before a negotiated result is on the table. Of course, it's their own choice, but I don't know if they fully understand that this helps to break down respect both for themselves and for farming. At the same time, however, they are taking credit for the Advancement Party and, in part, for the Right, which will bring the whole settlement to life. For if the relationship of strength between the parties at the 2013 elections becomes almost like today, the agricultural settlement will in fact be a story only in 2014. Then the two parties will leave to Stortinget to determine the farmer's income. The Right Party and the Progressive Party will not just conclude the negotiations. It's just a natural consequence that we wind up most of the agriculture and throw the farmer into the market. In that case, it'll be a fairly free fall. I think it is quite alarming that the two parties say that they are concerned in principle that individual industries negotiate their own framework conditions directly with the state and conclude agreements with great economic consequences outside the ordinary state budget. I had almost said: who else would negotiate the industry’s framework, if not the business community’s own organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4277	Agriculture is essential both for safe food production, for living rural areas, for the cultural landscape and for the existence of other industries, not least tourism and industry. I have recorded the signals from the industry on the agricultural settlement of the year, and I am glad that an agreement was negotiated this year as well, and that the dialogue with the industry is still good. However, I think we should remind ourselves of the signals we have now received from the industry in the course of the year's negotiations, because this is closely linked to the recruitment we depend on having to this important industry. The Soria Moria Declaration clearly states that we should have a varied agriculture and food production across the country. We cannot do this without having a common understanding of the reality of the industry here in Stortinget and the industry all over the country. I therefore look forward to the big picture that will come, on a forward-looking agricultural and food policy. Above all, industry across the country needs long-term sustainability in order to deliver what we expect. This I think it's just a red-green government and a red-green large-scale number that can get to. I am saying this because I also see today that there are several proposals from parts of the opposition that are completely incompatible with the objective of maintaining an agriculture throughout the country, and thus living settlements. I'm thinking about the two right parts here. An example is the proposal of the Progress Party not to approve the negotiated agreement and to deprive industry of the right to negotiate and instead to regard agricultural resources in the same way as other expenditure in the State budget. Is it this Progress Party that means to release the peasant? And is this what they think should develop a good nutrition across the country? The proposals of the Progress Party on dramatic changes and cuts in agricultural framework conditions have been repeated for all the years since I arrived at the Stortinge 14 years ago. I am very pleased that they have not reached their policy, and I hope that the voters will keep the right parties away from the government offices in time to come. Everyone understands that if we're going to have an agriculture all over Norway, it can't be managed by the market alone, as the Progress Party believes. These are localised enterprises that are affected both by topography and by climate. This is what I think most people in the country understand, but the Progress Party and someone else will not take over, as the representative of the Treldal has confirmed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4292	According to Eidsvoll Blad on 28 March this year, Vaaler Sam drift in Eidsvoll is the farm in the country that tops the list of production supplements last year, with 1.6 million. kr. The establishment operates organic milk production with an area basis of 2,800 deer, divided into five farms. The co-operation has top modern poultry with 110 cows and a milk quota of 750,000 litres per year. The operating surplus last year was a deficit of NOK 113 000, and because of large liabilities, the annual profit, before tax, ended with a minus of NOK 883 000. Vaaler Collaboration has nice people who will be farmers. Without investment aid from the State, private banks would not have financed the loan to the new poultry. Organic, which is a state objective, the feather is presented externally through the open yard, the operation is presented as a pride and is a model in the municipality – the financial results are completely different. There is a clear need for the authorities, represented in this room, to think new and thorough before going on and seducing even more young people into such capital-intensive corporate agriculture called co-operation. There is little to be gained from economies of scale in today's agriculture. On the contrary, in most parts of the country, there are economies of scale because of the location of the earth. It is the family-run farm that has the best socio-economic profitability, but the economy is weak for everyone. According to the agricultural total calculation, the remuneration of labour and equity per annual work for the last financial year, 2009, is NOK 178 521. The expansionary farmers rarely dare to tell about their economic situation. The usual, large family-run farms with milk are on their way out, and there is a poor future in taking a high risk of becoming debt addicts with poor disease security and low pensions when you can make money easily elsewhere. The total income of farmers' families is rising when the profitability of agriculture declines, because people are forced to take a job outside the farm to pay, among other things. liabilities of the farm. Total agricultural capital is budgeted for between 95 billion. kr and 132,4 brd. kr for 2011. Of these, the debt is 46.2 billion. kr. In agriculture, when the term ‘remuneration for work and equity per annual work’, which is compared to the income of employees per annual work, is used, the capital and reserves of the order of 48,8 billion. SEK-86,2 bn kr, depending on the calculation method, have no remuneration. That's the system now. Labour productivity doubled between 1990 and 2009, while the real income of farmers’ agricultural work combined in the same period was reduced by 7 pst. Such strong productivity growth ensures better and well-paid safe jobs in other professions. Agriculture has the right to negotiate with the State through the main agreement of 1950. In contractual negotiations with the State, economic income opportunities for self-employed farmers provide the outstanding weak economic figures in agriculture and show the long-standing lack of respect for agricultural work by the authorities. Recruitment is failing and the area in operation is being reduced. The whole agricultural contract system needs to be reviewed and a realistic picture of income in agriculture – absolute and in relation to employees. This will enable a common sense of reality to be established, which is a prerequisite for a substantive discussion of the objectives and instruments of the new agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4310	Producing food is the world's most important job. Increasing food prices globally, e.coli scandals and unrest in many countries show that food is not a matter of course. Food security is therefore high on the international agenda. In the view of the Centre Party, as a country, we have a joint obligation to produce more food for our own people. Ensuring clean and safe food for its own population must be the main objective of agriculture. The level of self-sufficiency therefore needs to rise, and with the population growth we know, we need to pursue a policy that ensures a significant increase in food production at home based on local resources. A prerequisite for increased food production and nutrition recruitment are improved income opportunities and increased profitability. This year's agricultural settlement with a frame of 1.42 billion. kr facilitates it. As a representative from Uppland, I am particularly pleased with the focus on grass-based agriculture. At the same time, it is evident that the Centre Party has ambitions on behalf of agriculture. We want an income development that closes the gap to other groups measured in dollars. There has been enormous structuralisation in agriculture in recent years. Based on the goals we have for agriculture and the global situation, I think it is challenging whether this continues with the same force. Increased food production based on local resources will mean the need for both increased area and more hands at work. We must be willing to think again, so that we can achieve the objectives we have for agricultural policy. I've been to some agricultural schools lately, and I'm impressed by reflective and offensive students with clear plans for the future and the desire for a life in agriculture. They educate themselves as food producers, but I still think there's something about farmers being nothing you're going to be, that's something you are. If we are to ensure an offensive and powerful agricultural industry in the future, we must pursue a policy that gives more young people the desire to invest. The agricultural settlement of the year contributes to this, and through the forthcoming agricultural communication, we must deliver an offensive, forward-looking and predictable agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4323	I'm up behind a lion's door, and some think I should be there yet. I've had my whole crop in agriculture. I work in the meat cooperative for several years, and I have seen and experienced all of the agriculture on the inside. For this reason, it is clear to the right that the representative Lundtigen, unlike everyone else, actually tells us how the situation in Norwegian agriculture is being experienced today. It's disturbing to me that the red-green parties here shame the situation you have in Norwegian agriculture. What we know is that the number of active use is falling, the number of full-time farmers is falling, while the number of bureaucrats in agriculture is rising. Nevertheless, the government party is very happy with the situation you see! Agriculture has given me a lot of joy, and then it has led me to ask a lot of questions about how we actually organize. At home in More and Romesdal, we had, for example, a case in which five farmers would be able to manage and develop a common co-operation for poultry and egg production. They wanted to assemble the fertiliser treatment plant and the egg production equipment so that they could operate as efficiently as possible. The answer was that the concession law denied it, they had to build five separate operating units instead. So now it's on a large agricultural area five separate buildings that have a drive of 7,500 hens a quarter. That's the happy madness! Everyone thought it was crazy. Nevertheless, the government party does not use the potential they actually have, through agricultural policy – when you choose to keep it – to influence it in a direction that makes it possible to bet for the future. Those of me who continue to bet on agriculture today are forced to swallow something less — if not, they have no basis for betting. That's what's out there in District Norway. The point is that when one is primarily busy subsidising the smallest producers and does not facilitate the fact that the farmers who want to bet actually have the basis a few years in advance to know what kind of basis they have to invest on, one does not achieve what is needed to convert agriculture. There is a need to convert agriculture. That's why I hope that the government party will at least start to listen more to what Per Olaf Lundtegen said at the end of the day, instead of continuing to draw a picture of agriculture that doesn't exist at all out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4336	Unfortunately, the left does not sit in the business committee, so we have to deal with the proposals that have already been submitted, and we support the minority proposals that are in place – as I explained from the Chair instead – and that will lead to the necessary structural changes, as the Left sees it. I will not extend the debate – it will be a late evening. But the reason I took the floor is that it is actually wrong what the Council of State, Breck, said that it was former Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim who introduced the negotiations as they are now. The negotiations were initiated long before he became Minister of Agriculture, I have been informed. But when that is said, I would say that it must not be that new forces on the Storting cannot bring about a new policy – if that is wise. Many responded in this way this year to the agricultural negotiations. I have received many feedback that it did not feel like real negotiations, just correspondence and so suddenly agreement. There are signals I have received, and I wanted to communicate to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4343	The head of the Industry Committee says in his speech that he only hears good noise when he's out traveling and talking to agriculture. No one has any objections to the policy being pursued, no one wants to change. I recommend the committee leader to talk to Per Olaf Lundtigen – he's sitting over there, it's not the long way, and we've just heard his post – then he'll hear about another reality. I don't think anyone has any patents on the truth of a complicated agricultural policy. It's probably a little bit in the middle. That's exactly why I believe in the Right Policy of taking on the existing. We are also at the targets set by the Committee in its opening remarks, but we want changes, because we have seen something of the same thing that Per Olaf Lundtigen hears even stronger, that it is very much that does not work, and that it is the task of the politicians to address this. No, that's right, there's no one waiting outside my office door to sign up to the Right because of agricultural policy. But I don't think there's any line in the committee chair of the nutrition committee either. I think we can talk to those who are in the house here, and once again I recommend Lundtigen. I think the representative of Aasland is wise not to hide from reality, because there's a reality out there that we have to take over. Then I also have to make a visit to the representative Heggø, who has clearly been annoyed that the opposition is calling for the long-awaited agricultural message. Her defense is to attack the Right for not having delivered their alternative agricultural message – alternatives to what? To a message that hasn't arrived, that we don't know when to come, that we don't know what's in it, that you're smoking in disagreement about the basis for. It's just to listen to the beauty painting of the representative Aasland, and I don't want to say the black paint of Per Olaf Lundtigen, but I'll say the realistic piece that he kept about the condition. Let's be realists. Changes are needed. I think the Council of State should still – it seems as if he has a good time with the message – receive all good advice with thanks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4356	I am pleased that the representative Svein Flätten in his main post said that it is important not to talk the industry down – he should. It stands in stark contrast to the representative Torgeir Tjældal's posts. Then I want to tell the representative Jon Georg Dale – I actually said it in my post – that there are demanding challenges in agriculture. Furthermore, I would like to point out that in one of its comments, the Progress Party refers to the opinion of the Fisheries and Aquaculture industry to the NRK on 7 June 2010 that market access for Norwegian fish to the EU will be significantly lower after the introduction of a percentage duty on drinking milk. Now we have the facts, and that is that the percentage of milk – as we have the full opportunity to do under the WTO agreement – has not had any negative effects on Norwegian fish exports or other industries. This is therefore a very good example of unrooted propaganda in reality, which the Progress Party and some other social actors often stand for in the agricultural debate. So to the import protection. The protection of imports is, and will continue to be, a pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy. Import protection is a prerequisite for: to maintain production and ensure the provision of Norwegian agricultural products to ensure the level of income for agriculture; It can be illustrated by the milk prices in some selected countries, for example: Germany kr 2.55 per kg, Denmark kr 2.66 per kg, UK kr 2.17 per kg. If milk duties are removed, there will be a large import of milk from our neighbouring country, unless Norwegian prices are drastically reduced. Price reductions will in turn directly affect the income of Norwegian dairy farms and lead to dramatic reductions in consumption. Similarly, in the meat sector as a whole, customs duties on meat products will be removed. The meat prices of Norwegian farmers are much higher than in the EU and on the world market, and the loss of customs duties will lead to a dramatic increase in imports and correspondingly reduced Norwegian production. The loss of customs duties will affect both the farmer as a commodity producer and the food industry. Loss of import protection will lead to a dramatic reduction in Norwegian agriculture and the food industry, particularly in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4387	I have been sitting and joining in today’s debate – which has gone a little further than I really thought it would – and I feel that, in principle, there is a fairly large consensus that food production is important, that we are going to have agriculture across the country, and that it is going to be profitable to farm. But then the consensus begins to scramble. There has been a lot of energy to talk about how poor the counterparty's agricultural policy is. The red-greens make a powerful point that they've reversed development. I'm not sure. Something's probably turned around, but something's going on in the same path as it's been in Norway for a long, long time. There is a scare-mongering propaganda about what is happening about the Right – and perhaps in particular the Advance Party – should come to power once. It's not quite unlikely, so it might be worth thinking thoroughly about that situation. Now it has to be admitted that neither for the Right is it easy to find the most optimal solution for agriculture in Norway, we have to say. In an 1898 Almanac, they wrote that it is difficult to achieve profitability in agriculture in Norway, as it is a long-distance country, with a long winter and scattered settlement. Yes, nothing is new under the sun – that is what we have today as well. When Terje Aasland says that he has never met anyone who has said anything positive about Higher Agricultural Policy, I have to say that it is contrary to what I have heard. But now I might have a little more time with this industry than Aasland has, because I live in the middle of an agricultural district and I am myself a farmer. Svein Flätten strongly expressed what we in the Right might want to do in agricultural policy. He said that no one who is involved in agriculture, knocks on his door to become a member of the Right. Then I can verify the opposite. There are many farmers who have come to me and said that now we will be in the Right, because that makes it possible to live on agriculture. Lundtigen has been ahead today and said it is not that good. No, that's not it. That's right. He started from a dairy farm that did not go with profitability. There are many of them that don't go with profitability, but it's because the government takes the rationalization gain. And then it's produced by use that has something smaller, and that falls away in a few years at least. What I was told when I was on my way to Lierne and Røyrvik not long ago – there are large agricultural communities both – was that the predatory problem is the worst they have, and secondly, it was the bureaucracy, which is terribly difficult and makes agriculture heavy. I have suggested that maybe we should think about other jobs, in addition to agriculture, in rural areas, just to get a living agriculture. So good luck with agricultural policy in the future!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4408	I am pleased with the willingness to think new, to establish a common sense of reality, which is the first basis for discussing the objectives and means of a new agricultural policy. I'm happy for what's said about realism, happy for what's shown, that someone wants to have increased knowledge. And I would say that there is a changed atmosphere in this room in the discussion on agricultural policy. I appreciate that – at least a certain changed atmosphere. The batches of the Right and Advance Party have little confidence among farmers. It's a bad brand, it has a well-known sail too. And I have to say that if you're going to go into realism when you have your own comment where you say that you're going to stimulate further co-operation of milk production, I'm asking that a thinker carefully through it, because the whole co-operative construction is a construction that turns out to be poorly functioning economically. I would like to say that there is a separate debate on whether we are going to have family farming in the future, or whether we are going to have co-farming based on company agriculture. I am delighted with the debate on the content of this, because it will show that the family-run agriculture is completely superior in terms of ensuring social, ecological and economic sustainability. What is one of the major challenges is the need to improve food security and the ability to supply water in agricultural production. Agriculture is the use of land. So we need to use more land in Norway to ensure the degree of maritime supply. In our mixed economy, we should in future facilitate that there are prices to ensure the quantities. This does not give us such stories as Vaaler Sam drifting, which are given enormous appropriations over the state budget. As a result, they can have far more revenues on the market and the enormous budgetary allocations can go to those groups of users who do not have large production and who have more difficult conditions. Furthermore, it is no longer useful to talk about ensuring the cultural landscape and the operation of the whole country, if it is even on the Jären that it is more expensive to produce grass to produce milk than to buy imported power feed. When the price of power feed is such that the cheapest one can use is power feed, uses a lot of it. Thus, a smaller grass uses – and the land grows again. There are simple professional economic contexts that apply. With regard to future investments, we must avoid the fact that there are large state-subsidized investments that need to be economically viable in the short term. It must be an operating economy that ensures investment in agriculture, as it is in other industries. That is the core of some of the principles of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4425	It has been part of what I will allow myself to call double communication, in the debate here today. I want to pick up one of those points, which I thought were very bad, and I want to figure out where the bourgeois parties are. All opposition parties have written or said in some way that they are against the uncontrolled structural development, but there they stop. We do not know, from either the Christian People's Party, the Left or the Right, what kind of controlled structural development they want. Do they want a structural development at the same level as the Progress Party wants, which really means depopulation of the districts? What kind of structural development are they looking for? Do they want a centralization that means that there is one garden left in the building, and then it becomes so lonely that even he or she has to move? I thought it was by criticizing the uncontrolled structural development without daring to say what kind of structural development one would like to see, it's a filth that's conscious enough to cover the big gap that's on the opposition's side. When it comes to double communication, I can't mention the post from the representative of Dale. On the one hand, he had a strong argument for co-operation. On the other hand, he hailed the representative Lundteg, who, to the degree, argued against co-operation. So when the Progress Party is able to have such a clear double communication in one piece, I look forward to the agricultural policy they will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4440	The centre party is committed to having a living agriculture throughout the country, and we will continue to invest in agriculture. We want to go on in the bet that we're doing now, and we want to strengthen it. There should be no doubt about that. That means we have to use the possibilities we have to produce food on the areas we have. Once again, the party promoting the proposal to grant the manufacturer the so-called freedom of nutrition. Wake up with political involvement, have the market settled, and let the farmer have the freedom to produce and be self-employed as other traders, says the Progress Party. Yeah, then there's really reason to ask some basic questions. Who is to be given the freedom of nutrition by removing the contract work? What Norwegian farmers serve to ensure that it is not an agreement that obliges farmers? Are we going to have gardeners knocking grass on the West, in the mountains and in North Norway, or are we going to have to produce grazing animals? Several places in the West do not pay for grazing unless it is compensated for the disadvantage of producing where the area is more inaccessible. Therefore, we need to address these challenges in the formulation of agricultural policy, and remember that Norway produces food on a very marginal area compared to other countries. When, in its proposals, the Progress Party will abandon agricultural negotiations and thus release the market, it means that it will only be the large producers in the East, in the Jären and possibly in Trundellag that could have a production that can survive – well to notice far larger areas than today’s use, although there will also be restrictions on geography here. This is a policy of the Center Party and the red-greens do not agree, and strongly distance. Today’s market organisations help to provide stable, predictable prices for both farmers and consumers. Without regulation, prices will vary significantly. It is neither the producer nor the consumer earned. Unstable prices and hence income will affect agricultural risk assessments and investment intentions. Industry can move production sites, and sometimes they do. It can't be agriculture. The earth lies where it lies, and it must be exploited to provide food for its own people. This is about food security, and it's a right and a duty for a nation to provide food for its own people. That is why, in the Central Party, we believe that we need to be as self-sufficient in agricultural products that can be produced here to land, based on Norwegian resources. Agriculture and food production are not an industry comparable to other industries in this country. It's so simple, but it's also so difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4457	I want to comment on some statements that have come up here. Agriculture Minister Breck said that when we said that it was the consumer who had to take the bill, that was not right. Then I would recommend – had I almost said – to read what was in the VG Tuesday, May 17th: ‘You have to pay NOK 3200 more’ It's for every family. And it says: Entrecôte: «Was 80 pst. more expensive than in Europe. Now it's even more expensive." Sausage: «Be 80 pst. more expensive than in Europe. Now it's even more expensive." Bread: «Be 60 pst. more expensive than in Europe. Now it's even more expensive." Milk: «Was 54 pst. more expensive than in Europe. Now it's even more expensive." Cheese: ‘Was 54 pst. more expensive than in Europe. Now it's even more expensive." Is: «Was 54 pst. more expensive than in Europe. Now it's even more expensive." That's what we can do. When state councillor Breck and committee chairman Terje Aasland say that there has not been an increase, you might want to take reality a little bit into consideration. When you also look at Rema 1000 in Denmark, the prices are 40 pst. lower there. These are the same goods that are sold, but the goods are more expensive in Norway, where they come from, among others. because of the policy in place. Some people are also very concerned about the predatory settlement. I don't understand what's the problem with predators. The government has a majority, so why don't you take it right away? There's so much fighting inside the government. It is not possible to cooperate; there are major cooperation problems. This is also seen in the communication on agriculture. Terje Aasland made the claim that the policy of the Progress Party would eliminate Norwegian agriculture. Then I have to say to Terje Aasland: Norway is the only country in the whole EEA area that has this type of agriculture. Europe has made deregulations. If you go to New Zealand, they have deregulations. They also have a 2 pst aid scheme. from the public, while Norway has 66 pst. There they have increased exports, so it's over 60 pst. I also want to give honey to Lundtegen. When we are not in government and can have the Minister of Agriculture, I think it would have been great if Lundtigen could have been, because Lundtigen has said it as it is. He says straight away that you are ‘misleading’ young people into co-operation. He also confirms that profitability goes down. In other words, he confirms that the policy has been misplaced. Lundtigen has understood. I would also like to point out that it is. Then it's a little funny with Lillian Hansen. She said the milk is getting cheaper, and the food is getting ‘dramatic’ cheaper. Yeah, that's great! Consumers will be happy, and there will be less border trade. That's how we want it. Then they say that there are no farmers in the Progress Party. Well, we actually have three farmers in the big group, so we're maybe the biggest peasant party in the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4496	I would like to comment on some of the recordings that have been made. To Holmelid and structuring: when you describe a reality and then something completely different happens, you have to ask yourself, as a politician, if you are satisfied with what the state is like. In fact, the right doesn't think it can be like driving and painting a picture that's not there, and then something completely different happens out there. That's what we want to tackle. So it was the representative Bratli of the Nord-Trøndelag who was exemplaryly nuanced when she mentioned her meeting with farmers, because she had thus met with nutritionists in agriculture who had different perceptions of the red-green agricultural policy. It is in stark contrast to the desert migration that the representative of Aasland must have been on. It must have been a lonely trip. If it is true that only farmers who are satisfied with the red-green agricultural policy have been met, he has not taken many. We've also been out on the road, and we've met a lot of people who aren't so religiously convinced that it's right. There have been some recordings of the agri-tourism combination. Then we should remember that part of today's fiscal policy is actually not in the best interests of that combination. Both property taxes, inheritance taxes and property taxes are a type of tax that does not take into account profit or loss. The travel projects in combination with agriculture that we have in the country are very often large projects of hard work where it is not very profitable, so this type of tax is directly harmful to the effort that the red-greens bring forward as very exemplary, and like what is going to save the districts. It is most likely to contribute to job losses in districts as well. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about agriculture. If a diet is to be attractive, it must be that young people look a way into a diet, but at the same time it is that young people depend on looking a way out of the industry too, because things can change along the way. As agricultural policy is presented today, agriculture does not, in fact, appear to be an industry in which it is possible to enter and go out of business. That's a little bit of a problem. Therefore, poor recruitment to agriculture this year. Therefore, poor recruitment to agriculture in Norway. That's why we don't get young people into agriculture. Agricultural policy must do something about that. I do not register anything at the red-green preliminary that suggests that we are on the right track. It'll be exciting with an agricultural message, if it ever comes. I think the grips have to get there, but so far we haven't seen anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4512	I have been following this debate from the office desk with increasing interest. It is not so easy to deal with people who are outside the agricultural family, because here the representatives are fighting to pay tribute to agriculture. In this respect, it seems to be a harmonious agreement that agriculture in Norway is something we want more of — and in all possible ways. All in all, it is clear that everyone who has spoken in the debate will do well for agriculture and all farmers. The disagreement appears primarily to be linked to the facts on the ground and the current situation. My starting point is that we've got a settlement that's impressively good, given the situation we're in, not least if we brief ourselves a little bit about what's the situation in other countries. At the same time, it is not good enough in relation to our offensive objectives and ambitions in terms of increasing sea level and in terms of reducing or stopping the decline in the number of farmers, in terms of maintaining a good structure and rural profile, etc. In this way, among other things: The representative, Lundteg, has a good point. But then it becomes very strange for me that SVs listen to representatives of the opposition, among other things. the right party, which seems to be actually the most offensive party. They want to take the red-green policy and fill it with something more, so that Norwegian agriculture gets stronger. Then it was a matter of hearing well after, I found out later, e.g. when Lars Myraune uses most of his contribution to signal that he wants more agriculture and stronger agricultural activity. Myraune, first of all, says that it is important that we in the agricultural policy in the future give less to those who ‘fall away in a few years at least’ – that is, that there is too much resources today and too much attention to many farmers that we know in the long term that we will get rid of in the industry. Secondly, Myraune says in his speech that part of the money now spent by the public should go to other businesses — i.e. less to agriculture. Two clear statements that show that the Right will less agricultural bet than the red-green!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4525	There is one perspective that I think has been very lost in the debate, and that is the values that agriculture creates around the whole of Norway, because agriculture is the basis of a great industry, namely the food industry. The food industry, which has its base in Norwegian agricultural products, has 40,000 employees – only the production value is 113 billion. kr. If you take a pass and hit a radius five miles around where I live, in the bar, there are over 2,000 employees in the food industry. It is a huge industry in large parts of the country, which contributes to growth and development, innovation and value creation, and interesting jobs. I think it's a little strange that no more of the parties who have spoken have been involved in that part of agricultural policy, that having a national agricultural policy is the basis for having a living and good food industry around the whole of Norway. If part of the measures described here by both the Right and the Advance Party are implemented, there will be a number of lower national agricultural production and food production, and the food industry will lose its foundation. The Norwegian food industry is totally dependent on the fact that we have a national customs policy in which we dare to protect the Norwegian food market and provide good framework conditions. It depends entirely on our willingness and budgetary resources to produce around the whole of Norway, so that we have a varied food industry in different places. In connection with this agricultural settlement, we have taken an important step. We have removed the food production fee. In addition to customs, which we are willing to use, as well as budgetary resources that we are willing to use, we are also willing to use fiscal instruments to stimulate the Norwegian food industry, and indirectly Norwegian agriculture. If we take the slaughterhouse that is closest to where I live – at Rudhögda – it is approx. $13 million. kr has been saved because the government has now announced that it wants to remove the food production fee. It is a significant grip, and it is a significant tax haven for a food industry that has spread throughout Norway. That's just what I thought was missing, and I just wanted to take it with me. Norwegian agriculture means too many, and not least for us to have the country in which we are all so happy. And then finally, I just want to say one thing, and that's a fact: if we sum up the six agricultural operations that the red-green government has presented, the sum is going to be 7.8 billion. kr. If one sums up the six agricultural operations that were before the red-green government came, the sum is minus 48 million. kr. There has been a change of pace with a clear and completely new direction, and there is a completely different willingness to use political instruments. In today's debate we have also noticed that the Right and the Progress Party's prescription is cut and lower customs duties. It doesn't create growth, and it doesn't create development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4542	I would like to start by saying that I think there has been an interesting debate so far – a wide-ranging debate with many different posts that shows a great deal of clear differences between the different parties, and not least between the government options. I want to say it so that there are quite a number of challenges in this fantastic agriculture that we are concerned about, but at least they do not meet with forward-looking party policy. Let me just take a few points that are important. Torgeir Tåldal refers to the newspaper VG, which wrote on 17 May that costs increased by NOK 3 200. Then I just wanted to show that VG fixed it a few days later, and wrote that the price increase that the individual received was NOK 320. So if the representative Treldal hasn't brought it, he should at least take a look at it. So to the representative Tenden, who mentions that former Minister of Agriculture Sponheim did not change the system. It's wrong. He followed correctly the system that was established in 1950, but he changed the system during his time, as I also underlined. It was also the case under Sponheim that subsidies were given to the fur animal industry — so that it is also pointed out. We get a lot of stories about the situation in the industry, and I'm going to say nothing but that in many cases there are many who have challenges. The ones we're talking about are self-employed. Many are highly skilled and get good results with limited resources, but it is also them – like in other industries – that do not manage to exploit the resources they have to achieve the same good results. We see very large differences in economic results between seemingly very similar uses, and that of course means that there is a lot to get by doing things better in the industry – working better and using knowledge better. The authorities cannot assume responsibility for this. It's the independent farmer's own responsibility to do it. I would like to stress that when we now get everything from doomsday descriptions to gloss picture descriptions of this industry, I believe that the situation is something in between. But what is undeniable is that, as the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum said, we have changed the direction of Norwegian agricultural policy since we became a government. We've changed the device, and we've not least significantly improved the income possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4555	SV’s representative, Alf Holmelid, challenged the Christian People’s Party on ‘structure development’. The Christian People's Party writes in its comments that the purpose of the agricultural aid is to maintain the pattern of housing, and that is to provide us with good and safe food – i.e. a living agriculture throughout the country. That's why the challenge that was given was surprising. In the setting we read that areas of scattered settlement have a decline in employment of over 40 pst. This shows that the government’s objective of maintaining rural agriculture has not been achieved. That's why the Christian People's Party is committed to improving the mechanism of the instruments, so that we get a living agriculture in the districts as well. And then, in addition to agricultural aid – such as the removal of wealth taxes on working capital, depreciation rates, the gradual removal of inheritance taxes, etc. – and an entrepreneurial income that does not decrease but increases – are important for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4564	This debate is part of the tradition – there is a traditional debate on the agricultural agreement. But it also reveals one thing, and there is great reason to expect the Stortinget to receive treatment for a new farm and food report. That is what is needed, that is what is being discussed here. And then it's actually like this: I haven't said that it's just going to be the praiseworthy mention of the red-green policy in the case of Norwegian agriculture. I didn't say that. But what I said was that in the time I have been silent and engaged in agricultural policy – and I have met many in the industry – I have not heard one representative who has stood up and wished for the response of the Right Party and the Progress Party to the agricultural policy of the future – not one. The debate here also reveals the unclear position of the members of the Group of the Progressive Democrats' own members on Norwegian agricultural policy, for what they say is that they want both-and-and-a-half. They will have a free, regulated agriculture where the market is to govern, but at the same time a strong state support for e.g. cooperatives, as we heard earlier today. That's kind of weird. So I look forward to the discussion when we get the agricultural message for treatment. That's when we have to expect the opposition to be able to respond to the choices they're actually taking. That's when I wonder how the Progress Party's policy is going to go together for Norwegian agriculture, when they say that deregulating and leaving it to the market will increase production in Norway. How will they do that? When I hear that the Progress Party compares Norwegian agriculture with agriculture in many other countries in the world, I wonder how they look at Norway in terms of geography, topography and climate, and what basis they have for the comparison they draw up in this debate. It's far from a real comparison. So I think it's important to stress -- I also think it comes out through the debate, and I said it in my speech -- that most of those who are in the industry, who have faith in the future, see great values in what they are doing, and they have a high degree of professional pride. Much of the opposition lacks a view of Norwegian farmers. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4575	I have followed the debate on the negotiations quite carefully. I think it's a bit touching on the concern of the Progress Party. You're against farmers, but for fur animals and chickens. It'll be almost like Dagbladet, who's against priests, but very for female priests. I also think it is in the presence of the representative Nesvik, where there was a touching concern for the poor in Africa. It is only visible every time we discuss agriculture. There are divided opinions on how agricultural production has been accepted, what conditions, what requirements are being met. That the committee has gone through in a very good way, so I'm not going to go into the details of this. But it is also a great disappointment for many. From the point of view of Agder, it is good that dairy farming is a priority, that cereals came strengthened out of the negotiations, and that it was decided to remove the food production fee and rather increase the target prices. But I believe that the reason why this settlement was not as well received by the peasants as the Council of State Breck and others had hoped, is closely linked to the expectation that now there would be a belief in the future in agriculture. The expectations that were created were not met. Agriculture is facing a generational shift. They have investment needs. How large it is has been discussed today, but that there is an investment need is clear. Some believe that there has been an evenly loud call from the farmers, so that the wholesalers no longer hear it. I hear a rather quiet warning. What happens when the last farmer locks the door in the village? Then I think there are many who are going to have an aha experience: we needed these to be a life force in our towns. So I think the disappointment here is that this didn't give a big enough boost to young people who really want to bet on agriculture, to get confidence in the future, to get an investment will and to create the recruitment that Norwegian agriculture needs. It is a shared responsibility for us who want living settlements, and perhaps now it hears the silent warner saying that somewhere the last farmer is going to lock the door, and then it might happen that we regret.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4586	The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4589	First, to the representative, Battle Violence Vedum, who tries to rise above the common cluster in his post here, saying that no one is interested in either the food industry or Norwegian production for the food industry. Had he come a little earlier, he had heard that the Right touched it in his post. Then I want to say to the representative Holmelid, who challenges the opposition on what kind of structure you want. It is clear from a note from the government parties that there is concern about the structural development with which there is no plan or control, and that the agricultural message that we do not receive must deal with it. But instead you choose to challenge the opposition to the solutions. Finally, the representative of Aasland, whom I now perceive, has done nothing but repeat his message twice. There's a lot of people out there who have different opinions. Had e.g. The representative would have heard considerable nuances from those in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4598	The representative Lillian Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4601	If there's something I don't like, there's someone putting words in my mouth that I haven't said. That is why the representative, Mr Träldal, should ensure the quality of what he says, because that was not right. I didn't say it would be cheaper food. The fact that the representative Treldal did not get it with him will not be my problem. Animal food as compared to the EU: in Norway, we use approx. 10 pst. of the income for food. In the EU, the percentage is significantly higher. But there are also big differences. So it's getting a little bit too light as the Träldal makes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4606	There is no doubt that this year's agricultural policy was a very good agricultural policy. Some ask questions as to whether it was good enough. No, it will hardly ever be in relation to the ambitions we have for Norwegian agriculture. But it was a good guess that goes into the line of many good statements that have been after the red-green government took over. We have presented these figures during the debate here, which clearly show this. Then there are some people who have pointed out that the farmers are not happy, and some talk about the last farmer locking the door and leaving the village, and then first discovering a value in agriculture. In fact, this is not an ordinary paycheck. It is not such that the state can guarantee the farmer a certain income. But it is our task, which will have a living agriculture, to facilitate that it is possible through good and active operation to create a good way of life for agriculture. That is why it is very wrong for this one-sided — I would almost say the black measurement of the situation in Norwegian agriculture — to deprave Norwegian agriculture. On the contrary, we should rather talk up agriculture, get up the optimism and the give-up to get the most out of the framework conditions that lie there. We obviously have more objectives for agriculture, but above all it is that there should be food production, that we should be as self-sufficient in this country as possible. Had I been a farmer, I would have had the most focus on it in my argument, because that's what kind of gives self-esteem and pride of a driving production of perhaps the most important product that can be produced in this country. In addition, we have other intermediate objectives, namely that we should use agriculture as a district policy tool to maintain living areas, cultural landscapes, etc. That is why the turn that has taken place in agriculture is now, very important, simply that one has given priority to rural agriculture, grass-based agriculture, milk production, etc., as it has been. I believe that agriculture has a future ahead. Obviously, there will not be as many future employment in agriculture as it has been in the past. It's also a development year if second, unfortunately, can say. At the same time, however, there is a result of technological developments in agriculture, on the same lines as all other industries. But as has been pointed out earlier in the debate: it generates so much other activity, especially in the food industry, that agriculture is absolutely worth calling in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4618	For agriculture, there are probably conversations that have been going on in rooms other than this, which have been significantly more important than the discussion we have had. You'll have to come back to that on a later occasion. So you'll see. The representative Dagrun Eriksen was here and wanted to teach us a little bit about the Progress Party and how one looks at agriculture, and what is there. I can assure you that with the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, there will be many farmers in Norway. But it's going to be farmers who have changed. It's going to be an agriculture that will produce a lot of food, and you'll get good conditions for the production you're going to have. Today, under the leadership of the Centre Party in the Ministry of Agriculture, Norway has never had fewer farmers. We've never had fewer farmers. We have never produced more food than we do today. That is, with fewer farmers, as it is going to be in the future, we are also going to have a development in agriculture. We're going to produce more food, because technology and opportunities are going to make it possible. However, we cannot support the fact that today's debate has been marked by the fact that the government has not yet been able to deliver the agricultural message they themselves said they would deliver before the summer. That's what the debate is about, because there have been no visions from the Council of State, from the Red-Greens, telling us what agriculture will be like in the future. What we've been presented both through agriculture and through the debate, including the red-green side, is that they're excited to see what comes from the government. It must be quite frustrating. One thing is that it's frustrating for us as opposition not to see any result from the government. But it must be much worse for those who sit in position, and who don't know what's coming. Because that must be the reality, when we listen to the representatives of the red-green parties here who say they're waiting to see what's coming from the government. I really hope that you will at least be allowed to make representations to the government about the policy to be promoted. The chairman of the committee, Terje Aasland, was concerned that he had never met a farmer who asked for the policy of the Progress Party and the Right. Yes, I've met many of them. But it is possible that the representative of Aasland governs away from the places that you want to change, where you want more freedom, where you actually have faith in a market. When the fisheries agreements were removed and the subsidies were removed from the fishing industry, it was also a jam and complaint that now it really went wrong. No, let agriculture learn from the fishing industry, so we're going a step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4631	When we turned red-green from crowns to percentage in last year's agriculture, one also called from this speaker chair from the right side: wolf, wolf! There was no way how dramatic this was for Norway's relationship with Europe and the world else. After all, we see that we were completely right in red-green. This did not result in any diplomatic, dramatic or great sanctions against our country. Today it is called "wolf, wolf" because the agricultural message will probably lead to a government change if ever it comes. It's not long since a warning "wolf, wolf" was due to oil extraction in the north, because then it was the problem. So we experience that the Progress Party claims that taking away over 7 billion. kr – I repeat: 7 billion. kr – from agriculture to lower prices! And they're concerned that cultural landscape care is going to be improved. With all due respect, this policy does not actually hang together. In any case, the representative Dale from the Progress Party was honest enough to say that the small ones should be used away with the policies of the Progress Party – they are occupied by the big ones. I must have a little visit to the agent Fleet too. For the Right, suddenly a self-contained agricultural message clarifying the Right’s position shall no longer be delivered. To this end, it is only to note that Right does not know and will not say whether they are in favour of or against milk quotas, whether they are in favour of or against reception obligations, or whether they are in favour of or against channelling policies, until the government has made its observations in the form of an agricultural message. No, we find that the Right has actually turned 180 degrees, and they're going to have a counter-message to what the government comes with, and no longer an independent agricultural message. Surprised? No, not from that edge. But it's interesting to bring it with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4648	The representative Alf Egil Holmelid has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4651	Mi small challenge of structure has led to the following clarification: the Progress Party will have more centralization, the Christian People's Party will have less centralization, and the Right will, according to the Fleet, not mean anything about it, in line with its new line of laying a little low in such difficult matters. So it's going to be exciting to see what the meat weight is finally going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4656	The representative Torgeir Tåldal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4659	A few comments to articles. First to Lillian Hansen, who believes that I have put some words in her mouth, that she is talking about cheap food. The representative Hansen stood and read out milk prices that could reach 2,15 kroner and 2,30 kroner, but it is clear that in Lillian Hansen's and the Workers' Party's world is not milk food. So it's good to register. So to committee leader Terje Aasland, and also to Heggo, who says we're talking about different policies, because Dale had said something about co-operation. If they had heard what Dale said about the co-operation, they would have heard that he said that when you have such regulations and rules, it does, among other things. that you cannot be more than five owners of a joint venture. You also have rigid rules that tell you how many liters of milk you get. Dale said the exact same thing as we: we want to release the farmer. We want to let the farmer do it. If a baker is going to bake bread and he just gets to sell ten breads, he can't live off it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4666	It is my utmost intention to extend the debate, and it is of necessity. When the representative Heggø attacks the Right that we have clearly changed our mind about the agricultural notification, it is time that we corrected a little. The right has been talking about an alternative agricultural message since we started working with it well over a year ago – an alternative agricultural message that should be an alternative to the message that the government has notified them once. Then I understand that you wear out in the government parties, you don't agree on what to say in that message. That's why it's not coming. But it's kind of creepy that you're going to start biting right so we don't want to deliver. We've said that the intention of our alternative agricultural message is to give answers to the years of attacks, that we kiss, but will not tell what will be the result of our cuts. We need to provide an alternative agricultural message that corresponds to the message that the government comes with. After all, we've only asked the industry and the other actors to get the government parties ready and get out with the document, so that you can create a good policy that tells the industry a direction, and so that others can describe a policy that might explain a different direction. I think that is what agriculture wants. I think that's what the agricultural actors want, and I'm absolutely sure that farmers in agriculture are not satisfied with the amount we're now registering from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4675	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4678	The Progress Party wants a debate and wants to find its alternative. The representative of Harald T. Nesvik from More and Romsdal knows farmers who want to bet on the Advance Party, and what is then my outstretched hand here is that we can continue the debate anywhere in the country, anytime this summer. I'm going to be happy to sit down for discussion with the Progress Party, and he gets as many farmers together as one finds it possible to get, whether it's one or 100, we set up, and then we can debate, and then we keep going, and then we see who has the best arguments, and who's doing the best thing to create the greatest trust in the people who want to put time and energy on it to produce the most important thing, namely our food.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4683	Irene Lange Nordahl has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4686	The Progress Party will frustrate agriculture with its proposals. It does not help with conversion aid, as proposed by the Progress Party, if the basis for agriculture in Norway is gone. The Right Party and the Advance Party have taken the aim of ruling together, possibly in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. This coalition, in the event of their being given power, will lead to a race of closures in the districts. This is agriculture aware of. That is why a red-green government must ensure that a forward-looking agricultural policy is established in the new agricultural communication. This country is aware of. This is a major theme across the country. That is why we need to arrive at an agricultural message that also creates optimism and confidence in the future in the country, and that is what this red-green government is going to do. Another government will result in a completely different result for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4694	I will try to end my contributions to this debate today. As I said, it has been everything from doomsday prophecies to glossy paint in this discussion. I think that reality is in the middle, as I also said in my previous post. We're using over 13 billion. kr over the state budget to help us have an agricultural policy throughout the country. The big challenge is that the Progress Party is proposing to remove 7.7 billion. kr. I also think it is a great challenge that the Right, which says correctly that they support a system of agricultural agreements, also proposes a cut of 2 billion. kr. We know that it will have serious consequences in today's situation to make such a big cut. I would also like to stress that when we talk about the use of budgetary resources, and that we are increasing the budget framework by over 350 million. kr with this agreement, we talk about prioritizing different good purposes in budgetary terms. We also need to take that with us, even if we want to help secure agriculture in the future and ensure an agriculture that contributes to employment and housing throughout the country. We give priority to grass-based livestock. That is a clear priority. We give priority to the districts, and it is a policy of distribution both geographically and between small and large that is important. So someone has said that we're going to take out more in price. We've taken out over 860 million. kr in price, and we can't isolate ourselves. Agriculture is also exposed to competition. Competition with imported products arises so that one cannot take out unconditionally in the market on his own. There are also limitations here, which we have to take with us. Prices cannot go all the way to heaven. We have to be competitive in food. I am concerned about import protection, but what ensures us the possibility of having a high price take-off, is import protection, the import protection that the Party attacks. In my view, there is still too much distance between those who are farming today and those who are working in other industries. It's the big challenge that we still have to work to do something about. As I said, we have increased the framework for Norwegian agriculture, and we have significantly increased income opportunities for independent farmers in the last five to six years, more than ever since the 1970s. My ambition, of course, is to contribute to the further development of this industry, both by providing an agricultural message and through good agricultural settlements in the future, so that it becomes even more robust and even more competitive, thereby reducing the take-off and ensuring production. It's over, thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4711	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4714	Just to follow up on a few of the last centrists who were on the pulpit, Lundtigen and Lange Nordahl. This measurement is already done in the municipalities. We do that at every choice. After all, the accession of the Central Party around us shows a clear response to how the strength ratio is also in the agricultural municipalities. What I want to say at the end of my speech is that there is one thing I think has been absent in the debate, and that is the consumer's perspective. We have had a debate related to farming and we have only talked about farmers' conditions. But I hope, at least, that the Council of State will at any time come with the agricultural notification – this time apparently until the fall, we will see if it is kept up – has a greater consumer perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4723	It was tempting to reply to the Council of State, Breck, who referred to the Right cut of 2 billion. kr, which he thought would have such enormous consequences. Firstly, I would like to point out that the right removed the investment fee when we last sat in government. It also had very serious consequences for agriculture and farmers when they were to invest. We know they have big problems today, so we want to do more in that direction. We want to remove regulations, which we know prevent positive agricultural developments. We want to create an investment fund, which will also benefit agriculture very well. We want to improve depreciation rates, and we want to remove the wealth tax on working capital. If it can't provide a better basis for both operation and investment, it's not a big deal we can do in agriculture. We can't go on like today. I'm absolutely sure we can compensate a lot with just these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4730	I'm not going to extend the debate, I think. I just want to comment on the consumer perspective, which I had in mind in my post, and which was commented on by the Progress Party. In fact, what is relevant to this agricultural agreement and the matter we are dealing with now is that the assumed price increase for the consumer is on something less than 0.1 pst. I also said that in relation to the development of support for agriculture, it is clear that the consumer perspective and the caution to shift the cost to consumers should be taken with him. But it has to be a combination. Otherwise, I would say that if the challenge presented by the representative Lundtegen to the Progress Party was to be met by the Progress Party in some way during the summer, I see it as very positive if I too could be invited, because it is a bit exciting to challenge the Progress Party, as forming its agricultural policy from its love for New Zealand, where the average herd of cows is 337, while in Norway it is 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4737	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[See page 5003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4753	I thought now I'd spend my 30 minutes, so we'd get a debate over and over again. The 2010 Annual Report of the Ombudsman’s Department of Defence shows a broad range of activities within the instructions and mandates given to it by the Stortinget. The name shall be the representative of the defence personnel, but it shall be equally important for those responsible for the first-time duty. A rapid review of the case shows that it may be especially boys and girls who are in first-time service, and in so far as also trained soldiers or branch agencies, who have performed first-time service, who use the Ombudsman’s name but also command and civil servants use the name. In 2010, the Ombudsman dealt with 107 registered cases. In addition, there are a number of requests where advice and guidance have been provided. Both the management of the defence and the employees' organisations agree that changes to the working situation are necessary. Official organisations still believe that the problems that exist are due to an imbalance between tasks and resources. The Ombudsman has commented for several years that the long-term phase of conversion is perceived as an additional burden on staff – and we understand that. The conversion also means that many people have to move, and I also think we should have respect for that. Nevertheless, the committee believes that the working environment in the defence sector is largely good. So a couple of things that apply to the soldiers in first-time duty. There are issues related to security clearance for guardians that seem to take a very long time. Here the Committee calls on the Ministry of Defence to take a particular look at this issue in order to avoid delays and, of course, to ensure the necessary security. The balance sheet is there, and we ask that we look at it separately. The second is guidelines for the implementation of equal terms of service, which were last revised in 2002 and launched in March 2003. The national authorities of the Security Council have taken note of the fact that more data subjects are subject to the obligation to provide services far beyond what is described in the Guidelines. The Committee agrees that the guidelines need to be reviewed and that the relevant guidelines need to be clarified. There are still too few women in Norwegian defence. I don't think there's been any particular increase in the last decade. I think there's still something over 7 pst., and it really was in 2001. But there is a slight increase in both girls taking first-time service, and in the employment of foreign personnel, so-called branch ladders, who have gone through the first-time service in advance. The Ombudsman concludes that women’s staff are well placed in the military environment, even if there is enough time left here. Then there's an area called the denominator, where there's a need to come up with some measures. The defence has problems in recruiting apprentices, while many young people on professional lines do not have apprenticeships. This mismatch has to be done with. I have received input from several sides, such as: Why not integrate the duty of protection into apprenticeship for students on professional lines? So that thought has also been passed on. The case is also important because the apprenticeship system of course provides a basis for recruiting the professional skills needed by the defence. So finally, the Committee expresses satisfaction in the vote on the work started to improve the situation of veterans who are suffering from sensitised injuries after participation in international operations. Since the second world war in Germany, Norway has had personnel in international military operations — 120 000 in total for 40 operations. That's part of it. These are men and women who have contributed to increasing stability in conflict zones. Participation in such operations also contributes to improving the global security situation, not least after we have received asymmetric warfare. Some of our soldiers have given the girlfriend they have, their own lives, in active military service out there. I am proud that the Stortinget, at the end of its presidency and on a proposal from the representative of Hagesetter, has decided to recognise and honor the Norwegian men and women who, with their lives, have contributed to international peace and security. A memory plate is now being set up in the staging building to honor our failings in international operations. With this, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4779	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Fotation, see page 5006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4795	There have been many contentious issues in Stortinget today, so it's good to have a little break with a couple of unanimous issues from the Control and Constitutional Committee – before we go back to it. Review of the State Council's protocols is part of the constitutional control responsibilities of the Stortinget to investigate the government's activities. The Rules of Procedure require the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee to carry out these checks on behalf of the Storting. So this is kind of a half-yearly view, and it's often gone very quickly because there's been a few comments. This time — if you can use that term — it has been a little more exciting, even though it has been as exciting as the debate on agriculture earlier today. This period has had two dissidents in the government – so the period is the last six months of 2010. Both of these were concerned with the Data Storage Directive. The Committee has also reviewed the rules transmitted and has taken out two specific review regulations. Regulation No 9 July 2010 applies to: 1087 on compensation for restrictions on the use of demarcated pastures due to predatory game, and Regulation of 17 December 2010 on coordinated treatment against winter and spring 2011 salmoneus. None of these regulations has been found to make any comments, but they have been part of the regulatory review that the Committee has now committed itself to. We have also found hand inscriptions on the State Council Protocol on two occasions. One correction has been made due to a typographical error, and the other correction was made in relation to a paragraph reference. The Committee has addressed this issue by letter to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has responded to the practice of the Committee. The Committee has stated that it is the kgl. the resolution expressing the real will of the Council of State and agreeing with the Prime Minister that a person must exercise a particularly high degree of caution if he makes corrections in agreed kilograms. resolutions without re-examination by the Council of State. There is a new treatment in the Council of State that is the clear rule, even in relatively small changes. In addition, the Committee has received information relating to the appointment of ambassadors in specific missions. The general rule for the appointment of ambassadors, including ambassadors in special assignments, is that they are to be appointed to the Council of State. The first paragraph of Chapter 2 of Section 16 is quite clear that the general rule is that. However, in some special and very short-term missions of a ceremonial nature, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may appoint such ambassadors on special missions. It is a common assumption that the use of that title is limited to the duration of the mission, and this should be specified in the individual case. The Committee addressed this issue with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs then explained the status of these appointments to the Committee. In the second half of 2010, six ambassadors were appointed without treatment in the Council of State. All titles are assigned from a specific date but without an end date. In addition to those appointed in the last six months of 2010, 12 persons were assigned the title of Ambassador in special assignments, one of them being fully retired from 2004. Eight of these twelve were from a certain date, but without the end date. Of those that had been awarded titles with a specified end date, the appointment was for all more than 16 months. The Committee has criticised this practice and has found reason to state that the general rule of the foreign policy, Chapter 2, Section 16, is that the appointment of ambassadors is also to be carried out on specific missions by the Council of State. The Committee has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs to implement changes that bring these processes within the framework of the foreign policy. It is an important signal that the Minister of Foreign Affairs should take with him. In addition – and finally – this time we have also found reason to point to the need for the Committee to have access to the expanded candidate lists. We've pointed it out several times before, but still there are some departments that don't follow that call. I ask the Council of State who is present in the Chamber to take it back to their colleagues and ensure that one in the future is cleaned up in such a simple situation. Otherwise, the committee's position is unanimous on absolutely all points.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4823	This may be the reason why no more have asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 5006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4839	The rapporteur, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, has the floor and has 30 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4842	That was when a very rough speaking time – it is not necessary at all. As the rapporteur, I intended to take advantage of the occasion in connection with the annual matter we have on ‘Regulatory for additions, etc.’. to released compulsory ratings’, to say a few words about the duty of protection and initial service now following the military action that has just been carried out. As Stortinget is well known, § 109 of the Constitution states: «Every citizen of the State is generally equally obliged, for a certain period of time, to protect his country of origin, without regard to birth or wealth.» So that means that we have a duty of protection, and the first-time service is one of several possible ways to implement that duty of protection. There is a broad consensus in Norway on the protection obligation, and there is also a broad consensus that the first-time service may be the main means of implementing it. A few years ago, it was like approaching the entire male coal, i.e. approximately. 30 000, completed the service, whether they needed it or not. Today it is approx. 10000 to be called and 7000 to 8000 to be executed. There is also a new system of women/girls on session, and it is exciting to see what the outcome of it will be in the long term. As I said, there is broad agreement on the protection and first-time service. However, in order for that consensus to remain there and for the foundation of the duty of protection to remain strong, it is important that we continuously update both the initial service and other means of implementing the duty of protection. This means that we have to make sure that this is a military education you get when you do the first service, that it is real, that you have time-real material, that you have what you need to actually also contribute to recruiting to the Defense. As I said, there has just been a military operation. I had the pleasure of being present at two of the events. And what's striking is that you meet young people who have a very reflective and thoughtful relationship with actually serving their duty of protection. They're motivated, they're engaged, and they thrive. And that's something that's positive. There have been many discussions about what can be done to raise the status of the initial service. There's a discussion that fits in a different context than this, but let me just mention it, since the right of the remarks in the vote has asked the government to consider equalising the economic education bonus and the dispensation allowance. There has been a requirement that the BFO has submitted to the Committee in dealing with this matter, and so we have asked the Ministry and the government to consider whether this could be a possible solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4864	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 5006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4880	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4889	Pirate attacks outside Somalia, in the Gulf of Aden and in the Indian Sea have increased in scope and intensity while the use of violence by pirates has increased. Since 1 January of this year, pirates have killed at least seven seafarers, and as of 14 May 26 ships and 520 seafarers are held hostage. There is no doubt that the situation is serious and unacceptable. In order to prevent piracy, there are established transits, involving the gathering of ships in groups and sailing in corridors where the military vessels are stationed along the route as watch posts. So the ships don't have a permanent escort, but if a ship sends an alarm, the response time is less than 30 minutes, preferably from a helicopter on one of the military vessels. Convoys are restricted to Gulf of Aden. Due to the presence of the military forces, the Gulf of Aden is relatively safe for shipping today. However, the problem is that pirates operate in large parts of the Indian Ocean, where they are not convoys, and where military presence is not effective enough to protect shipping. In practice, pirate waters are today an area larger than Europe, and it is therefore too easy to say that everything is going to solve with an extra frigate. In order to prevent piracy, the industry has taken initiatives, and it is established Best Management Practices, as we know here in the Chamber, can be undertaken as voluntary measures. Lawlessness in Somalia allows pirate networks to operate from bases along the coast. Pirate base on land is located in the regions of Puntland and Galmudug in the north-east. International measures to combat piracy in Somali waters have helped to some extent to dampen the activity. But the networks are adapting to international efforts. The problem has shifted to new sea areas beyond the reach of the international maritime forces. The pirate networks also develop their methods and adapt to countermeasures from commercial shipping. If the mainland pirate networks in Somalia are not challenged, the defense's intelligence believes that we can expect the problem to increase to an extent. ‘A lasting solution to the problem requires stabilisation of the mainland situation’, they write in the recent threat assessment. Norway spends more than 200 million each year. kr for stabilisation in Somalia. It is also important to say that the measures taken by the industry itself, with physical measures such as barge wire or water cannons along the shooting side, have been effective in the sense that to date no successful hijackings have been carried out by ships that have fully followed all preventive measures. But our main priority in Norwegian policy has been to build up justice in Somalia. This is important, not least to ensure that the pirates get their sentence and must pay their punishment. Nine out of ten pirates captured at sea are released again. This is totally unacceptable, and shows the importance of combating piracy through a broad approach. There is agreement in this Chamber that Norway should also contribute militarily to the fight against piracy. We have done this both with the frigate KNM ‘Fridtjof Nansen’, which was put at the disposal of the EU operation Atalanta for half a year in 2009/2010, and with staff officers in the operation. Now we're going to send an Orion maritime surveillance aircraft from October this year – a capacity that's very useful, and that's requested by NATO, where our defense has good competence through long experience in monitoring our own large seas. And we're particularly good at connecting the intelligence collected through aircraft, along with the ships operating on the sea. The majority in this room therefore consider that the intention of the representative proposal is respected, and that a frigate without a helicopter, which is what the opposition will send in addition, is also not as effective and is therefore not current.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4908	It is now four months since the proposal for increased Norwegian intervention in the Gulf of Aden was promoted. Unfortunately, we have to state that the situation in the waters of eastern Africa is getting worse and worse for every day that goes. Pirates are constantly arresting new ships and holding the crew hostages in order to threaten them with ever-increasing amounts of ransom for each ship. Only in the first three months of the year were 31 ships and about 800 pirate crews taken care of. One thing is the economic consequences of piracy. In addition, it is outrageous that hundreds of seafarers are to be confined in hijacked ships. The ramifications are huge. The pirates threaten them all the time with guns. Some of the pirates are just children. Seafarers don't get any information. Their workplace has become not just a prison, but a torture chamber. Norway has a responsibility to participate actively in the fight against piracy. Pirates are increasingly operating southwards. Now ships are also hijacked along the coast of Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique, and it is approaching South Africa. Ships heading with coal from Mozambique to Turkey now take the road around South Africa, the Atlantic and the Strait of Gibraltar. It takes an extra 15 days to sail along the east coast of Africa and through the Suez Canal. Piracy results in an estimated 4 pst reduction in the gross domestic product of the island country of Seychelles. Ports in Kenya have been closed, cruise traffic has almost ceased, food prices are getting higher due to the uncertainty of the waters along the east coast of Africa – just to mention some of the effects of the ruthless attacks of pirates on peaceful international shipping. On 4 March, the Ministry of Industry sent out a letter of consultation, one of the proposals being to amend the Arms Regulation so that Norwegian registered ships could carry weapons and ammunition on board. The Economic and Social Council of Gishe has not officially reached a conclusion, but Gishe himself said to Today's Business on March 4th this year: ‘There are no poor boys who roll out and take a big boat. It is through professionally.» So he agrees with us in the Advancement Party. Then it's the people who say you have to have a solution on land before you can fight piracy effectively. That was probably right at first, but now piracy has become an independent phenomenon, completely detached from the situation on the country side of Somalia. The Norwegian Maritime Officers' Association has carried out a study showing that the proposals of the Giske Department have been supported. Among the masters want 91 pst. having the possibility of carrying armed guards. But so far nothing has happened in that area. But the best thing is to make it impossible for the pirates to hijack ships. Pirate activities are of the same age as organised shipping. Same old is also the experience that only armed resistance helps to combat pirates. Norway had a frigate in the area for a few months and a half ago. It turned out to be an effective response to the pirates. It is not enough to stop piracy, but it is a good contribution, which, together with efforts from other countries, will be effective. Norway is a major maritime nation. We have a responsibility. We're going to send an Orion plane that's going to be operating in the area, but that's not enough. I believe it is unsolvable for Norway to shift almost all the burden to other countries. Norway has modern and powerful warships, and we have financial resources that are needed to make an active effort. Unfortunately, we have to state that the government has been tame and passive. To date, the Minister of Defence has only mentioned that a frigate can be deployed in 2012. When in 2012 we know little about. In other words, it could be about a year and a half before a frigate is in place. The government doubles. One council of states communicates one vision, another council of states the very opposite. The passivity of Faremo stands in stark contrast to the desire of the Council of State to act. The minority in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence therefore wants to strengthen the NATO operation Ocean Shield by putting a frigate at our disposal again this year, and as soon as possible. I therefore refer to the proposal by the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4935	The representative Peter N. Myhre has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4938	Previous speakers described the scale of the problem, which is increasing in character. And shipping in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean has attracted very much attention. We know that of 20 000 ship passages per year, more than 1000 have the Norwegian flag in some denomination on their ship. This means that there is a considerable amount of Norway passing through this heretic waters. It is actually Norwegian territory that is under attack, but unlike all other Norwegian territory, it is not covered by the standard protection that we expect Norwegian territory, regardless of geography. We know that the increased activity in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean is a greater and greater cost to the entire world community, to which the representative Myhre was in. It is estimated this year that this will cost the world community some time around 12 billion. US dollars — in direct and indirect costs. This activity has an increasing scale and also a two-fold increase in cost. Therefore, the two parties behind the proposal, the government's approach to this issue, find themselves directly reluctant. It's been a hesitant approach, a hesitant presence. We have seen that countries like Turkey, Greece, Spain, Italy, France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark are more committed to protecting their interests, property, than Norway has. For example, the United States is permanently present. When you compare – as the rapporteur does here – the cost of up to 200 million. Norwegian kroner for the frigate's presence, there is reason to note that Greece, with another economic force, actually shows a greater commitment to its presence in this area. This is an illustration of what I'm describing. We have a situation where the pirates act more professionally. They're better organized, better equipped, more armed than before. The pirates are more violent than before, and ships and crews are held longer before they are released. Pirates build up systematically to intensify and expand their activity, and more and more money is being paid in ransoms. When the majority parties say that the intention of the proposal is respected, it is at best a powerful exaggeration of what is fact. Because when this proposal was promoted, the government's official policy was that this issue will be addressed during 2012. Now it might be tempting to say that we have made a decision and a decision to send staff officers and an Orion plane down. But what this situation requires is, in fact, that we have launched a permanent policy in this area that takes account of the expanded activity and also of the threat posed by Norwegian property, Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian shipping companies, and to an even greater extent will be exposed, in a situation that evolves from bad to worse. This is why the right side calls for the ability to maintain long-term and predictability in this area to a far greater extent than the improvisation of piracy policy. That is why I expect the Faremo State Council, when she is about to explain the government's policy in this area, to consider what kind of «long-term policy» the government intends to exercise in this area, in a situation that, as I have said before, escalates from evil to worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4957	Norwegian and international seafarers experience a daily fear of piracy in the Gulf of Aden. The situation affects international trade and is unacceptable. Around 1 000 Norwegian ships pass through the Gulf of Aden this year. About half of these fly the Norwegian flag. This means that there are at all times a significant number of Norwegian ships with several hundred Norwegian and foreign seafarers on board these waters. In addition, the vessels that sail in the Indian Ocean. About 20 pst. of all trade in the world passing through the Gulf of Aden. Despite about two years of active international efforts, piracy continues to pose a constant threat to maritime traffic. The pirate situation in the Indian and Arab seas has deteriorated in recent months. The figures from the International Maritime Agency for the first quarter of 2011 indicate that the number of piracy attacks in these areas is increasing. Additional 15 hijackings in the period is a fact. At present, 20 ships are being held by some 457 seafarers in the custody of pirates. The area of action of the Pirates has increased sharply, and they are now operating in action groups in large parts of the Indian and Arab seas. This significant expansion of the area has led to a high need for maritime patrol aeroplanes that can monitor larger sea areas. So far, it has proved difficult to obtain sufficient resources for such monitoring. Especially for NATO, this is a challenge. In addition, pirate operations have become more aggressive, and it is now common for ships to be targeted with automatic weapons and grenades, often from several pirate vessels at the same time. So far this year the pirates have killed seven hostages. A number of Norwegian ships have been attacked and attempted hijacking. Pirate activities pose a major threat to the safety of seafarers. Norwegian shipping companies shall be commended for their thorough prevention of the imposition of countermeasures against piracy. This effort has undoubtedly contributed to the fact that Norway has so far been cautious about the hijacking of ships. However, we must be prepared that Norwegian ships or ships with Norwegian crews may also be hijacked. The ransom payments paid for the release of hijacked vessels are increasing. On average, in 2010, $5.4 million per ship was paid, compared with $15,000 in 2005. Such developments underline the need to intensify efforts to better understand the flow of money and the laundering of income from piracy. Military efforts are one important component in the fight against piracy. The Government therefore decided, as it is known on 4 April, to initiate the planning for the deployment of a Norwegian P-3N Orion maritime patrol aircraft for a period of up to three months in the autumn of 2011 as part of the NATO operation Ocean Shield. At the same time, it was decided to send two staff officers to the NATO Shipping Centre for up to eight months. Officers are already in place and will contribute to improving coordination towards international shipping. Both NATO and the EU have expressed the need for vessels with helicopters on board and maritime patrol aeroplanes. Both the EU and NATO are calling for military contributions. This applies in particular to the NATO operation Ocean Shield. Since the launch of this operation, NATO has had a continuous undercoverage on ships and maritime patrol aircraft. Specially the lack of maritime patrol aircraft is perceived as problematically given the extended operating range. The Norwegian patrol flight contribution has thus been considered to be the best response to the military need in the area. The information from the patrol aircraft is reported to the NATO operation and will also be shared with the EU operation in the area. The reason why the patrol flight contribution is three months old is because we don't want the contribution to the Gulf of Aden to go at the expense of our national ability to monitor our northern seas. It is the military needs that have been unequivocally expressed both in NATO and in the EU that have been the governing force for Norway to decide that our contribution this time will be a maritime patrol plane. The EU established its maritime operation, Atalanta, on 8 December 2008. The aim is to escort the World Food Programme supply ship to Somalia and protect vulnerable shipping from piracy. Norway participated with the frigate KNM ‘Fridtjof Nansen’ with a crew of 160 for a period of six months until February 2010. The mission was handled in a very good way, and the operations management in Atalanta considered the Norwegian contribution to be very important. Norway is still represented by 15 permanent staff officers at NATO Maritime Headquarters in Northwood outside London.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4985	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4988	Having heard the case rapporteur explain, I understand that it was pointed out that it has been important for the government to build law and order in Somalia. Since it's been hard to see that there's any results, I want the Council of State to say something about what you've been betting on, and what you've done in terms of civil law and order in Somalia.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e4993	Norway is making considerable efforts in the long-term stabilisation of Somalia – 200 million annually. kr for the purpose, of which approx. half set aside for emergency aid last year. This year we are further escalating the effort by 30 million. kr, in order to build capacity in the region, in order to be able to prosecute and judge the pirates. An important part of this will be to fund prisons in stable parts of Somalia, so that convicted pirates can also zone in their home country. We also step up our dialogue with the authorities in Puntland. Norway also had the Presidency in the first six months of last year in the contact group, which coordinates international efforts against the maritime problem and has helped to establish a support fund that generates money from several countries. These are also means that can be used to prosecute the pirates. These are examples of the broad approach the government has taken to tackling this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5000	The Minister of Defence also stresses that the activity of pirates is increasing. In other words, the measures taken by a number of nations in the area are not sufficient and therefore need to be strengthened. I'm sure it's a good idea to send an Orion plane. But it assumes that there are marine forces in the vicinity that can take action. With regard to Minister of Industry Giske's proposal, which has been put to the hearing, to allow the armaments of Norwegian ships in the area, I would like to ask whether the Minister of Defence agrees that there is an adequate measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5008	It is true that the government has to deal with the issue of the use of armed guards on Norwegian ships, and that the Minister of Industry will come back to this with the Minister of Justice. It is important to ensure that we have good and safe frameworks around such a possible instrument. I also think it is right and important that, if necessary, we also engage internationally to ensure that a good framework is established around such a regime. At this point I will not rule out that it may also be an instrument to use from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5013	The Council of State gives a long-term picture of a sustained and increasing action in the Gulf of Aden in the Indian Ocean, by offering Norwegian presence with military capacity of three months. That's it -- in a situation that goes from bad to worse. Then you point out that you will not weaken Norwegian presence in our northern regions as one of the reasons. Very familiar is not the case – in a situation where you choose to borrow directly from others – that our frigates, purchased and paid, are characterized by undercapacity, exactly. Why this hesitant attitude towards Norwegian property, Norwegian interests and Norwegian seafarers, who experience serious threats every day?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5018	It's absolutely right that I'm drawing a dark picture of the situation. Despite a military operation for a long time, we see an image that evolves to the worse. There is also a background for government involvement in a broad approach, which includes several actions, both in cooperation with the shipping industry and with a view to strengthening the situation on land. Military efforts are also an important part of the action package. I do not exclude that Norway will also return with new contributions after the Orion flight has served in the area. At this point in time, the Orion flight is the capacity that we can best contribute to an operation that also needs to monitor ever larger sea areas in conjunction with the ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5023	There is a significant cost related to piracy, also for Norwegian shipping companies and Norwegian economy, but for international trade in particular. The Council of State was in its intervention on the chronic deficiency it has experienced throughout the operation in the Gulf of Aden, either as a NATO operation or as an EU operation, that there is no satisfactory amount of strength. Some of that problem lies on the Norwegian side. It's been a year and a half since the last time we had a frigate in the Gulf of Aden, when we're going to make the decision to deploy an Orion plane. Does the Council of State feel that it is satisfactory to have insufficient strengths in this area? Does the Council of State think that what she and her department have done to be present is satisfactory for the protection of world trade and Norwegian property in Norwegian ships?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5030	What I think is important for us to contribute are the requested capacities, and with the Orion flight, I believe that we are contributing in a good way in the situation where piracy has evolved from bad to worse. We're talking about international organized crime, which requires far more action than just military action. Here, of course, there is a great deal of responsibility for the international community, and we will continue to contribute to measures at different levels, which I have also helped to explain in previous articles. And of course, we'll follow this situation carefully and see how we can best contribute in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5035	All those who are reluctant to use Norwegian military resources in the Gulf of Aden and along the east coast of Africa tend to justify this by having to do something on the country side in Somalia first. The situation in Somalia is, as we know, very complicated, and we also know that piracy is more and more living its own lives — completely independent of the situation in Somalia — and that pirates are recruiting from a number of different countries. My question is therefore: Does the government really believe that the great military effort against the pirates will only take place when – in one year, or ten, or twenty – you have found the solution that is hoped for in Somalia?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5042	This is a problem of great attention, both in NATO and in the EU, and of course we are prepared to make the best possible contribution from the government, following a broad approach with different measures. Today, 24 ships are sailing in the military operation, and in that situation we have seen it right to contribute an Orion plane, which can contribute information from the air so that the ships in this large area of military operations will have the best possible information about the activity that is taking place. I hope that I am also illustrated that military action alone can improve this situation. 20 000 sailing in the area requires much more than 24 vessels, if you think that this found its solution militaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5049	Norway has a significant interest as a shipping nation in the safety of this area. How does the Council of State feel it is right that we should leave all responsibility for the safety of ships in this area to other nations, and not take our share of responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5054	We definitely take our share of responsibility, and as I also said, there is every reason to recognise the industry itself for the work they are doing to ensure the best possible. We can see that by complying with the guidelines developed by the industry itself, these vessels are also best protected against pirates. But we will continue to contribute, also militaryly, and therefore the Orion aircraft will be in operation Ocean Shield from October of the Gulf of Aden and this large area that now includes both the Indian Sea and the Arab Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5061	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5064	The Government has decided to take part in the NATO operation Ocean Shield from October 2011 and for three months in the future. This supports the majority of the Committee, but the disagreement lies in what the contribution should be. The majority of the Committee considers that a Norwegian contribution best meets NATO’s needs for the deployment of a maritime surveillance aeroplane. The letter from the Minister of Defence, dated 15 March, clearly shows that Norway’s contribution to foreign operations needs to be seen in the context. This supports the undersigned. Norway has a significant contribution both in Afghanistan and Libya, and our ability to contribute effectively to NATO's operation in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean will therefore be like NATO's demand, namely an Orion aircraft. The situation outside Somalia cannot be seen alone as an isolated problem, as the Progress Party and the Right Long Way suggest in their comments. The situation on land and in Somalia is very serious, and I am therefore pleased that the government is actively working to improve the legal situation on land. Somalia has been referred to as a so-called ‘failed state’, which means that the challenges on land are, of course, closely linked to the illegalities we also see at sea. Both the government and our international shipping industry indicate that the solution to the problem cannot be solved at sea alone, and that we must therefore actively facilitate solutions to challenges such as: means strengthening the judicial system in Somalia and therefore on land. I therefore refer to the government's allocations of 200 million. kr annually, which shall contribute to stabilisation in Somalia. Piracy at sea is a problem and needs to be solved primarily on land — and through international diplomacy, humanitarian aid and, among other things, a strengthening of it. police, courts and prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5078	Norway is an important shipping nation with long traditions of operating in international waters. Shipping is essential in order to ensure world trade and is therefore very important in the international context. In line with air traffic, shipping must be ensured as far as possible against criminal acts and terrorism. International waters must be seen as a joint responsibility for the surrounding countries and the nations operating in the waters. Norway, as a major maritime nation, therefore has a special responsibility to ensure the waters in which we sail. Pirate activities have become a precarious problem to combat in recent years, and in particular problems have peaked around — and in — the Gulf of Aden. But also far outside this area is now operating pirates. Most of these are organized from Somalia. One development we have also seen is that pirates are increasingly less and less related to the conflicts on land in Somalia, and that the activity is now increasingly characterised by international crime. It's scary to think that this kind of crime is growing. It is important that Norway helps to stop this escalation of attacks on ships. We cannot sit and watch criminal networks and terrorists take a greater hold on the premises of shipping in the world. The largest pirate groups are now so large economic units that they have a significant impact on the economy and activity of several places in Somalia. The number of hijacked ships is now above 30, and it is approximately 30. 750 hostages on board these ships. Pirates have also developed in terms of equipment and training and have become significantly more professional. Pirates have great financial gains from their criminal acts, which have a contagious effect and lead young unemployed and former fishermen to view piracy as an alluring activity. Therefore, it is very positive that there is a military vessel from the EU, the United States, China, India, Russia and Japan present to fight against this piracy. Norway also participated in the period August 2009 to February 2010 with the frigate KNM ‘Fridtjof Nansen’. The frigate was a positive and good contribution to the multinational efforts to stop pirates. The Council of State has stated that sending frigates back to the Gulf of Aden may be relevant, but not until 2012. We in the Progress Party do not believe that this is a goal. Norwegian participation in the multinational effort is needed soon. It is important that Norway shows that we do not tolerate this activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5089	There is a need to comment on the opposition's criticism in this matter. It blends into the familiar pattern: too little too late. That is in so far a known and dear way of criticizing. I would like to recommend both the Right Party and the Advance Party to read the latest threat assessment presented on Tuesday from the E-service in Defense. They write very clearly: «A lasting solution to the problem requires stabilisation of the mainland situation.» And on the other hand, ‘All the time when the mainland pirate networks in Somalia are not challenged, problems are expected to increase to an extent.’ I want to ask the law-and-order party Progress Party, which in justice policy – at least – is very concerned about getting those who commit crime imprisoned, while when it comes to pirates, building prisons is an unacceptable method: are they satisfied that nine out of ten pirates are released? And what is in the case of their solution to that problem? I also want to ask the Right Party and the Advance Party, who will now send an extra frigate: in a sea area that represents a size equivalent to Europe, and there are 24 frigates, what is the big difference the 25th frigate will contribute to the effectiveness of an Orion surveillance plane? We know from our oceans that having an Orion surveillance plane on mission is very effective. It is a more effective way to combat piracy than to send a frigate to, is my personal opinion. Then I would like to say that it is rejected that Norway as a maritime nation has not taken its responsibility. State Council Faremo went through what we've done, what we're doing with completely concrete, both civil and humanitarian, and not least military with staff officers, with frigates, and now with Orion's surveillance aircraft. It is wrong that Norway does not take its responsibility to contribute to combating piracy along the coast of Somalia.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5110	It is a well-known case that the Storting over the years has had a fondness for frigates, and perhaps MTBs, some will add. But it's still a little strange, if the attitude of the Storting is that we're going to send a frigate to the Gulf of Aden or the Indian Sea. It's kind of just frigates that apply. It's just frigates who are like proper military contributions. Now, maritime surveillance aircraft is a requested capacity, and we'll do it. But it's kind of blown away by the proposers, it's frigates that apply. The representative proposal was actually also promoted before the government decided to contribute an Orion surveillance plane to the area, so I'm left with the impression that it doesn't matter what a do and what the situation requires; we're going to silent with a frigate anyway. We must take the situation in the area as seriously as possible. That's why we're now contributing to an Orion surveillance plane, and we're going to see if we're going to make any other kind of contributions later, because unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be any quick solution to the problem. When I heard the post to Peter N. Myhre, it seemed to me that he thought it was just weapons that apply, the weapon solves the problems. Yes, it may solve the situation on board the ships that are hijacked — at least partially — but it does not solve the root causes of piracy, because they are found on the mainland in the countries around the Horn of Africa and eastern parts of Africa. So we have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We need to contribute both with military capabilities, which we are now doing once again, and which we may also have to contribute further in the future, and we need to contribute in the long term to solving the major challenges that exist in the countries of eastern Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5121	I asked for the word relatively recently. Until the last two speakers held their speeches, I thought that now is basically the most said thing in this debate, at least of what should be said. And of course, there is a lot of what we now heard from the representatives Gustavsen and Myrli, should not have been said, because it's incalculable, it's wrong, and it makes this debate take a turn that it shouldn't have. It has never been stated by the Progress Party that we are opposed to sending an Orion plane. Rather, on the contrary, we fully agree with both the government and government parties in the United Kingdom that it is important to strengthen the surveillance of marine areas, so that the forces participating in the Ocean Shield at sea can be coordinated and deployed to make their contributions. The argument I find the most difficult to deal with is that it doesn't matter if we send a marine when there's already 24 there, because there's so little difference between 24 and 25. Everybody could say that. It's not every single ship that matters, it's the sum of those that are the capacity that is needed to have a stronger control of pirate activity, and to have as much of it eliminated as possible. I also want to say in the end when it comes to Swearer Myrli: so he goes into the trap that he says that you have to solve the situation in Somalia, because without solving the situation in Somalia, it is not possible to do anything about the piracy. It would probably Myrli have been right in if he had said it two years ago, but today it's not right anymore. Because of the huge amounts that have become cashed by the pirates in the area, this has now become so profitable that it will continue in any case, unless one has a strong Ocean Shield operation with the necessary forces that need to be, not only to prevent a continued increase in piracy in the area, but to reduce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5132	Then the next speaker is the representative Ivar Kristiansen, who is the last recorded speaker. It must not be perceived as an invitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5135	I'll try to take into account the President's hidden appeal. I just want to say that I have a great deal of understanding that the representatives of the government parties are doing everything they can to get their Council of State rescued here in this debate. Of course, that should also be when the situation warrants it, and when it's necessary, and the time is absolutely within the scope of that kind of activity at this moment. It is of course the clearest course that the situation must be resolved on land too, but it cannot be the great comfort of Norwegian shipowners, Norwegian seafarers and other seafarers who sail on Norwegian wages – or of those who receive pay payments on board Norwegian property at least – in a situation where the piracy escalates. Just frigates, is Right's wish – no, of course not. But we have listened to what the Swedish Maritime Association has asked for and what the Norwegian Shipowners have asked for. It may hardly have passed the representatives of the government parties. Of course, we support sending down a surveillance plane. But the point must be that we're going to set up. The strength of the shipping nation Norway must not lean on others – in Greece and Turkey – in order to safeguard our interests. See what the U.S. Secretary of Defense Gates is saying every day when he has the opportunity to say something about the military situation in Europe — national bets among European countries — that it is now time to tighten up, wake up, and prioritise his own security higher than the priority he has been willing to take so far. We have the military capabilities. This is about participating in the same line and with a size representative of the extent of Norway’s – Norwegian economy, Norwegian presence and Norwegian staff – in this water. The main criticism of the Right is that in one of the really big conflicts – a piracy that hosts world trade – we have a policy that is at best improvised and that has a three-month perspective. We're calling for a greater and better long-term, and we're not going in detail to point out what kind of capacity is going to be in this area at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5150	Several have not asked for the floor. No 20. [[See page 5007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5166	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5177	Let me first say a little about some of the issues in the setting that there has not been any particular attention. The border guard at the Garrison in South Varanger is doing an important job of guarding Norway’s border with Russia – a border that is also the external border of the Schengen countries. Today, the border guard has six so-called border stations, where parts of the building mass are old and inappropriate. It is therefore now set up to replace these six stations with two new, modern stations – one at Svanvik in Pasvik and one near Storskog. The size has previously decided that the defence trade unions in information and communication technologies will gather as much as possible at Jørstadmoen at Lillehammer. This follows the government up, and the increased activity on Jørstadmoen means that there is now a need for more enrichment capacity. Therefore, it is gratifying that there is full support for the defence to build new command cabinets and new leisure fairs at Jørstadmoen Over several years, the Defence Agency has been working on a common integrated management system – the LOS programme. The so-called Logistics Project is the third and last major project in the LOS programme. The implementation of this project exceeds the previously adopted cost framework and significantly. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence considered that the project could not be stopped at this time, but it is not easy for us to agree to increase the cost framework for the project, and I ask the defense that they note some critical comments from the Committee. Let me also say quite briefly that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has no comments on the matters put forward by the government in the proposal for information for the Stortinget. It concerns the Eastern Region, the work on energy savings in defence, the purchase of a new research vessel, the status of the national helicopter competence centre and the work on organisational changes at the Air Force Main Workshop at Kjeller. Let me then turn to the big case, namely the acquisition of training planes to the Air Force and the further development of the Joint Strike Missile, JSM. On 6 June 1975, The Stortinget decided by 100 to 19 votes to purchase 72 fighter aircraft of type F-16. The 36 years since then have shown that it was a wise, right, and forward - looking decision. When F-16 arrived in 1980, it was a great technological and operational leap for the Defense. But we've now had F-16 for 31 years, and they're still going to be used for 10 new years. The planes are getting old. We have to make sure to have new aircraft in place that can replace F-16 when the day comes when they will be put on the ground. Norway is a long-distance country with large areas both at sea and at sea — and with similar large airspace. That's why an operational fighter weapon is extra important in a country like ours. New fighter aircraft are essential for the defence to be able to maintain our security and sovereignty satisfactorily in the future. There seems to be a lot of agreement about that. But then we have to make sure to make the right decisions, so that we have new planes that can take over the day F-16 is no longer operational. Acquiring new fighter aircraft is a comprehensive and time-consuming process. In 2009, Stortinget decided that F-35 would be Norway’s future fighter aircraft. F-35 was the best plane, the plane that could best meet the requirements of Norway. In addition, it was cheaper than the ‘competitor’ to use such a concept. Norway participates in the multinational F-35 programme together with eight other countries. The development programme has been somewhat delayed. This also affects Norway's deliveries, and the first aircraft are now scheduled to be delivered in 2018. Given that the F-16 aircraft will then be near 40 years old, this city will face challenges. It is limited how long you can upgrade and maintain such old airframes. Therefore, the government has proposed to the Stortinget that it purchase four F-35 training aircraft, which can be delivered in 2016 – two years before the main aircraft supply itself comes. In this way, we can start with training of pilots, technicians and other support staff before the main delivery starts in 2018. If we want these training flights in 2016, the order must be notified in August of this year and must be confirmed in December. If we do not report the order in August, we have to wait a year, and we only get training aircraft delivered in 2017. Does a year from or to really play such a big role? To that question, I will answer an unconditional yes – considering the age of the F-16 planes. With four training aeroplanes in 2016 and the main delivery from 2018, we will receive a phase-in phase-in of F-35 while gradually phase-out of F-16. Let me then comment on some of the issues that have been a bit of noise around – not in the committee or in the committee's setting, but in the media there has been noise, partly caused by some of the same representatives in the committee. In the committee setting they are in favour of the flight purchase, in the media they are against. It's been claimed that someone doesn't know what the price of the planes is. But for the four training flights we have today for treatment, we know the price. It's $800 million. kr per piece, SEK 3,2 billion. SEK in total, and with the provision for uncertainty – as is to be done for such projects – the cost framework is SEK 4,8 billion. kr. There's no uncertainty about it. For the other aircraft to be delivered from 2018, the price is not yet completely clear, sail if we have good calculations on what it will be on. The reason why the price is not ready is that the aircraft is not fully developed. In recent public vocabulary, there have been many figures about what the purchase of combat aircraft will cost – a rather confusing debate that many have not wanted to hear the correct figures. Let me therefore try to explain the cost development of the fighter aircraft programme: In St. prp. No 36 for 2008-2009, the acquisition costs of the new F-35 aeroplanes were estimated to be approximately 42 billion. kr, present value 2008-krona. With technical adjustment for price growth, changes in exchange rates and without discount, this equals approximately 60 billion. 2011 krones, calculated in exactly the same way as one calculates other similar acquisitions. The acquisition costs are now estimated at 61 billion. So in 2011, the purchase price has increased by 1 billion. kr since the 2008 calculations. And then where does the amount of 72 billion come from? kr from? Well, that's the amount of $61 billion. in addition to the provisions for uncertainty, as required by the legislation, in the case of worst-case outcomes. But it's 61 billion. kr, which is the number today, and the increase is 1 billion. NOK – not 20, not 40, not 50, as someone has claimed. Next year, Stortinget will deal with the main acquisition of new fighter aircraft. We would also like to have an up-to-date decision base, including what goes on price. If one doesn't want a rematch on the flight selection itself, what's the problem with ordering the four training planes now, all the time next year we're going to do a thorough treatment of the main acquisition of new fighter planes? Uncertainty about the price may not be – the price of these four planes we know. Why can't we wait with the decision on training airplanes until next year? Well, we can do that, but then we get the planes in 2017 and not in 2016. Some have said that we should postpone the decision until the fall. It would have been very special since the flight purchase had to be reported in August. If we had postponed the matter until the fall, we might as well have postponed it to the next year. I am pleased that the Stortinget today makes the decision to go to the purchase of four F-35 training planes. Then we'll get back to the rest of the fighter aircraft program – including the price and cost question – when we're going to deal with the main delivery next year. Let me end by mentioning the further development of the Joint Strike Missile – JSM – that we are also going to make today's decision. JSM is an essential part of Norway’s aircraft acquisition. There is full agreement that we should contribute to the development of stage 2 of the JSM programme. It's very joyful. If we succeed in that, we'll get a fighter weapon with a world-class missile, while at the same time it could be an industrial venture for Norwegian companies, maybe without equal. Other speakers from the Workers' Party will get closer to it. I recommend with this committee position at the warmest and, at the same time, would also encourage those who are behind it to vote against the proposal from the Left, which has been promoted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5234	Let me start with the simplest, which is to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough presentation, and I must say that I agreed with 90 pst. of what he said. I expect that I would have said that I was 100 pst. agree, there had been no debate here tonight. We can't do it that easily on a Thursday night. It is quite correct that the case rapporteur explained that this proposition is also about things other than the purchase of fighter aircraft, but the big focus has undoubtedly been on the price, process and purchase of the aircraft. Then the rapporteur is quite right that the price of the first four is not the problem. But that's how some of us have been concerned about the way forward and the consequences further. Of course, what the rapporteur said about the JSM missile is also an important factor in this matter and important as such. But I think I'll start with something else. I just think I want to start by congratulating the defense, starting by congratulating the Air Force and I kept saying to my good friend Colonel Charles Svensson – who is the one who worked on the defense project, together with other of his colleagues – that the Stortinget should actually make the decision they are going to make tonight. To the extent of doubt, it will be gone when this evening’s debate and vote is over – as long as nothing very surprising happens about the Left’s proposals. I think that's good, because you'll get predictability in the future. In addition, I do not know whether it is unreasonable or unheard of to say thank you to the United States, who will deliver the product to us afterwards. Furthermore, I must say that I think the Workers' Party has handled this matter with great care. I think you've done a strategic and tactical job. They've concluded with planes. A strategy has been adopted that means that by choosing to enter for the four planes now there will be no more talk about the choice of type of aircraft at least, because you can't buy a type of training aircraft and then go away from it afterwards. So here the table captures repressively. In addition, I assume that it is also about setting up contracts with the Norwegian defence industry, which of course is also positive. I am – at least to some extent – surprised that SV is involved in this. Here, then, you have to provide guidance for a purchase where you have to use – at least up against – NOK 70 000 million to subsidise and support the US defence industry. But it might be a time to stop being surprised. What you thought was impossible before is possible today. In this way, there is respect for what the government is presenting here. Nevertheless, I believe it is the government that has been the main basis for the unrest that has been here. I read a statement from a French theologian named Adolphe Monod that I thought was very good. He said, "Everything that's worth doing, it's worth doing well. The process in this matter seems to me to have not been good. After sitting and watching the hearing again today, I do not think that the Council of State was particularly clear. I think the Council of State seemed weak and evasive in some of the questions. If the matter had been as simple and straightforward as the rapporteur explained, I do not know if there had been such a need for consultation, and if there had been as much doubt as it was. I think I should allow myself to read a comment that was in the evening post the day after the hearing. I quote: ‘The presentation yesterday by Minister of Defence Grete Faremos of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence of the Storting was marked by evasive manoeuvres and received direct answers to the many questions raised by the Committee on the Purchase of Fighting Aeroplanes. But in the very last sequence of Faremo's participation, one of her bitters from the Ministry of Defence, department director Frede Hermansen, dropped the cat out of the bag. [[JSF]] The US F-35 was no cheaper than the Swedish Grip. The estimate by the manufacturer Lockheed Martin of $18 billion for 48 aircraft gave an ‘incomplete image’. [[...]] The price was actually $31 billion. While the Swedish offer, state-guaranteed, was 20 billion.» It is possible that even though the rapporteur believes that everything has been clear, someone has therefore perceived this process not to be particularly tidy, and it has contributed to the degrees the government has contributed to. So to the extent that you can talk about maneuvers, I perceive that as much of it has been an escape attempt to avoid taking responsibility for what is happening. It's scary that the Storting tonight makes a decision that's binding on what's going to happen afterwards. I hope, of course, that the Council of State and the government are right that the price will not exceed the price of the four planes we are going to decide to purchase today, because there is no doubt that the Stortinget will end up in a situation where the table catches. The choice we make tonight will have meaning – I kept saying far on the way, no matter what the price is going to be. I think it's scary, because sometimes we discuss the loan debt to the people of this country. We're worried that the volume is going up. If interest rates rise, people will be fine. It is a positive concern because we are afraid of the consequences further. In addition, if a municipality had tried something similar, I feel convinced that the countyman would have put his foot down and called it irresponsible; it is far too uncertain to implement it. But the Stortinge is simply going to make a decision that has consequences that I hope will stay within the framework set up. If not, this will create a political situation later that will be very interesting. That the purchase of the aircraft is essential for defence is raised above any doubt. It's important that we get a new and modern plane. It's important for us to be able to do our job in terms of our own sovereignty, but also as a NATO country. And as the rapporteur said, the F-16 planes need after each strike. For the Progress Party, there has been no doubt that we need the planes. We've been critical of the process. The rapporteur was also involved in a possible industrial venture. The financial paper has an article today that says something about the potential in the future. But it is also the case that this contract has accepted ‘best value’. As I understand it, it means that we can hit an internal path. But there's also a great deal of risk there, because we don't come in among those who are going to deliver. So I get the hope, like the rapporteur, that we'll meet. If this can't be expensive, and we're left with little afterwards, but with the exception of the planes that we're going to buy. So I could imagine focusing a little on the setting as such. I could imagine referring to a few things that stand there, and hope, of course, that the Council of State can comment on it when she is going to have her post page. It is therefore a comitology comment which reads as follows: ‘The Committee shares the opinion of the Hearing Officers that industrial supplies for Norwegian industry are very important and will once again stress the importance of industrial value creation in relation to the acquisition of new fighter aircraft and their system for Norway having to be of the same size as the acquisition costs.’ Does that mean, then, that if we don't get this, you shouldn't have a flight purchase? When Stortinget uses the word "must", I look forward to hearing how the Council of State interprets it. Similarly, there is another remark from the government parties, and I want to refer it too. They say, «These members indicate that the cost picture used by the government in St.prp. No 36 will be the basis for the acquisition and must be operated with clear upper cost frameworks in the contract negotiations.» [[2008-2009]] Once again, the case rapporteur was inside and explained that you have a buffer, you have 61, and you have 11 in snails up. So you've got a thank-you of $70 billion. kr. When Stortinget is so clear in his demand for it, I look forward to hearing the Council of State's response to: If you were to come up with a situation through the contract negotiations where this becomes a problem, what do we do? Is the idea then to continue driving, take a new round in Stortinget and admit that you were wrong? Would it be an idea to reduce the purchase to a lower number of planes, or does the Council of State consider this to be completely unproblematic, and that it will not happen? Sometimes it's about taking a political responsibility, having a spine to make decisions and being sure that what you do is right. And sometimes when you're sure you're right, you're still wrong, because afterwards, the conclusions of what you believed in earlier. To conclude, the Progress Party will support the proposal as it stands. We've been worried about the process. We've been worried about the uncertainty. And we had, as the case-law rapporteur was about to say, a proposal to postpone the decision until the fall, because we wanted the Stortinget to have better time to do a preliminary work – to ensure, as far as possible, that it was more certain of what is available. We're recording that the committee won't do that, and we're dealing with that. We've tried, and we've lost, and we recognize that this is the case. And then we're going to support the setting. I registered, after hearing the hearing again today, that the Council of State used terms such as ‘safe on’, ‘safe on’ and ‘based on’. I am pleased to hear the Council of State, which is so clear, that takes responsibility, and which is its political responsibility so deliberately – because it will be very surprising if we have heard the last word in this matter, as it has been mentioned so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5291	Right wants a strong and credible Norwegian defense with a high-tech and modern aircraft. Our F-16 planes and their crews make an incredibly good effort every day both at home and outside, but our F-16 planes are now 31 years old and are going to round their 40th birthday before they are put on the ground. The right has been part of Norway’s acquisition of F-35, which is most likely to be the sharpest, most flexible and most efficient fighter aircraft ever produced, when it is delivered to us by the end of this decade. It is also about Norway being a credible ally in NATO. In this context, it is also important to stress that the 2009 assumptions of the Grand Duchy continue to apply. It has to be industrial agreements. In this context, there is therefore strong support for the development of JSM, Step 2. In the 2009 proposal setting, the Right underlined that the decision only authorised the government to negotiate with Lockheed Martin on fighter aircraft purchases, it meant a real choice of fighter aircraft. In the same setting, we made it clear that the price of the two options that were assessed was only one of many criteria. The decisive point for the Right was that the professional-military assessment showed that F-35 was the only fighter candidate who met the operational requirements Norway had set. We are still of the clear opinion that the F-35 is the right plane for the Norwegian defense. To phase in new fighter aircraft in the most efficient and good way possible, in particular related to the training of pilots, technicians and support personnel, training flights must be carried out within a reasonable time prior to the phasing out of the old. But because a decision to authorize the government to purchase four training planes binds us even more closely to the fighter aircraft project, it was necessary for the Stortinget to get far more information before the decision was made. In particular, since Stortinget last discussed this, there have been several restructurings of the F-35 programme. There have been delays, there have been atrocities. The right has asked questions in several rounds ahead of this matter both in the open and in the closed forums. The 2009 purchase process for fighter aircraft was closed and inaccessible to Stortinget. In terms of the proposition we have in front of us now, it was a little bit of the same destiny. The entire proposition is seven sides long, and the review of the training planes only occupies two sides. The cost estimate for both the purchase of training aircraft and the main acquisition in 2018 is presented in just under 200 words – or on a quarter of a page. The figures are incomparable, and the information appears to be completely cryptic and inaccessible, sea for sharp-sheared pine knuckles. For a purchase that binds us even more strongly to the largest investment ever in mainland Norway, two sides appear to be very deficient. And that's a completely incomplete decision-making basis. It was against this background that the right of the committee took an initiative to organise an open hearing. It was held on June 6. In addition to the hearing, the Committee considered it necessary to submit further questions, both before and after consultation. All questions and answers as well as the full minutes of the hearing are attached to the submission, and I refer you to the answers given orally in the hearing and in writing in response to questions submitted. The questions were not primarily about details but about completely basic information about the acquisition of fighter aircraft. The questions raised include: price, price development since 2008, delivery time, status of the JSF project in the United States and in other partner countries. This is information that would obviously have been available already in the proposition, and it should actually not be necessary for the Storting to ask for that kind of information. Here Stortinget has done the job that the government should have done before submitting the case to Stortinget. In this context, I refer in particular to answers to questions 2 to 4 in Annex 3 and answers to questions 1 to 8 in Annex 6. From the Right, we would stress that what appears in the answers to be a technical adjustment for price growth is in reality more than a significant increase in the cost framework for acquisition. Regardless of whether the price change is due to currency changes, whether it is due to the project's shift further in time, or whether it is due to other factors, it is equally full of real price increases and must be explicitly made by the Ministry as it is by the Stortinget. Such a procedure by the Department in such an important case is not, in the Court's view, satisfactory. We expect the ministry to take up this criticism and provide basic and essential information in a detailed way in future propositions, especially when the proposition on the main acquisition of fighter aircraft is transmitted to the Stortinget in a short year's time. There are still outstanding questions, and there is little doubt that the Right would prefer to wait with the decision of the overall picture available. Nevertheless, a point has to be found on which to base the presentation of the Department and the Council of State. It is located in the department of investigation capacity, on the overview of progress and status of the project and on the transparency of ongoing negotiations with the producer and partner countries. In our questions to the Department, there are particularly two things that are decisive for the Right: firstly, that the Department writes that there is no indication that one will go beyond the lifetime estimates presented in 2008. I quote part of the answer to question 5, from the right, in attachment 3: ‘In total, the Ministry of Defence’s assessment is that the cost picture, including the total lifetime costs, has not changed significantly and is within the uncertainty estimate from 2008, both in terms of purchase costs and operating costs.’;» Of course, the large nominal increase in acquisition costs and the considerable concern about overruns in the programme in the United States have also raised the Committee's concerns. When the Department and the Council of State assure the Storting that everything goes according to plan, we assume that that's right. This is important for the Right, because a high cost of lifetime costs from a 30-year perspective could, of course, have consequences for the operation of other defence sectors. We have to have fighter planes, but we also have to have money to operate the other defence structure. Secondly — and this is the most important point for the Right — the Ministry informs that the suspension of the decision on the acquisition of training aeroplanes could go beyond preparedness and sovereignty enforcement for a transitional period between F-16 and F-35. In other words, not to report an order for training aeroplanes in August will delay delivery and provide reduced preparedness. I quote here from the answer to question 14, from the right, in attachment 3: ‘If we postpone the decision on the acquisition of aeroplanes until 2012, this means that the earliest time for the delivery of training aeroplanes will be in 2017.’ In any event, a postponement of this decision until the autumn of 2011 would not be applicable to the Right. What was an assessment on our part was to postpone this until spring 2012, when the Stortinge gets the whole of the treatment of the main acquisition, base selection and all the other elements of the long-term plan for treatment. All relevant information will then be available, and then the acquisition can also be seen better in the light of the long-term plan and up-to-date lifetime costs. Ideally, then, we would have dealt with this proposition. This is the largest investment ever made by mainland Norway, and also a partial acquisition, which the proposition implies, deserves such thorough treatment. Nevertheless, according to the answers we have been given, it could have delayed the phase-in of F-35 for so long that the preparedness would be weakened. A period of such a lack of preparedness is not acceptable to the Right, and in this field we have no choice but to base the department's assessment. We believe it would be irresponsible to take a chance on such a lack of preparedness, sail if it were only a short period of time. This information I have now mentioned has been a condition for the right-hand side to now choose to support the proposition – rather than to imagine that it would be postponed to the next session. After several rounds of questions, answers and hearings, we must assume that the information provided to the Stortinget is correct and complete, and that the Council of State is responsible to the Stortingen for the information provided. The acquisition of a total of 56 F-35 fighter aircraft will mean that the Norwegian Air Force will have a state-of-the-art high-tech capacity at the height of the very best in the world for many years to come. It is our responsibility as politicians on the Stortinget and in the Department that the transition between F-16 and F-35 will go as painless as possible and without significant consequences for preparedness and sovereignty enforcement. Right will do what is necessary to get this done, and we also expect the Storing and the Government to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5346	I refer to the setting and comments there when it comes to the questions that are being addressed here in connection with the investment proposition, but I would like to link some more comments to the question of fighter aircraft. SV was against the original decision to buy F-35, but we have adhered to the calculations that showed that the plane came out best on both price and quality based on the criteria that were chosen, and therefore supports it in Stortinget. We also meant from the outset that there were strong arguments to make the entire purchase at the same time. As always, we're discussing ourselves to a common position, agreeing and standing behind it, giving the statements that are now familiar with the issue of training planes. What matters now is that we need to ensure a preliminary review, i.e. an external economic review of the fighter aircraft purchase before the final purchase is to be made. It may be a Norwegian or a foreign environment, but I believe that on this issue we need to take extra care of unexpected costs and be willing to do what we can to have the best possible control over it. Especially because we have to admit that in the past we have had many defence scandals in which the money has run, and that has been far greater than one originally calculated, we have to be extra confident because this is the largest defence investment over time, and because at least it appears unclear in the public debate, and not least very unclear in the producer when it comes to development and price – and in the producer country of the United States. Then I can't let you make any comments about the context or, to put it bluntly, the complete lack of coherence between what the opposition says from the speaker, what they write in the setting, and what they say they're going to vote. First, the representative, Eriksen Soreide, says that the original proposition was ‘inaccessible’, very deficient, ‘completely incomplete’, and further states that the ministry ‘has failed to provide information that should have been made available to the Storting already in the proposition’. The setting reads as follows: ‘For a purchase that binds us even more strongly than before to the largest investment ever made by mainland Norway, these members’ – i.e. from the Right and Christian People’s Party – ‘two sides very deficient’. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that such a procedure by the Department's side in such an important matter is not satisfactory. So far as the proceedings are concerned. So, about the content. The representative of Ellingsen uses the terms ‘scrupulous’ and ‘unresponsible’ about it from Stortinget’s pulpit. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party members of the Committee further state in their vote that they find ‘the decision-making basis for the Storting in this case unsatisfactory’, and that they find ‘the poor conclusion of such a purchase agreement before the total cost aspect of the acquisition of the fighter aircraft is finally settled’. One really has to ask: how dissatisfied must it be before the opposition actually thinks that they will vote against using 4.8 billion? Do you really want to delete this item? These comments are, of course, a massive criticism of treatment and content, which one will then vote for and take responsibility for. It would be interesting to know if there's anything else that the opposition party in the committee is willing to spend 4.8 billion. kr on which they find ‘unsatisfactory’, ‘little favorable’, ‘not satisfactory’, ‘inaccessible’, ‘very deficient’, ‘incomplete’, ‘stupid’ and ‘inaccountable’? I end by saying that we have to follow the economic development when it comes to the fighter aircraft project, closely in it. It will be extremely important to keep the focus on an operation with a comprehensive cost framework to get the project into port.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5373	Modernisation of defence is one of the major challenges in the public sector. The task of defence is crucial for Norway’s safety and for our ability to assert our sovereignty. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway's combat aircraft capacity is also a vital element in the future defence structure. We have to acquire new fighter planes to replace today's F-16 before these expire. And the aeroplane type selection is done. The choice fell on the new F-35 aircraft, which is being developed by Lockheed Martin. The size made this selection based on clear recommendations. It was not just that the government claimed that the F-35 was the best and cheapest. The professional assessment of the two flight options included in the final phase did not allow for doubt. Only the F-35 could handle the tasks that the new fighter aircraft was supposed to do. The acquisition of the new fighter aircraft will be the largest investment project over time in mainland Norway. Good governance and control of this investment project is therefore also economically important. It is therefore worrying that the development of Lockheed Martin's fighter aircraft project F-35 has been delayed for several years and more expensive than planned. Significant cost increases and challenges have been identified through studies conducted by the US authorities. The Christian People's Party believes that these critical assessments are not reasonably reflected in the present investment proposition. That view is shared by the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. In the present investment proposition, the government is asking for the consent of the Storting to purchase the first four fighter aircraft of type F-35 – within a cost framework of 4.8 billion. kr. The price tag on the acquisition of all the scheduled 56 aircraft has risen to 61 billion. kr – maybe 72 brd. kr if the uncertainty margin has to be used in full. In addition, annual base and operating costs are incurred over several decades. In the prototype, the number of the four fighter aeroplanes concerned for training purposes is less than two pages. It won't last. The story therefore seemed to have to have a separate hearing and ask many dozens of written questions about the fighter aircraft case. It is our opinion that, despite this, we are left with several unanswered questions. An updated estimate of the lifetime costs of the F-35 project has not been submitted to the Committee. The implications of the rest of the Air Force structure cannot be said by the Council of State at this stage. The best thing would have been if the decision could have been made next spring. Then there would be both an up-to-date estimate of the lifetime costs of the fighter aircraft project and the next long-term defence plan. Such a postponement of the decision time has been rejected by the Council of State, claiming that it would have two serious consequences. Firstly, Norway cannot be supplied with training aircraft until 2017, if the Stortinget does not make a decision now, and the order is made in the autumn. The same deadline applies to other partner countries. Secondly, if we do not get training flights until 2017, the training of pilots for the new planes is delayed. As a result, the operational capability of the fighting aircraft in a transitional phase may fall below a certain level and Norway’s ability to assert its sovereignty will be significantly impaired. The last thing we think is very serious. The Christian People's Party must therefore take note of the Council's response to this point. From this we will support a decision to acquire the four training planes, although the decision base is far from satisfactory and should have been wider on the two points I have mentioned. In addition, the Committee has had to do a lot of the work that the Ministry had not done in the proposal in order to obtain the information. That's exactly the point that several speakers from the opposition have made. To the SV's parliamentary leader, I have to say that if SV attacks the opposition and the Christian People's Party to be critical of the decision-making basis, but supports the fighter flight purchase, there is only one thing to say: it must be an internal confusion in the SV because the party is now under government responsibility to propose the first step in the greatest Norwegian purchase of American fighter aircraft with associated bombs and rockets. There is also reason to remember that it is the red-green government, including SV, that has claimed that it can weaken Norway's preparedness and our ability to assert Norwegian sovereignty, unless the Storting here and now decides to buy the first four US fighter aircraft of type F-35. When SV is responsible for proposing a combat aircraft investment that surpasses all previous weapons investments, perhaps the SV parliamentary leader should go a little slower in the doors – rather than go after others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5407	A collapse proposition sounds a bit staggering. Major decisions have been made in landfills. Now we're going to have a big decision that might cost Norway 72 billion. kr. For that, we've got a proposition of two A3 sheets. In fact, it seems to the rapporteur that it is important to point out that there is also a lot of other things that are mentioned in the setting and not just the purchase of a fighter aircraft, and spent the time on it at the beginning when he was going to present the two A3 sheets. The Left has also read the hearing and the questions raised by the Committee. I understand that they have had to do it. The left supports buying new fighter planes. We have also supported doing so in partnership with the Americans, but we believe that before a final decision is made, the price tag must be clearer and the Council of State must be able to answer more clearly. We support many of the comments in the setting. This is perhaps the largest investment we've ever made in the history of mainland Norway, and we support the remarks where it says that the background we have to do it is'very little satisfactory'. We also believe that this purchase should have been seen in a larger context. As big investments as this is about, can quickly go out on other parts of the defense, and it should have been seen in a whole, before you make the decisions. As I said, the Left supports the purchase of flights. We also support the choice of supplier, but we are uncertain whether the number we have talked about is correct. And we're very critical of the process. Such investments must be seen in full and in advance, and we must be safer in terms of price. I have to admit, I don't think we would have been able to make such a decision today if it hadn't been for us to be one of the richest countries in the world. Any other nation must have been more careful with their money. As we see, for example. in the other neighbouring countries, which have selected the same supplier, they have chosen other and much wider processes. In Denmark, a defence settlement has been concluded on 33 sides. They used more than two A3 sheets to agree on the future of their defense. As today is a little sign of the comparison, I have to say that I also wanted such a broad settlement and such a good treatment in advance could have been the starting point. So to put it simply, I agree with all the comments that the representative Solhjell referred to. That is why we are promoting the proposal we are promoting today, to have a postponement, to have an overall purchase and to see it in relation to all the defence investments. Yes, it is that the Council of State has said that we can risk not being able to maintain a satisfactory preparedness, but because there is a ‘can’ here, and because much of the other information we receive is also so unclear, we are at the heart of the problem, namely that the information is not good enough. That is why we do not choose to take responsibility for this purchase here today, and I am promoting this proposal that is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5428	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has promoted the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5431	As we have all heard, 30 years ago in this Chamber a major and important decision was taken that has shaped the defence and security policy of two generations. The purchase of F-16 was large and demanding, but necessary for the country. F-16 is now moving towards the end of its lifetime, and today's politicians must show the same determination as our predecessors. In the summer of 2009, Stortinget made the choice that Joint Strike Fighter, so-called F-35, will replace F-16 as our next fighter aircraft. By deciding on the acquisition now of four F-35 for training purposes, we ensure decisive time for building skills and thus an appropriate transition between F-16 and F-35. Therefore, I am pleased that a unanimous increase seems to support this acquisition. Our country needs a conflict prevention threshold, a defence that marks national sovereignty. This has been a main line of Norwegian security policy since World War II. Without a modern fighter weapon, we will weaken this ability and not give the next generation the same protection that F-16 has given us. F-16 is now going into its last decade. It would be different The Norwegian big thing to close your eyes for such a fact. The process that started early in the 1990s, when a main milestone next year when the Stortinget will decide on the main acquisition of new fighter aircraft. Over the last few weeks, the debate has focused on numbers. Some of the debaters have also tried to set the defenses against each other, claiming that F-35 would then destroy the economy of the other defence sectors. Norway was able to accept 72 aircraft in 1980, and an overall defense has been operating them for 30 years. Now we're planning on how to carry out the new acquisition. The army needs an air defense with modern fighter aircraft, the Air Force needs the Naval Defense, and the Maritime Defense needs the Army. It's a good news for the whole defense that we're able to replace F-16. The Government plans to provide a comprehensive and comprehensive decision-making basis before the Storting will decide on the main acquisition next year. The focus on costs is important, and I would like to thank the Committee for the open consultation and also the many good issues in the process. It has helped to provide an enhanced and more detailed decision-making basis for the acquisition of the first four aeroplanes. We're talking about four planes and costs within a framework of 4.8 billion. kr, not 56 aircraft. I would also like to stress that the Stortinget was presented with the total lifetime cost of the acquisition of 56 fighter aircraft of 145 billion. kr – 2008-krona, present value – at the forefront of landfill treatment two years ago. An update of this number size depends on some fundamental choices. The choice of the base solution for the fighter aircraft, the choice of the maintenance concept and the choice of the training concept remains and will all affect the lifetime costs. Only when these questions are clarified does the government have the basis for providing an updated lifetime calculation. Of course, this will be externally quality assured and will form part of the basis on which Stortinget will be presented in spring 2012 related to the new long-term defence plan, which will also decide on the overall acquisition of fighter aircraft. Someone's trying to create a picture of a galloping price increase for F-35. That's not right. The updated picture shows that the total purchase costs have been increased by about 2 pst., compared to what we presented to the Stortinget in St.prp. No 36 for 2008-2009. F-35 will therefore cost 1 billion. kr more in purchases than we planned in 2008/2009. The development of Joint Strike Missile, in close cooperation between the Defence and Industry, is one of the most important Norwegian weapons systems for F-35. It also has significant industrial market potential. The political objective is that industrial cooperation should provide value creation in Norway of the same size as the purchase price. I am pleased that the Storting has also underlined the importance of realising the industrial potential. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased to be able to record that a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence joins the establishment of new border guard stations in South Varanger, the construction of new command relays and a leisure fair at Jørstadmoen, and an increase in the cost framework for the logistics project in the LOS programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5463	My first question to the Council of State is this: after and after registering the way in which the committee has dealt with the proposition, the number of questions asked and the way in which the hearing was conducted, does the Council of State believe that the Storting's demand for more information was unreasonable, and that the Storting should have been aware of everything and found out by itself through the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5468	I think we have had a good process on this important matter, and I have been pleased with both the hearing and the opportunity to elaborate on the aspects of the flight purchase related to the questions that have been asked. However, I have also been concerned about finding out that we have had a robust cost calculation that turns out to be a good target, even though we see a small cost excess that is calculated for just over 2 pst. It will be up to me and the government to ensure such a good project follow-up to the flight purchase as far as possible to implement the decision taken by the Stortinget in 2009 and which is a very important decision for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5473	Thank you, of course, for the first answer. My next question is about industrial contracts. The Committee notes that the ‘must be of the same size as the acquisition costs’. I see that is extremely clear speech from Stortinget's side. My question to the Council of State will then be as follows: If you don't have the power to achieve it, what is the Council of State's answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5480	Yes, there is a common ambition for government and growth, which we use a lot of power to help implement. It is known that the ‘best value’ principle underpins the industrial programme, and therefore we have been offensive by the government in terms of also helping to identify Norwegian suppliers and what they can contribute to the project. So far Norwegian suppliers have actually had good success. We have contracts in excess of what the Norwegian State has so far paid out. But I know this is an important and demanding job in front of both the Norwegian industry and the government. Here we want to be active to ensure that we carry out the ambition of both government and big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5487	Both the committee chairman and the representative, Højbräten, have made a very clear comment today on the strong criticism that the government has been subjected to because of a lack of procedure, and that the committee has simply done the department's job of obtaining factual information on the matter. It is a criticism that the Council of State has so far chosen not to comment. But most critically, in fact, one of the government parties itself has been, that is, a real insider in the process that even transcends the opposition gallantly to demand review, and that should make any member of the Storting turn all the warning lights on. What is the response of the Council of State to this insider who simply demands an examination of the defective process?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5494	I do not agree that we have conducted a lack of procedure, but I have stressed the good cooperation that has been between the Ministry and the Committee to provide detailed information. So we've had a discussion about which price calculations it's possible to get at this point in time. There I have asked questions about both the lifetime costs and the base choice. What are the alternative calculations that the opposition has actually seen to be able to present at this point, given that some of the central choices still remain? Of course, it is a matter both for the Swedish Government and for the government that such large projects are subject to external quality assurance. It's in the system that the government follows for these big projects, and that's going to happen in this case, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5501	The Council of State says in its reply to the representative Ellingen that it has been a good process. It hasn't been at all. This has been a very poor process. It is tempting to ask the Council of State the simple question: why does the Council of State think that the Storting in its treatment after the hearing and after reading the proposition asked a dozen questions for answers? It's obviously not because it's been a good process. So I hope the Council of State wasn't serious when she used the expression "a good process." I hope the Council of State will go back on that and assume that the Storting wants a completely different process when, if we don't have too much time to adopt the actual flight purchase, and that we expect a completely different amount of both information and quality in the information coming through the first proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5506	I am pleased that we have received detailed information on the various aspects of the project. This was also a lot of information that was posted on the Ministry's website on the same day as the proposition was made. But the reason I've been happy about both the hearing and the subsequent questions is that I think it's important and proper to document also that information in connection with the Storting's handling of the case when the committee has wanted it. This is, as I said, the implementation of a major decision taken in 2009, which will also be followed up with the total acquisition of aircraft next year, and which therefore, on my part, has been set up for a detailed and broad review, not least by the economy of the large total acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5511	The majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee has criticised the procedure underpinning the recommendation of the Council of State to the Storting and the information contained in the proposal. The Council of State has answered this criticism by saying thank you for the questions and the hearing, and that is all right. However, this means that the majority of the Committees delete the Department of the Council of State in relation to the information base of the Stortinge in this case. It does not help to refer to the website of the Department. It's not where the Storting retrieves its information. That is what the government is doing to Parliament. That is why I have to ask, since this is not the first time; this also happened when the case was submitted in 2008: Will the Council of State ensure that the Department for the future makes investment proposals with a completely different basis and more information to the Storting than has been the case in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5518	Many of the discussions relate to the possible calculations, not least to the lifetime cost calculations. Since neither government nor government has made decisions on base selection, on the maintenance concept, on the training concept, we have chosen to adhere to the lifetime cost calculation presented in 2008 and of course informed that it will be thoroughly revised and presented in full scope in relation to the long-term proposition next year. For me, it is important that the information requested by Stortinget is, of course, available, and also that this has been shown to confirm that the cost calculations made prior to 2008 have been robust, and that fortunately we have been able so far to plan and avoid getting the big surprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5523	I am using this opportunity to ask a question that I have asked the Council of State three times before without a reply, and it is the following question: When the Ministry of Defence will go further in contact with Lockheed Martin about the deliveries of the new fighter aircraft, what action will the Council of State take to ensure that any exceedances in addition to what she is familiar with today will be covered by the seller and not by the buyer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5529	The contracts concluded in January 2014 are expected to be fixed-price contracts. Of course, we plan for contracts that have liabilities well within the estimates given in the proposition, and it is obvious with such contracts that the supplier takes responsibility for any costs incurred in excess of the contract sum that are agreed upon. But, as I said, the goal is of course to stay well within the estimates presented here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5534	We also make important decisions tonight in this matter, but the main decision did well to enlarge and government in 2008-2009 when we actually left the leaders and chose which type of aircraft etc. We were going to acquire. It's very important decisions we make, it's very forward-looking decisions. I think there are many countries that envy us, that we are able to make an economic choice of so efficient and so forward-looking aircraft to strengthen our defence and uphold our sovereignty. It also creates a solid credibility in NATO and among our allies that we are reaching out as that country with the most representative, efficient and modernized defenses in the world. I also think that we should include ourselves in this matter. There are now some questions about the economy, about information, etc., but the government has followed this up in an excellent way towards Stortinget. Changes in the multi-national development programme for F-35 have now also been implemented and have resulted in delays. It also affects the Norwegian F-35 programme, of course. But the acquisition of four F-35 training aircraft for delivery in 2016 with the subsequent main delivery of new fighter aircraft in 2018 is just for an appropriate transition. We're going to train the staff, etc., so we're fully capable of this transition phase. It helps to ensure the most flexible, cost-effective and rational transition between F-16 and F-35, and after all, we're going to have 56 aircraft, the best in the world. In doing so, we also maintain a satisfactory fighter flight capacity in the transition phase between these two types of aircraft. We have great ambitions in the northern regions. We need to maintain the activity there, and this is also about possible enlargements in the future. The decision on the main acquisition will be taken in 2012. Several contracts must be on the road in the case of Norwegian industry. It's very important. The industrial value creation can be big here, and there will also be several other speakers coming up with it. I'll finally get into it with information to Stortinget. I think that in the points here are a bunch of interesting things. I would like to mention the national helicopter competence centre. Already in April 2005, there were four very far-sighted women and men in the Stortinget, namely Marit Nybakk, Gunnar Halvorsen, Tore Nordtun and Marit Arnstad – some of whom are in the hall today – who made a proposal for a centre of expertise and a simulator for helicopters in Norway. That's it now. The Committee took a good view of the matter at the time. This was to be followed up. Six years later, in this setting, such a national competence centre is now located with helicopter simulator activity. It is said in very positive terms that we will join in this and follow-up with the industry in Rogaland and Sola. A very important, forward-looking signal is now being given, and the State will also contribute to the creation of such a large European centre of competence. This applies not only to the military and international training and maintenance, but also to the activities of Norwegian oil and gas industries, which require much greater safety and training for the personnel employed in that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5547	So I'm a member of a political party that maybe is the party that has cheered to the greatest extent for the decision to replace the fighter planes that the Norwegian defense has. We've always waited for a proposition from the government on the replacement of the planes, the purchase of test aircraft and a cost estimate for what will be the total price of 56 fighter aircraft. We will vote in favour of the Government's proposal and the unanimous position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence today. We do that because we think it's right to replace the planes. We do so because we believe that Norway needs a solid air defence that, together with the Navy and the army, will provide Norway with the ability to defend itself and that it will be able to participate in international operations for a long, long time in the future. But we were disappointed on May 6th this year when the government's proposal came – with a wretched presentation, a syllable reason and with elements that created more uncertainty about this matter than it made clear. That's why we got the hearing, so we got, as the representative Myrli had, a big round in the media on this, not least on the basis of the head of the Evening Post on Tuesday, June 7, i.e. the day after the hearing, under the heading "The cat out of the bag". What both the Evening Post and others of us have questioned is the cost estimate. In St. pp. No 36 for 2008-2009, which was dealt with by Stortinget on 8 June 2009, the government wrote on page 7 of this proposition: ‘The price offer from Lockheed Martin for JSF was significantly lower than the offer from SAAB on Gripen NG with comparable configuration.’ SAAB's offer was 20 billion. kr, guaranteed by the Swedish State. So today we're not talking about 20 billion. kr, or the 18 br. kr for which it is obvious that the government and the majority of the population were targeted in 2008-2009 – i.e. 18 billion. kr. What creates uncertainty, and what creates confusion, is that government and government party representatives claim to reach the price of 18 billion dollars. kr from 2008 has now reached 72 bn, there is an exceedance of 1 bn. So 18 plus 1 is 72, the government thinks. So it's 72 billion. We now have to decide. The Committee's recommendation is that we give the Ministry of Defence the task of launching the investment project within the given cost framework, which is therefore 72 billion. kr, for aeroplanes. We were told today by the Council of State that the purchase of the aircraft will be based on fixed-price contracts. I could ask, why didn't she say that during the hearing? But I'm going to refrain from it. We got a completely different input from a big-time representative from the government parties, the representative Solhjell, who called for caution, and said that we now have to follow price developments closely. It should be a price development, then, and not a fixed price contract? So there's still uncertainty about this. I would like to conclude that the Progress Party is voting for the vote, not because we think it is glitteringly good, but because this matter is so important that we have to make this decision today, even though the government itself has created an uncertainty about this that makes the government have itself to thank for the fact that the situation surrounding this decision has become as it has become.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5570	It's probably not going to be like a bomb in this room that I'm going to concentrate on industrial programs and the development of JSM. I do that because industrial deliveries for the Norwegian industry in connection with the fighter aircraft purchase are very important. On the part of the Workers' Party, we will once again stress the importance of industrial value creation in relation to the acquisition of new aircraft having to be of the same size as the purchase costs. Today, when we decide to move forward with phase 2 of JSM – Joint Strike Missile – we take a decision that could lead to a new industrial venture for Norway. Firstly, it can facilitate the Norwegian defence being able to have a missile that no one else can provisionally move in their class, and secondly, it has a chance to integrate the missile on the plane so that the partner countries choose to buy JSM together with F-35, giving us a technology development that allows us to continue to have the defence industry in high-tech world-class up here on the mountain. I am pleased that it is a unanimous committee that has chosen to support the government's proposal for a billion dollars to JSM Phase 2. JSM development started in 2008 and will run until 2014. The missile operation is a technological spearhead for Kongsberg Defence Systems and has been the main activity of that company since the 1960s. While there are five companies that so far have contracts to deliver parts to the aircraft itself, JSM can generate over 100 subcontractors significantly for decades if Norway succeeds in promoting JSM to partner countries in the fighter aircraft project. If the integration of JSM fails, the project will end after phase 2. I hope, of course, that this won't be a reality. Norway is well positioned, not only because there is a need for the capacity represented by the missile, but also because the US defence is in the process of selecting a new missile supplier and that other partner countries have also shown interest. It is very positive that we have a government in place to assist the Norwegian defence industry with both money, ownership and political influence, so that it is possible for a small defence industry that we succeed in selling to other countries in a market that is extremely protective. At the same time, we have very strict rules for the export of defence equipment, and we have good control of those exports. The U.S. actually buys a whole 98 pst. of all its defence material by itself. It is therefore a sign of very high quality when, for example: Norwegian air protection is purchased to monitor the airspace above Capitol Hill and the White House. Purchases of new fighter aircraft are so-called ‘best value’ projects. That means that we cannot demand repurchase, as we normally do in defence acquisitions. Nevertheless, we are committed to securing industrial contracts equivalent to the acquisition value. It has been working with industry for a long time, well anchored in both major communications on cooperation between defence and industry and a separate strategy linked to this purchase to position Norwegian companies. This is important. In addition, general, common industrial policy instruments are also used against the defence industry. In my home town, Kongsberg, we see results of government policy, among others. through a new composite plant. Through the Joint Strike Missile industry participation on the Norwegian side will increase to more than 20 enterprises. In addition, the Ministry of Defence approved the further development of ammunition for F-35 by Nammos in autumn 2010. At the same time, it is important to stress that our large industrial locomotives, which have contracts and may now have contracts linked to F-35, have a responsibility to involve small and medium-sized Norwegian subcontractors also in the technology development for which this provides opportunities. It must also benefit the subcontractors, not just the large industrial locomotives. Similar options have been identified. 70 B.C.E. kr over the production time of F-35. It is essential that both industry and Norwegian authorities press both Lockheed Martin and the US authorities to realise this potential. Here, the Workers' Party expects the government to follow up what is now a unanimous growing expectation of assignment to the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5603	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5606	The Kampflykopen is Norway's largest investment in mainland Norway. The acquisition of combat light will be essential for the capabilities and operationality of the Air Force. Choice of the type of fighter aircraft was taken by the Stortinget one year ago, and as the only party, the Advance Party was skeptical of the process. The progress party proposed that the matter be sent back to the government for better investigation. We will see in retrospect how necessary it was in view of all the mess that has arisen. Therefore, it is not surprising that in this case, too, we are concerned about the investigation and the process around the purchase of four training planes. We also proposed that this part of the proposition be treated only until the autumn. One of the reasons for our scepticism about the progress of this acquisition is that the government has accelerated the process in the light of the race described in the Inner. S. No 299 for 2008-2009. As we read and interpret this, there are no leads here that require us to acquire four training flights outside the normal contract. On the other hand, we see that the government is saying the following: ‘A training aircraft order now will confirm our credibility as a partner and customer in the multinational F-35 cooperation. This is not least important in order to ensure Norwegian industrial tasks related to acquisition.’ This is probably a good point, but it doesn't explain why the timeline has changed. It is created by the government confusion about the costs associated with the acquisition of fighter aircraft. The government now maintains its figures and believes they are real and thus represents a good basis for decision-making. The Prom wants a replacement for our F-16 aircraft. Of course, we want Norway to have aeroplanes that meet the requirements that the Defense believes are necessary, but we are concerned that such decisions are made on a solid and unwavering basis. Therefore, we need to be able to ask questions about the development of costs and operating costs in order to try to get a picture of how many taxpayers will agree to this acquisition. The propulsion party will follow the aircraft acquisitions closely in the future and will be a driver for as thorough a process as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5622	Proposition 110 S for 2010–2011 on investment in the Defence is, in my opinion, equivalent to a number of defence needs. Norway is often referred to as the external border of Schengen, and then there is the border between Russia and Norway I want to mention. The border guard service is managed by the Norwegian Border Commissioner. The chief of police in East Finland has legal responsibility, and the defence has the operative part with limited police authority. I, the undersigned and the representative Myrli, the Advocate General, were a few weeks ago in South Varanger, more specifically at Svanvik border station and at the border crossing at Storskog in Pasvik. The reports from the border commissioner and the chief of police on the operational capability of the defence were very positive. The defense is currently doing a very professional job in its enforcement of the border agreement with Russia. The defense patrols the entire border daily, and it is under constant observation from various lookouts along the border. Svanvik border station is a station built in the 1950s and 1960s. The feedback from the NK on the Garrison in South Varanger was that the capacity, facilities and functionality of the border station in relation to today’s standard are no longer sufficient. The tour we got at the border station showed this clearly, and built it here is talking about, appears to be very tight and poorly suited for the border crossings that use this station every day. It is therefore very gratifying that the government wants to get started on improving the conditions for the border hunters. The proposal to replace the six relatively small border stations by two larger ones, one north of the border, the other south, is very good. The objectives of the new border stations are to have buildings that are better suited to the needs of border services. Buildings shall include, inter alia: have its own kennel and be better for the soldiers, who today have far more equipment than they had 10 to 20 years ago. Then you also get border stations that have larger facilities and better space for it. Furthermore, a new patrol cabin is to be built. This cabin is also important for the operationality of border guards, as it will be located in an area isolated in large parts of the winter. The new lanes that are also proposed are very important, and for two reasons: one is the hunter’s need for effective accessibility, where Pasvikelva is not used. The other is the consideration of nature, and the wounds that motorized travel causes nature. Although the garrison in South Varanger is doing very well today, I hope that the new building will be started as soon as possible. I am therefore pleased to invest 268 million. kr is presented to Stortinget today. Perhaps then you will be able to get the construction started already in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5643	So far in the debate, let's just say that there's a full consensus that Norway needs new fighter planes. My good colleague, Jan Arild Ellingsen, said, "Now all doubt is gone. Those were wise words, and I hope he speaks on behalf of his entire party. He was strong and clear in his speech, and I had really hoped that the representative Ellingsen was not traveling in Afghanistan last week, sailing if it was certainly very interesting and instructive, but that instead he had been in the Storting and said the same to his party traps, when we discussed the matter in the committee last week. So Ellingsen also said that the table is catching. But I guess there's no disagreement about whether we're going to buy F-35. Today's decision about the four training planes does not depend on what the Storting has previously decided that we should buy the F-35. We're not going to have a rematch on that decision, are we? Today's debate is not about flight choices. The debate today is about getting the first planes in 2016, 2017 or 2018. I have not heard anyone in today's debate say that we are not going to buy the F-35. Dagfinn Højbrätt mentioned the concern in the United States about the increase in the development costs of the F-35 programme. Yes, I understand that concern in the United States, because the additional costs incurred in the development programme are to be covered by the United States. We're not going to be able to cover those costs. Our amount for the development program is fixed – $125 million. We need to distinguish between the costs of aircraft development and the costs of aeroplanes when they are to be delivered to Norway from 2018. I have the impression that many people mix very much, both in the debate here today, in the media and in the debate before, in the case of F-35. Several have quoted the Evening Post. Yes, there's certainly reason, because there's been a lot of strange things there. Maybe some people could ask questions about what's going on and have been the Evening Post's agenda on the fighter aircraft issue. In my opinion, direct campaign journalism has been run for the benefit of the competitor who was unable to deliver aircraft that met the requirements of the new fighter aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5654	This has been, to a small extent, a debate on aviation investment, Joint Strike Missile or the other investments, but most of all a debate on the basis of decision-making. In the 1990s, there was a discussion between government and growth — and a process in progress — in order to slim down documents from government to the Stortinget. There was so much to read that you would like a little more effective communication. There were those who at the time warned that it might become too thin, and that it would lead to an extensive exchange of letters between the government and the big business. Of course, it is the Storting itself that defines when the Stortinget believes that it has the necessary decision-making basis, just as the representative Skovholt Gitmark also has to accept that it is the Council itself that has to decide whether she thinks the process between the Storing, Committee and herself has been good or not. But in this case there are also questions that it is not possible to answer today, such as lifetime costs, which depend to a large extent on the base selection and the maintenance concept. There will be important factors that we will first decide on next year. Therefore, this decision needs to be balanced between accepting some uncertainty if the two-yearly calculations are well-sustained, or whether we should risk solving the F-16-F-35 exchange and risking impaired preparedness over a period of time. So far, the calculations show that the 2008 figures are good. I think Peter N. Myhre should study the extensive answers from the department a little bit more thoroughly, based on the numbers he operated on in his post. It is also possible that the most important factors to influence lifetime costs will be dealt with ourselves, namely base selection and maintenance concept. Therefore, it is not possible to argue or get away from the responsibility that everyone now has to bear and take for the decision we are making. I also assume that the opposition parties accept responsibility for the balance they agree to do between the two considerations we have to take tonight. Of course, you have to rely on the calculations and assessments presented by the Department and the Council of State – that is, in the nature of the matter – but we all have to be involved and take responsibility for choosing the decision today, not risking anything we don't want in a few years' time. We must stand for that – or to quote the main speaker of the Progress Party: it is about taking political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5666	Let me start with a greeting back to the President-in-Office: the trip in Afghanistan was very nice. Although I know you had an exciting hearing, I would have made the same choice one more time – with all due respect for the Storting. The representative Myrli said that the flight selection was decided – it was not a problem, because that decision had been made earlier. It is possible that I am wrong, but I have also had an understanding that a decision here was only valid until the next decision was taken. It is probably a fact that both governments and magnification have changed their position along the way in a matter. Or have I misunderstood? It might be interesting to hear if it's such that everything the Storing and Government do is absolute. I'm afraid that's not true. If so, why are we concerned about the contracts to industry? If this race is done, can we worry about it? Then there is no problem anymore, because then we have made the choice: We will have them anyway, regardless of costs and the whole package. I really don't think you want to. I think you want to be hand-on when it comes to both economics and more things. To the representative Gustavsen: Nothing would be better than if we could get the contracts here in the country, that we could get deliveries equivalent to the purchase – I fully share that. It would be perfect and great. But the challenge is, as the representative himself said, that we have a ‘best value’ situation. So we can end up not getting it. And then what is the answer? I realized that the Council of State did not answer my question to her about it earlier today. So then I'm back to where the case rapporteur was: we've made the choice. We're going to have the planes cost whatever it costs, and the reservations that we've taken have a variable substance. So to the SV parliamentary leader, whom I registered, I was concerned about the position of the Progress Party: we have therefore taken the responsibility of the representative of Sven Roald Hansen. We see that the plane is now going, to say it that way. We're going to be co-responsive and say yes to buying the four planes. I record that the SV parliamentary leader does not comment that he has then had the honour of ensuring that SV as a government party contributes to strengthening the US defence industry. It's a happy day for those of us who think it's smart. So to the Council of State, the Council of State is talking about the goodwill of government and big business. Yes, that goodwill is primarily due to Storting's desire to get more facts on the table because it was defective. So the council says something that fascinated me. She said, when you promoted the proposition for Stortinget, you put a lot of information on FD's website. With all possible respect: The Ministry of Defence's website is not a wall paper for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5683	There are many statements in this room that have gone on that this is a joyous day for it and that part of the country when we get a new joke. As an old airman, I have to say that in this way it is a joyous day to witness that a unanimous collapse goes in to start the purchase of the new fighter planes – or the fighter planes, as they are described today. I've never been in doubt that this is a right choice, for many reasons. What I would have liked to see, however, had been said when we made the decision, was that we should have the fighter plane that gives us the best chance to run that defense of both our own country and other nations that we are going to be on. I would have liked to see that the price of it, because I think the connection with the United States, to the level of training and the technology environment there is more crucial than the possible differences in dollars. So it should never have been brought in. We might not have had this debate today either, because the debate that has been taking place today is not about buying a fighter plane, but it is about the price of it. What we've learned through the F-16 program is that being able to operate with our friends in the Western world is invaluable, and it's going to be exactly the same – perhaps even more so – when we're talking about F-35 in the coming years. The fact that the program is delayed is no surprise. It is so complicated programs that it is unlikely that a fighter plane has been created without any delay to the extent that we are talking about today. That the price tag also ticks up a little bit, is no surprise. What is now important in the future, and I think Laila Gustavsen pointed it out quite well, is that we are using the purchase we are making today, for everything it is worth, to guarantee that Joint Strike Missile will be part of the program – both because it is by today’s date enough the best weapon that can be used in such a role, and because it will mean an invaluable amount for the Norwegian defence industry. With some experience from the kind of negotiations we know it's not easy, so I'm going to ask the Council of State to use all the intelligence that is possible to make this happen to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5696	I listened with great interest to the old general's words! In the debate on the purchase of F-16 in Stortinget on 6 June 1975 Prime Minister Trygve Bratteli said: ‘The main question is this, which several have repeatedly asked: Is it necessary, if one wants a defence, also to have a reasonable time air defence? It is primarily a matter for one to respond to in the context of the long-term plan available here.’» Those were wise words of a wise man. Bratteli, the government and the Stortinget gave the answer: One would go for the acquisition of new fighter planes. In the debate, the F-16 acquisition was supported by names such as Per-Hysing Dahl, Guttorm Hansen, Lars Korvald, Odvar Nordli and Hallvard Eika, to name a few. It was otherwise set by five hours to the debate in 1975. It was times, it was times! In 1975 the F-16 was the solution. In 2008 and 2009, the solution was F-35. It is in 2011, and it will be in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5712	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox That concludes the debate – after all, in less than five hours! [[See page 5007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5721	Then Stortinget goes to voting on the case no. 1–21 on today’s map – which is in practice yesterday’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5745	Twelve proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 2–4, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 5, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6-10, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party, 11 and 12, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5764	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make a thorough assessment of the resources that the Ethics Work of the State pension fund abroad will require in the coming years, given very high ambitions for the follow-up to the ethical guidelines, and to inform the size accordingly appropriately.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government of the State budget for 2012 to submit proposals for increased resources for the ethics work of the State pension fund abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5786	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6-10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explore the possibility of setting up a Norwegian capital management environment in the light of the investments made through the State pension fund abroad. This can preferably be done by requiring a non-resident management company to establish or extend its Norwegian business.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a case where SPU splits into two by 95 pst. be managed according to. passive index strategy and that the remaining 5 pst. be managed according to. active management strategy. [[5 pst.]] Active part current practice, while the second part of the fund is split into two different index funds. [[95 p.m.]] One is subject to NBIM, while the other is being tendered. As SPU's property portfolio is built up to 5 pst. by the fund, the index managed part is reduced from 95 pst. up to 90 pst.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the enterprises currently excluded from the State pension fund foreign investment portfolio on the basis of rigorous practices in the ethical guidelines.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a broad assessment in the next year’s Communication of how different aspects of SPU’s management, such as the ethical guidelines and the active management, could potentially harm Norway’s reputation abroad.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government, before significant changes are made to the reference index for the bond part of the SPU, to provide the SPU with analyses and assessments of the consequences of such a conversion. The analyses should include assessments of how the changes will affect the risk and expected returns in the fund. [[both in normal times and in periods of financial instability]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5823	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present in next year’s Communication on the State Pension Fund more details on the costs associated with the management of the SPU, including details on the latest budget approved by the Ministry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5838	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4 from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to instruct the Bank of Norway to enter into working arrangements with its administrators for the future, which also include downside bonuses. This shall also apply to external AIFMs with which NBIM agrees.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish an investment fund aimed at investing in enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors, with special emphasis on innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies. Through its activities, the Fund must underpin Norway’s position as an energy nation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish an investment fund aimed at investing in sustainable businesses and projects in poor countries and emerging markets, with the objective of a global investment framework of at least 10 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5865	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the next evaluation of the State pension fund abroad, to carry out an investigation into alternative ways of organising the fund, including the question of setting up its own monetary policy committee in the Bank of Norway, so that the Governing Council can concentrate more on the competence of capital management or a model where the management of the SPU is separated from the Bank of Norway, and whether there should be one or more funds in the course of the process.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e5991	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 4-12, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 13, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1-12 is included in the setting on pages 49 and 50. Proposal No. 13 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce a sample to review and reduce the total number of laws, regulations, reporting requirements, etc. regulating the municipal sector and local democracy.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6023	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4-10 and proposal No. 12 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government of the State budget for 2012 to propose an increase in the revenues of municipalities of 1.5 billion. SEK in addition to what the government has signaled in the municipal bill 2012 and that these funds are earmarked as operational means for municipal care of the elderly.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government of the State budget for 2012 to propose an increase of 1,0 billion in the revenues of the municipalities. dollars in addition to what the government has signaled in the Municipal Proposition 2012 and that these funds are earmarked for primary school.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government of the State budget for 2012 to propose an increase in the revenues of municipalities of 200 million. SEK in addition to what the government has signaled in the Municipal Proposition 2012 and that these funds are earmarked as operational means for the protection of municipal children.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government of the State budget for 2012 to propose an increase in the revenues of municipalities of 300 million. SEK in addition to the government signaled in the Municipal Proposition 2012 and that these funds are earmarked as operational means for municipal drug treatment and psychiatry that can give a more dignified life to drug addicts.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to propose an increase of 2,0 billion in the income of the county municipalities. in addition to the government signaled in the Municipal Proposition 2012 and that these are earmarked for the maintenance and upgrading of the county road network.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to present proposals for laws that give the most nurturing legal rights to meet basic needs – regardless of where they live – by 1 January 2012.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a new quality regulation, based on new legislation, defining the basic needs clearly and clearly.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for government-driven financing of the nursery sector, based on the number of children and the number of hours per nursery.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6076	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide the necessary technological infrastructure to enable the government to implement technological solutions in the future in the context of a grant scheme for the construction of nursing homes.’ The left has announced that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6093	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure the necessary local coherence between the funding base, industrial development and service production in the local government sector. In the 2012 government budget, therefore, tax revenue as a share of total revenue must be about 50 p.m., and the government asks the government to submit proposals to municipal taxpayers to meet this objective.» The left has announced that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6110	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that 4.25 pst. the company tax is returned to the municipalities.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals involving equal treatment of the municipalities in the action zone.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6151	During the debate Trond Helleland put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to start the process of abolishing the county municipality as a self-governed level of government, so that the county elections in 2011 will be the very last.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6194	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 8-10, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-10, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement measures to improve the dialogue between Jews and Muslims in Norway.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess changes in criminal law in order to ensure stronger responses to hate crime.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to invite the Islamic Council to a real dialogue on the link with the European Fat Council and its leader, Yusuf al-Qaradawi.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6230	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 and proposals Nos. 3-7, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Holocaust Day is marked annually in all schools.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better education in the school with a view to preventing Jewish hatred, including compulsory teaching of the Holocaust in relevant disciplines, better learning material and better financial support schemes to enable all classes to go on a study trip to concentration camps.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for targeted measures to be taken against the bullying of Jewish students in school.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to meet the request of the Mosaic religious community to support the renewal of existing security equipment and to support continuous surveillance by the Jewish institutions in Norway.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better continuous monitoring of anti-Jewish websites and extreme environments.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a legal basis for a ban on the violent and strongly anti-Semitic organisation Hizb ut-Tahrir.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6273	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that teacher education is given a stronger emphasis on knowledge of anti-semitism and holocaust’. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6306	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government in the extension of the salary line in 2011 to implement measures that ensure a pay gap for the low-wage professions with a focus on the public sector educational groups and as a result of ensuring that municipalities are fully compensated for such a wage increase.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6333	In the course of the debate, Mr Starheim presented four proposals, the proposals No. 1-4, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘When collecting personal data from public registers to external bodies, it shall be provided with information about which information is disclosed, to whom and for which purpose. This principle shall also apply to the tax lists.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The exchange of personal data between institutions responsible for children, for example between kindergarten and school, should be based on the basic requirement for informed consent of the supervisors.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘School class lists are exempted from public law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6362	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to promote clarification of paragraphs 6 to 3 of the Equation Act. 1 which makes it clear that the provision does not authorise the use of information relating to the tolling of the tolls for external purposes by the Tax Directorate.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6499	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-7, by Mr Torgeira Tåldal, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right-wing proposals No. 8-14, by Mr Torgair Tåldal, on behalf of the Progressive Party, proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right-wing Proposals No. 17 and 18, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 19-24, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–18 is included in the setting on pages 33 and 34. Proposals Nos. 19–24 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 to 24, from the left. Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to review the entire Agricultural Contracting Institute with a view to simplifying negotiations to deal exclusively with grant schemes which have a direct impact on farmers’ income potential. A proposal for a simplified agricultural agreement shall be submitted in the context of the notified agricultural notification.’;» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the Norwegian export subsidies for cheese production through the turnover tax applicable from 1 July 2011.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is actively asking for a future WTO agreement through clear concessions, not least with regard to the removal of all export subsidies.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a guided closure of fur farming in Norway.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government requests the closure of all support schemes for forest roads and granular planting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6560	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As from the year 2012 onwards, future tax changes may not be notified as part of negotiated agricultural agreements.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6577	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a review of the means of organic farming. The review shall be completed by next year’s agricultural settlement.’;» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6594	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, through the agricultural settlement, asks for the income of farmers to be equal to that of other groups in society.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6609	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the right. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The budget requires the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to ensure that the framework conditions which cannot be defined for longer periods enter into the annual budgetary procedure. The establishment for 2010 shall be continued as a transitional arrangement beyond the financial year 2011 with the amendments made to the revised national budget for 2011.’.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose measures that could give farmers greater opportunity to own the land they rent, and to propose the necessary legislative changes to stop the obligation to live and regulate the prices of agricultural property.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6633	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-14, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the necessary changes to the laws so that the obligation to live and operate and the regulation of the prices of agricultural property can be abolished.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The agricultural situation for 2011 is not accepted.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals for transfers to agriculture in line with other expenditure promoted in the State budget.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to specify the taxes and levies imposed on agriculture in connection with the submission of the 2012 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote concrete measures for the reduction of taxes on agriculture in the context of the submission of the 2012 State budget.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government requests the abolition of all production regulations, such as milk quotas, if the processing is carried out on its own farm.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a system of marketable production quotas for cows' milk which is not limited to county or regional level but which is country-wide.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6681	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–7, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to develop niche and special agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings before the Storting to amend the law on the prohibition of division of land.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a strategy for the red tape of agriculture in the presentation of the 2012 government budget.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to permit the sale of demonstrations and the provision of services by way of visits to or in connection with production premises.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all production regulations to be abolished if the processing is carried out on its own farm.’ [[such as milk quotas]] The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6721	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the co-operation rules to increase flexibility and improve the possibilities for a varied and versatile use structure.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the geographical restrictions and the number of participants for participation in joint ventures, as well as the quota cap.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e6957	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e7348	In the course of the debate, Mr Myhre put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure, as soon as possible, that a Norwegian frigate and associated vessels are sent to the NATO ‘Ocean Shield’ operation in order to contribute to international efforts to combat piracy in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Sea.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e7376	In the course of the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the left. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber and reads as follows: ‘The decision to acquire training aeroplanes is postponed until spring 2012, when an updated lifetime cost estimate and the next defence long term plan are available.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e7410	The representative, Mr Kolberg, has asked for the floor to put forward a proposal for a representative. On the basis of the first paragraph of Paragraph 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the Stortinge, the President will comply with this and at the same time request the consent of the Stortinge to waive the deadline for submission to the Administration of the Stortinge in the same paragraph. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e7417	On behalf of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Erna Solberg, Dagfinn Høybrätten, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to propose changes to the management of robbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e7422	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-16.ana.ud1149e7438	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
