ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e129	The representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, Marianne Aasen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Torfinn Opheim and Tor Bremer, who have been licensed, have again taken up the seat. The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e149	On behalf of the representatives of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, André Oktay Dahl, Michael Tetzschner and myself, I would like to propose better protection for children who are exposed to trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e154	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16.00 until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 5 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e216	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 2 hours and 30 minutes and allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from main speakers from each group and up to five lines, with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e227	We're dealing with today Report. St. 16 for 2010–2011, National Health and Care Plan 2011–2015. As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation. We have had three major cases at the same time, which have required a lot of work. But we've been working together on the good results that are now available. Many are in agreement, but in some places the political divides are made clear. There is a broad consensus on the major outlines. It is important when we make plans and laws with such a great impact on the health care of the future. What we are doing now is one of the greatest changes in health in our time, and much consensus ensures predictable and secure frameworks. The Committee has had a large and useful consultation round. Thank you to everyone who recorded to the committee - several of them can be found in the setting. National health and care plan shows the long-term path of the Interaction Reform, which was adopted last year. Here the main objectives are elaborated: proper treatment in the right place at the right time, and how to interact better. Last year we made the diagnosis, now comes the medicine. This is the political course that takes the legal, organisational, economic and professional steps needed to bring about the reform. Norwegian public health is good, and we have one of the world's best health services. However, sadly, someone feels that they are not getting the help they need when they need it or that the treatment is being fragmented. Our goal is to change and improve this. Prevention and public health permeate future health thinking. We need to prevent more in order to repair less. What we are preventing today will not have the greatest effect tomorrow. We have to think about the future to see the results. That's why school and kindergarten are some of the most important arenas to start at. We have to have patience, because change takes time. Municipalities are the main prevention arena, and they are now required to identify their own health challenges and initiate action. In this way, they affect the health of the population. They must also cooperate with the voluntary and non-profit sector, for health should be thought of at all stages and levels, and by all. The interaction reform gives municipalities more responsibility for their own citizens, and it must be economically interesting to initiate measures. Therefore, co-financing is introduced. Municipal co-financing is the link between the specialist health service and the municipality. The Committee disagrees on how this should be done. The majority believe that co-financing gives municipalities something to go after and is a positive intuition, while the minority wants another device, which I expect them to explain. Co-financing means that municipalities have to pay part of the bill on deposits. It will help to build up alternative services in municipalities, with a good care and care service that can do more than it does today. In co-financing, there are some important exceptions in the case of insertions, such as operations, births, and there is a ceiling of NOK 30000 for specific single-beds. In addition, there is no provision for municipal co-financing for mental health protection, drug treatment and housing in private training institutions. Although mental health and alcohol are now excluded, this does not mean that responsibility is not placed. Again, municipalities must think completely and focus on the whole life cycle, on housing and prevention. Municipalities and hospitals are required to conclude cooperation agreements to facilitate treatment close to the patient’s place of residence. Many municipalities have already established local medical centres where specialist health services and contract specialists are important partners. Such centres may contain different functions and contribute to faster treatment of good quality. This means that those who often need healthcare can receive treatment in their community. Municipalities shall be responsible for those with a clear picture of the disease, while where it is unclear or is a serious disease, the hospital is the place. So this change doesn't mean that patients don't go to hospitals anymore, but it'll be like today, that it's the disease image and the doctor together with the patient who decides where you're going to be. Municipalities need to build up offers for ready-to-print patients, with responsibility from the first day. They are also required to provide immediate help and daily services for patients in need of treatment or observation. This will be phased in until 2015. Municipalities can prevent the need for hospitalisation through accident prevention and drug prevention. They can reduce mismedication and they can add community pharmacists. A lot is already happening in municipalities today that can be further developed, and the majority believe it should continue. The municipalities are on their way. The minority wants pilots and things to happen a little bit slower. The decision maker has a major and important role to play. He is a central part of the local health service and is the link between first and second line services. This competence should be better exploited by enabling much of what is done at the specialist level to be done by the permanent medical practitioner. Municipalities can develop outpatient, multi-disciplinary teams linked to the local medical centres, and they can complement them with the follow-up of chronicler groups and their families. A Joint Committee considers that there is a need for a stronger focus on rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and that the gap between specialist rehabilitation and municipal rehabilitation needs to be reviewed. In particular, older people and chroniclers want to benefit from community rehabilitation. Regardless of how this is established, it shall be a multidisciplinary, good-quality scheme. The specialist healthcare service needs to be further developed and new methods and instruments applied. It is important that new things that should be centralised are centralised, while what can be done equally well at the local level should be done there. In this context, the role of local hospitals is important, and there must be broad competence and good quality there. The Committee disagrees with what a local hospital should contain and how detailed it should be described, but the notification indicates some functions that should be present – such as X-rays, laboratories and specialists with broad competence. We in the Red-Greens believe that there should be anaesthesia in those hospitals with emergency preparedness that already have anaesthesia today, and believe this complements what the government itself writes about the content. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want a minimum standard for local hospitals. As important as good hospitals are good prehospital services for a quick and safe treatment to the right place. As far as ICT is concerned, the Committee is in agreement and believes that national governance in the field of ICT development should be provided for in the future. Everything that's exciting has to be further developed. I mention eRecept, more use of electronic messaging systems, national health portal and national core journal. Welfare technology must also be further developed. Patient safety, ethics, research, management, education and quality are factors that are important in the health care of the future and which both the notification and the suspension highlight well. We are concerned about the future shortage of health professionals. We need to ensure that personnel are recruited, trained and maintained. The quality promise 2015 contributes, but more needs to be done, and more young people need to choose health as their profession in the future. The communication aims at preventing and eradicating social health inequalities. At the same time, it provides the direction of health policy: more responsibility for municipalities and more clear clarification of what hospitals should do. For the first time, a municipal politician will know what specialist health services do. The reform is a declaration of trust to the municipalities, which we believe can do the job. The municipalities are more than ready. They're already running. There are an incredible number of great, exciting measures that are ready, and that they are using now, but we know that they can do even more. Prevention takes time. The benefits of the work we are now presenting will be seen in the long term. That we're on the right track is indisputable. This message and the law are for the benefit of patients, which has been our goal all along. I look forward to the debate here today on the health care of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e283	A single committee, with the exception of the Right, has a common objective that dental health must become public responsibility in the same way as other health services. To achieve this goal, you have to start with those who need the most. Then I wonder: What is the reason why the government parties do not support the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party's proposal on free dental treatment for disabled people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e288	We have put in place a lot of measures to reach weak groups and to constantly bring in new groups. I'd like to mention drug users, I'd like to mention prison inmates. Our goal for dental health is to get a propensity system where everyone is given the opportunity to get a cheaper dental health. We have faith in that. In addition, we'll look at it with 75-year-olds plus. So in St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007 About the dental service of the future, we give some leadership where we want to. But as of today, it is not our goal to give free treatment to everyone, for this needs to be investigated with a self-interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e293	Many had expectations that a new national health plan would also be a hospital plan where the Stortinget got a word about what would be the minimum content of the different types of hospitals. Not least had a hope of this since the Soria Moria Declaration stated that the National Health Plan should become more operational, and all the opposition parties on the Stortinget believe so, the central government party believes so, and the government party SV believes so. Nevertheless, we got a new national health plan where one had made a definition of a local hospital that, to put it that way, was tailor-made for the current situation, with one hospital ward in one state to avoid a burden attached to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, that no local hospital should be laid down. What is the background for the Workers' Party being so afraid that the Stortinge will be allowed to feel something about the minimum hospital content and will keep this close to the breast inside the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e298	I believe that the message contains a lot of what the representative Höie wants. Because there are very many requirements in the plan for what a hospital should contain. I mentioned it in my post with laboratories, X-rays and specialists with broad competence. I believe a lot is already in here. Not all hospitals have it per day, so there's opportunities here. We have also extended the message on anaesthesia. We want to keep the preparedness that is already in those hospitals that have emergency preparedness today. So I believe that the message takes care of what the representative called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e305	The representative Mant was concerned about the importance of prevention and public health. I very much agree with that. So it is that several hearing bodies have pointed out that focusing more on prevention and public health will be a great boost for municipalities. We also know that the results may come many years later. Several Hearing Officers have also pointed out that in the financial framework for the follow-up to the Interaction Reform, there is little and nothing specifically dedicated to prevention activities. There will necessarily be a hump effect of expenditure in municipalities if they are really to be able to prevent. I think that if the reform is to succeed, we have to do this somehow. How have the municipalities been supposed to get the big promise, when there is no specific charge for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e310	I believe that both in the message and in our attitude there is a change of mind – to think prevention. It's not necessarily the economy that's always going to be. What we're going to do is think about what we're really talking about when we're talking about public health. Well, we're talking about walking and cycling routes, in connection with the technical level, we're talking about good water systems. We're talking about what's actually happening in the municipalities today. But we have to think public health a little bit different than we might have done before. I think we should think preventively, a little different from what we have done so far – that everything should cost money. In this context, voluntary and non-profit institutions are a very important complement to this in municipalities. It's already doing a hell of a job. That's where the system gets smeared in relation to subsidies. So I think that changing the way of thinking is one of the most important things we big-time politicians and municipal politicians should do in the health care of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e315	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e319	As the rapporteur for the Health and Care Act, I would first like to thank the Committee for its clean and proper work, which has made it possible to deal with the matter here today. But the very starting point for the dossier was made by the former rapporteur, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, and he deserves a great thank you for a very good work. That's my thanks for giving on behalf of the whole committee. At the same time, I want to wish him good recovery during his medical report, also on behalf of the entire committee. The most important starting point for the new law is, of course, the cooperation reform. However, the Committee also stresses that the many legislative amendments have not been triggered by the cooperation reform alone, but that there has been a long need to coordinate and clean up municipal laws and laws in some neighbouring areas. And it is important to stress that despite the fact that the government parties rejected the wide-ranging resolution of the white opposition, all parties in this room share the same starting point, namely a desire for more focus on prevention and rehabilitation. We also share the basic view that we want to treat more people as close to where they live as possible. One concern the opposition has is that one with what appears to us to be urgent has damaged the consultation period, and that, with amendments to more than 41 laws, including: changes in the Patient Rights Act and the Special Health Service Act – and in addition an extensive use of powers – are almost irresponsible to deal with this in such a short time, not least when it is also expected that Norwegian municipalities will be ready to implement it as early as next year. This is essentially a difficult problem. A single committee stresses that the overall objective of the legislative proposal is to facilitate better interaction, greater multidisciplinary cooperation and comprehensive solutions in municipalities. The population shall be guaranteed equal access to good and equivalent health and care services, irrespective of diagnosis or need, age, sex, personal economy and residence. The Committee also considers that the current law and regulation currently in place of cooperation between administrative levels are not sufficient to meet patients’ needs for comprehensive and coordinated health and care services. Reference is made to the fact that when municipalities and enterprises are to cooperate and plan treatment processes, this should be based on the LEON principle and the statutory distribution of responsibilities. The entire Committee welcomes the use of the contractual institution to promote interaction and considers it reasonable to impose obligations on municipalities and undertakings to conclude cooperation agreements. The Committee also considers it important that the national framework agreement, standard agreement and guidance material strive to achieve a high level of equality in the form of the agreements to be concluded and the Committee agrees to the establishment of an advisory dispute resolution panel based on the model of the Child Protection Dispute Resolution Board to deal with disagreement between the parties. The Committee also considers it natural that any disagreement may be brought before the courts if the parties do not wish to follow the recommendation of the dispute settlement officer. Cooperation agreement between most municipalities and their nearest hospital is currently being concluded. on ready-to-print patients, and there is wide professional contact between general practitioners and hospitals about the patients for whom they share joint responsibility. A large number of municipalities have gradually entered into cooperation with hospitals to provide decentralised specialist health services, including: in the much-mentioned local medical centre. This established cooperation will provide a good basis for more extensive and formalised cooperation. In addition, I am pleased that the entire Committee warns that one of the consequences of the elimination of the distinction between health services and care services can be reversed so that services for which no self-payment can be required today can now be subject to self-payment, as well as a unanimous committee asking the Ministry to follow these developments closely. The undersigned is also pleased that the Committee sees that the financial instrument can lead to additional burdens for periods such as: for holiday municipalities and student municipalities, etc. With regard to the main approach to funding itself, it has not been possible to reach an agreement. At this point, it is natural to go over to present the specific comments and proposals of the Progress Party. The fact that we're dealing with more cases today, makes me also going to get into some of these. The issues dealt with by the Committee illustrate the political difference between the Red-Green Government and the policy of the Progressive Party and the policy on which the bourgeois parties are largely united. We are distinguished from the red-greens in terms of patient safety, professional neutrality and the funding model – both of the extraction from hospitals and not least the so-called co-financing. The fact that the specialist health service is to be reduced by 5 billion. kr, there is disagreement about. The bourgeois parties have the basic starting point that matters, and this reform, should be built from below and up, not above and below. And not least, the bourgeois parties have an understanding – which we do not register with the red-green – that it will take time to build up the competences required by the municipalities in this matter. When we all know, as we know, among other things. Discussed last Friday, that the rug is a situation in regional health companies with major economic and, not least, professional challenges, I believe that we are entering a dangerous land, and that, as I also said on Friday, with a government and a government council that does not have full control over regional health companies. The back cover for this is of course also that we have 280 000 people in line while we are doing this reduction. Last week's events reinforce the need for what the Progress Party has said many times, as well as pointed out in the handling of the matters that we are going to vote on today. In my view, the events show that both the time of regional health companies is over and that this unnecessary and very bureaucratic link should be removed. In my view, they also show that funding needs to be changed. In fact, it is a paradox, at least for the undersigned and for the Progress Party, that the Minister of Health will allow the economic bottling of health businesses to continue through large and irresponsible cutbacks, while at the same time we have 280,000 people in line. And now it has to be cut further and transferred to the municipalities on the matter we are dealing with today. The solution of the Advance Party – we want the hospital services to be funded by the state, and the money to follow the patient – is well-known, and it cannot be repeated too often. The party clearly says no – and so does the civil parties – to a so-called municipal co-financing for hospital treatment. This will increase the threshold for hospitalisation, primarily for older people, and it will increase the geographical health differences that we have in this country. And it will in the long run drain an already heavily pressed specialist health service for even more money and perhaps also for competence. So instead of dragging the government's proposals over the heads of the Municipality and Health-Norway through a top-down position, the Progress Party wants the interaction arenas to be created from below and up, through good local pilot projects around the country. We want such local initiatives to provide the basis for interaction, so that we can learn from the good projects out there and pass on the good experience to others across the whole country. I was going to go into a lot of other things too, but time only now allows me to promote the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved. This concerns all the matters we have to deal with that we are now dealing with together, and I consider the proposals to be referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e355	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e360	My question is related to public health and logic – any logic. A single committee will make health promotion choices simpler and cheaper, but at the same time, the committee, acting unanimously, says that one will also make health-damaging choices less attractive. But when we logically go on to say in the setting that price instruments need to be used more effectively, the Advance Party is jumping off as the only party. How will the Promotion Party make health promotion choices simpler and cheaper, and health-damaging choices less attractive, without using price instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e365	You should listen carefully when the representative Hagebakken talks about logic. I've also done that this time, without necessarily finding much of what Hagebaken and his party stand for, which is especially logical. However, it is fully possible to use positive instruments from a public health perspective — tax incentives can be used. For example, the Progress Party has: on several occasions, without the involvement of red-green lots, to provide tax relief in the form of, for example. removing the employer’s fee for training centres. Where small and medium-sized enterprises cannot afford to have their own arrangements for their employees, but will buy a place in a local training centre to improve public health, it is taxed by the red-green parties. There is one of many measures The Progress Party has been in favour of changing, but unfortunately the red-green parties have not received support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e370	In the 2011 alternative state budget of the Progress Party, the party prioritises tax relief in the order of 20 billion. kr in preference to health bets. In addition, the profile of the tax proposal is such that it prioritises them with the highest income, they receive more — consequence: increased differences. My question to the representative Olsen is: why does the Progress Party give the highest priority to taxation, and why does the Progress Party give greater priority to differences when the policy objective is to balance health inequalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e377	Now both the question and the premise for the question are wrong, and then, of course, the whole starting point is wrong. So it's not that the Progress Party has prioritised tax relief rather than health in its state budget, we've managed to prioritise both. It's actually possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. The progress has been over 2 billion. kr more than the red-green, more than the representative Hansen, for health and the specialist health service in Norwegian hospitals, who would have prevented much of what we see in the Kingdom today, with the cuts, among other things. Oslo University Hospital is facing. We have done so at the same time as we propose tax havens. Nor is it right, as the representative Hansen says, that the profile of our tax regime would benefit the richest. We actually have a profile of our tax system that gives a lot of tax relief at the bottom of ordinary people, and that has ordinary income, and we're actually very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e382	A few years ago, the Progress Party agreed to introduce the Business Model. I note that the Progress Party today believes that the system they agreed to introduce, creates major differences in health supply, is bureaucratic and a cost-effective intermediary. The Progress Party now suggests that a Hospital Directorate should be created instead. I thought the Progress Party was a party that opposed increased bureaucracy. I think it's a paradox that they're now drivers of another directorate in Health-Noreg. I wonder if the representative Per Arne Olsen can explain to me how a directorate better can meet local needs than a regional government where the populace today are in a plurality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e387	It's quite possible for me to explain it. Whether or not the knowledge goes into it is going to be up to the representative himself. But it's true, as the representative Toppe says, that the Progress Party was a supporter of the business model. Much of what we've been given has been very good, and we're still in a state ownership – that we don't now have to have 20 different owners of Norwegian hospitals, but have one owner, the Norwegian state, is very good. That we want hospitals to be organized as businesses, we're still a member of it. It's the regional health companies we want to remove, the unnecessary bureaucracy that I thought the Center Party too would like to remove. I also believe that one directorate is better than four health companies – there will be less bureaucracy by one bureaucracy than by four. We could do that on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e392	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e395	The background that today’s Storing will focus on prevention and early intervention in health policy is based on three key analyses of future challenges. One is that we know that 70 pst. of all serious diseases treated in hospitals are life-style related. We can't solve it in the future just by increasing treatment capacity, we have to do something more. We must give priority to early action; we must give priority to prevention. Number two: As a result of our high standard of living, we live longer, and the need for healthcare and health professionals will rise dramatically over the next 15-20 years. If we don't take action now, there will be a need for all the young people leaving high school, in health care, and that won't work. I would like to draw up one more factor: we have more health differences in Norway than they have in countries where it is natural to compare ourselves with, and we are spending less on prevention health. We can't wait for the challenge to get acute, we have to start now. It's the long-term perspective that's being taken into account today. I have been the case rapporteur for the Public Health Act and will begin by commenting on it. I would first like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. There is agreement on most of it. The Public Health Act is a milestone. It's a milestone that we're now going to adopt a law that aims to combat social health inequalities. It will require considerable efforts across all sectors, with long-term target awareness. The Public Health Act stresses that public health is not just an individual responsibility but a responsibility for the community. One of the most important things we do with the Public Health Act is to shift the responsibility for health. It is too subtle when only healthcare is to be responsible for health. 90 pst. public health activities are to be carried out outside the health sector. With this law, public health responsibility is transferred to an overall municipal level. One of the main principles of the law is that there should be health in everything we do. A 2010 public health report on the state of health in Norway confirms with almost brutal honesty how severe social differences work. One does a theoretical exercise where one sees what would have been the effect of raising the population to the health level of the best-placed groups. Then it comes in response that every year 1000 dies for many of the heart diseases and 500 for many of the lung cancers. A total of 4,300 lives could have been saved annually. It gives us a clue about the importance of combating health inequalities in society. It is therefore the second principle of the law that it should work in a balanced way; it should combat social health differences. Volunteering is very important for public health. Sports teams, cultural organisations and children's and youth organisations contribute to the arenas for belonging, mastering and rejoicing for a great many of us. That is also why the majority of the Committee proposes to strengthen the legal text relating to the responsibilities of municipalities for volunteering. With the new law, municipalities should facilitate voluntary activities. The setting-up of this is, of course, a question that needs to be addressed locally and in close cooperation with the volunteer itself. This work is part of the third principle, the principle of participation. Participation is equally fully concerned with the need for each individual to take care of his or her own health, while at the same time enabling the authorities to make good choices. One of our strongest maps to ensure good health for the population is a well-regulated working life. When the NHO organized its annual conference in January under the Velferdsfallen vignette, they set out to show that the population is working less. In 1850, says the NHO, about half of our waking time was spent at work, in 1950 about 35 p.m. and in 2000 about 25 pst. But this is progress. It's a tractor rather than a horse. We probably worked more in 1850, but what else was society like? In 1886, life was 51 years old, in 1950 it was increased by 20 years, in 2000 it was almost 76 years old, and this year it is even higher. It is about increasing living standards and medical progress. Having a working life that people can live with is essential for health and well-being, for social development and for how long we get to live. It manifests clearly: the pastor can expect 81 years of life, the waiter and the taxi driver ten fewer years. The Public Health Act is a major effort – a strengthened labour-environment law, a strong public health service with low self-esteem, environmental and public transport efforts to improve local air conditions. The Public Health Act provides municipalities with strong instruments to ensure that the health aspect is included in all local planning and social development. Many municipalities and county councils have done, and do, very well in this area. There are many good examples to learn from. We also have a community network for public health. However, for the future this should not be based solely on local fires and enthusiastic employees in the municipal sector. They become very important in the future too, but now all the municipalities and municipalities of the country have a responsibility, and not least the state as well. The Government shall follow the Public Health Act with an implementation plan. It shall include economic instruments, the development of a better knowledge base and the enhancement of competences. This work shall be carried out across departments and across all sectors. I would like to stress that this law and also what it says about public health at national health level is a first important step on the way. Responsibility is placed, and the challenges are described. But the follow-up to this work to be done by the government will be very important if the public health effort is to get that promise across the country that we now expect. In the end, I just want to refer to the two proposals for amendments to the law, before I end up as a case rapporteur and go over to my post on the other laws as an SV representative. Let me first express my joy at the breakthrough we are making today for people with disabilities. Finally, we take a decision that obliges the government to come back with a proposal for a right-holding, and in the case of BPA, the system of user-led personal assistant. I will commend everyone who has been patient and worked towards this goal. SV has a long tradition of supporting liberation movements, and the fight that people with disabilities fight is such a struggle. We politicians have a responsibility to back it up. The right-wing of BPA will be such a contribution. I am very pleased that we are going to make a decision today. Since the Health Inspectorate recently supervised the follow-up to the Law on Social Services in Nav, supervision found direct offences in 45 out of 50 municipalities. It's very serious. It has been important for us to ensure good complaint procedures, and we have come up with a good solution, which ensures the right to appeal and access of the review bodies to reverse decisions. The government has taken up much of the criticism that came through the consultation round against the original proposal. For SV, I would like to stress that it is important to strengthen legal certainty, especially for the most vulnerable groups. I believe we have now. Recruitment of doctors to municipal health and specialist health services throughout the country and all its municipalities are becoming very important in the coming years. It is therefore natural for it to be reacted when such a successful scheme as the Tournament Scheme is to be revised. It's being reacted because the lottery system that's been practiced has largely laid the groundwork for recruiting newly-trained doctors to the whole country. In the vote, a joint committee states that any change in the medical rotation service must not be at the expense of recruitment and medical coverage in the districts. It's important. The quality of the Tournament system for both medical training and, not least, for the recruitment of doctors to the whole country must be reflected in the new system that the government is now working on. The new law merges the old social service law with the municipal health law. There is expressed concern that the social responsibility of the law is weakened. I understand that concern, but I am also aware that it is not the intention of the legislator to weaken it. Changes have therefore been made after the consultation round. The municipalities still have a clear responsibility to capture those who will fall outside, and that is a very important part of the welfare state we are now talking about. I would like to underline the purpose of the law as, among other things, stresses that it should ‘encourage social protection, improve living conditions for disadvantaged people, contribute to equality and equality and prevent social problems’; This is a heavy responsibility, a responsibility I expect the municipalities to take the most seriously, even in the future. In the national health plan, local hospitals have received a special mention. A minimum level of local hospital is described. Local hospitals shall have the specialist health service of the day, as a minimum, in the field of internal medicine and the competence to carry out simple day-to-day surgical procedures. Furthermore, in areas with long distances and difficult communication conditions, there is a particular need to be able to deal with acute conditions. The majority of the Committee has also added that there must be anaesthetic preparedness in these local hospitals. One would think that anaesthesia was a matter of course when it came to emergency preparedness, but it is not. It turns out that it is planned, and it has been planned, local hospital with emergency care without anaesthesia. That is why this emphasis is included. With regard to the focus in the specialist healthcare services for others and in hospitals in particular, patient safety and quality are the main focus. Despite the fact that we have a health service and a specialist health service that is ranked at the top of the international level, mistakes are made. Patient safety is not always good enough, and there is a critical searchlight on the quality systems in our hospitals. The director of the Health Authority also says clearly that the hospitals are too poor to learn from errors that are being made. Errors are repeated, and it is a symptom that the quality systems are not good enough. The government has notified a major report on patient safety. I welcome it and hope it will be widely developed. I believe that patient safety needs to be assessed in a broad perspective. We need to look at how the management systems work. Security and quality must be given the highest priority. So finally just a few words: we don't make it all over with short speaking time. In the health plan, the government gives the starting signal for what eventually has to become a dental reform. The teeth should be part of the body, as it is called. Now we're going to figure out how this is going to happen. Once in the future, I believe that dental health must become a part of popular health as other health is. It seems like a remarkable thing that we don't have dental health fully inside the population. It is my and SV's goal that we should come closer to the goal of the investigation that is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e446	For years SV has been talking about reducing economic differences, and for six years they have tried to do so together with the government. It has failed. The number of poor has not been reduced at all. In the context of this public health law, it is repeated repeatedly that these economic differences should be balanced, but there is no proposal on how to do so. Is it that SV's recipe is still to tax the richest and keep the poorest equally poor, or is it so that SV has given up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e453	It's wrong that we haven't helped reduce the differences. At the time of this government’s seat, differences in Norway have been reduced, and this is due to the fiscal policy pursued, among others. with taxes on property. So it's a trend that goes in the opposite direction to what the Advance Party's tax policy would have contributed to. So the questioner says that there are no concrete proposals on how to implement the Public Health Act, if I understood the question correctly. - That's not it. Can you repeat the question, then?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e460	How are you going to reduce the economic differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e465	We've started to do that. They're reduced, and if we keep going, they'll be further reduced. So the starting point for the question is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e470	The representative, Hansen, was concerned that the municipalities should be given extensive responsibility for the broad public health work and in particular make clear the cooperation of the municipalities with the volunteers, and that is good. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party point out that many users receive their health and care services provided by private service providers in agreement with the municipalities. By law, we will clarify the local authorities' obligation to cooperate with user organisations, non-governmental organisations and private service providers. Why won't SV cooperate with private people? What's so wrong with good private offers at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e477	No, there's nothing wrong with good private providers. What is stated in the law is an emphasis on the obligation to cooperate with the voluntary sector. We think it's right that the law is designed like this. However, it is clear that when municipalities are to follow the public health initiative, it would be quite natural to cooperate with all those who can contribute to better public health. It is then clear that private institutions, health institutes, etc. is going to be on that team. So it's not suggested that it's a barrier to cooperating with private people, as the law is designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e482	In the opinion of the Committee, the governing parties state that the law is a law of authority to a greater extent than the previous law, i.e. that some regulations should be laid down by the government afterwards. So the parties also say that where it is added up to major changes, the Storting should also participate in the process, for example. in the budgets coming. Now there are nearly 30 regulations to be either created or amended before the implementation of these laws in 2012. My question is really whether the representative Hansen believes that Storting's participation can be ensured when so much needs to be changed, and when this must probably be in place long before the state budget comes next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e491	I believe that this will be facilitated so that it can be done in a good way. We get reports on the follow-up to the Public Health Act in 2012. I hope we get it in connection with the municipal bill in 2012 and in connection with the state budget for 2013. It is a law that will contribute to a comprehensive cross-sectoral follow-up across departments. I am quite certain that the Storting will have the opportunity to follow this up in a good way. I think that will also be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e496	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e499	The issues we have to deal with today are a further follow-up to the big message that Stortinget dealt with last year. First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work and for their good cooperation in the committee, which has made it possible, within a difficult time frame, to deal with such major issues as such, not least changes in the law. What one looks like from the settings that are on the table today is that the consensus that the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Left and Right established in the context of the handling of the paper on the cooperation reform last spring has continued in the matters that are also linked to the legislative changes that these four parties are united in. It is also worth remembering that it was a wish of these parties last spring that one should get to a debate with the government parties on such a great health reform as this was initially supposed to, where one could ensure Norway a broader political basis for that reform than what one now sees. I noted last spring that the government parties did not want negotiations, and we can also note that, through the consideration of these three major issues, there have been no approaches from the government parties linked to getting a broad settlement in these matters. But at least we see that the consensus established in the opposition is still at hand. Nevertheless, it means that there is a health reform here, where a government shift in 2013 can also affect the content of the reform. It is a paradox that we have a government that asks the healthcare community to interact, to engage in healthcare interactions, but that is not able to interact with healthcare itself. In the three major issues we are dealing with today, one will see that there are three main differences in the approach to this reform. The opposition and the government parties all agree that this is the right direction to go for the Norwegian health service, but the instruments disagree. First, it's about the way you think about reform. One sees the majority putting up for a top-down reform, where one steps a template across the country for a reform to be carried out at record speed, while the opposition is more concerned that this could become a bottom-up reform, where a lot of service evolves locally and not least through different types of experiment. Testing different models in different parts of the country means that we would be much wiser than implementing a model for everyone in such a short time. We also have extensive experience with this from other reforms, not least in the health sector, where one sees that implementation, for example. of the fast-track reform went very well precisely because a different type of approach was chosen, while one in other reforms, such as the Nav reform, has chosen this industry and seen its results. The third main difference is also linked to the funding model, where one sees that the majority are consistently very concerned that this should be a zero-sum game in which one transfers money from the specialist health service to the community health service and believes that it should be the way to go to build this reform, not least through complicated and bureaucratic funding models. In the three major cases, the new national health and care plan, municipal health and care law and public health law, I will briefly explain what are the main options of the Right. There will also be alternatives to which we stand with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In our view, the national health and care plan should also have been a national operational hospital plan, which contained a description of what should be the minimum offer in the different types of hospitals, and not just a description of what should be a minimum offer in a local hospital. There would have been a lot of discussion about what we see very many people are concerned about: how the hospital structure in Norway should look: away from businesses and into elected bodies, into the Storting, where responsibility belongs. In the final phase of the treatment of the national health and care plan, a discussion was held in which government parties entered and made a change related to anaesthesia. It clearly shows that the definition of the content of the local hospital government is not based on a good process where professional recommendations end up with political balances, but where one in late night hours, as we have been illustrated clearly on television, sits and flashes back and forth in political decision-making processes in order to achieve political objectives linked to a statement that everyone sees cracking in total. There is a wrong process related to how vital functions towards hospital content should be established. Here should have had a national health plan that was based on good professional advice, good local processes and then a political balance at the end of the year in Stortinget. Now the government says that this should also be anchored in regulations. There is a review in this law that many important decisions are now being moved from the Storting and into regulatory processes. The opposition points out that interaction is not only about interconnection of services but also about major challenges related to the lack of services. In particular, in the context of the national health and care plan, a stepping-up plan is proposed in the area of rehabilitation and a stepping-up plan in the field of drug use. The new municipal health and care law is a combination of the old municipal health law and the social services law. The right here suggests, together with the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, that the name of the law should continue to contain the term "social". It is essential, because this is not only a health and care law, it should also be a social law. In fact, many people are born into this law and, throughout their lives, need services that are anchored in it – without necessarily being patients or having a need for care, even if they need this type of service. In this context, the concept of care is, to a large extent, a top-down concept in relation to the social concept. That is why it is of great symbolic importance. The government parties propose municipal co-financing. The proposed municipal co-financing, based on diagnosis, will involve real age discrimination in the Norwegian health system. Many were happy when the government went out and said it dropped the proposal to introduce an 80-year rule into the law. But what it has come back with is, in fact, the same thing, because the medical diagnosis on which municipal co-financing is to be based is essentially medical diagnosis that affects the elderly. The law and argument about this is based on the belief that too many older people obviously come too quickly into hospitals. This is not a professional basis to claim. The four-year commitment of the Health Authority to the supervision of services for the elderly, which was reported in 2010, shows the very opposite, namely that hospitalisation directly in hospitals and not through hospitals, where diagnostic competence exists, was cited as a concrete example of failure. The supervisory experience of the Health Authority in individual cases also shows that too many elderly people do not receive a quick enough offer of hospitalisation. The government’s own expert group on elderly people in healthcare, which was established in the context of this reform, came to exactly the same conclusion: it is a challenge for older people to be late for hospitalisation. The introduction of municipal co-financing for elderly people entering hospitals will in reality build up the barrier for this patient group to enter hospitals. There is direct age discrimination, which is now incorporated into the law. We're against that. The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli will get into our view of professional neutrality, which is another area where community health services are weakened, as a result of the law passed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e541	‘Faceless bureaucrats’ is a concept that the representative Höie is constantly using to describe the members of the board of regional health establishments. One of the supposed faceless must then be Höie's own party trap that sits on the board of Health North, the county rapporteur of Troms, Terje Olsen – otherwise a very visible and respected human being in his homeland. The right is saying in their comments that they want the regional health companies gone, but there's nothing to say about what they want instead. However, the party calls for a wide-ranging roll-out of commercial health services through private actors, who, according to the Right's new health strategy, can establish where they want, and within the field they want, and then send the bill for patient treatment to the community – without having to agree with the public, as is the case today. Does not the representative Höie see that this means that faceless owners of capital with the address Tax havens can have a so far unfair influence over the use of resources in Norwegian health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e548	We choose to use the term ‘faceless bureaucrats’ when important political decisions about hospital structure and hospital content are taken by enterprises within a system in which people simply do not recognise, because decisions about important functions in their community are no longer taken by elected people but by bureaucrats and corporate boards. It's a model we don't think fits. We believe that this should be much more democratically anchored through a national health and care plan anchored here in Stortinget. In the case of private offers, these will depend either on contracts with the public or on patients choosing the offer. And there's nothing more democratic than that each of us gets to be involved and influence the structure of supply through our own choices. So I can't quite see the connection that the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen is doing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e555	The prerequisite for further developing a good health system, as we have in Norway, is that we build on the public welfare model we have today. It is based on health services being run by the public, with a private supplement. However, in the Right's policy, it has become clear that it is felt that the private should not be a supplement, but an alternative to the public. Then I would like to refer to the following: When the Specialist Health Service Act was last discussed, the Right wrote in its comments in the setting: ‘Righter believes that social considerations should not be used as a basis for the authorisation of health institutions [[...]] Then my question is: is it still Right-wing policy that social considerations should not be taken into account when approving private health institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e565	The right does not believe that private individuals should only be an alternative to public health; we believe they should be part of public health. That's where the main difference is between us and the red-greens. When the red-green parties allow private alternatives to grow up, but as one is not willing to use under public control, it creates a two-part health care system – in Norway today we have the most two-part health care system we have had after the war. People who have a good economy now can buy private offers, while those who have a poorer economy are put in a longer and longer health queue. As far as this is concerned with ‘social relationships’, it is only a term used in the law to enable us to use political considerations to refuse the establishment of good private offerings. The quality of the offer must be essential for the establishment of this. So one is dependent on agreements or on some of us actually choosing offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e572	The right has argued that today's municipal structure is a barrier to the implementation of the Interaction Reform and that small municipalities will not be able to take on new and larger tasks. My concern is in the opposite direction. Today, it is the largest municipalities that are the worst in accepting ready-to-print patients. It's the largest municipalities that have the highest input rate, i.e. that decision-makers in small districts take greater responsibility for their patients and avoid more unnecessary insertions. The level of user satisfaction — including in the case of healthcare — is highest in the small municipalities. The implementation of the Nav reform created the biggest problems in Oslo and Bergen, not in the small district municipalities. Is this due only to poor political governance in the large municipalities of Oslo and Bergen, or is it such that the willingness to take responsibility and the ability to succeed is actually greater in the smaller and more transparent municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e581	It's a pretty complicated picture that the representative is now taking up in his line. It is quite obvious that some of the basic services that some of the municipalities have to offer today are tasks many of the small municipalities are good at solving, while the tasks are considerably larger and more demanding for the large municipalities. But if you think of what is an intention in this reform – that municipalities should take on bigger and more complicated tasks, for example: what they are now required to do through a 24-hour offer of immediate assistance, by preventing the insertion into the specialist healthcare service, through a municipal co-financing – not least the need for a more and more specialised competence will be a major challenge. In both health and other areas, it is a problem that too many municipalities are too small. That's exactly why the municipalities themselves choose to work intermunicipally, because they see that they don't have the power to solve the problem alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e588	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e591	Norway currently has a well-developed public health system and a relatively healthy population with a high life expectancy. However, public health and health and care services should be improved on the issues raised by the Stortinget today. What we are adopting today is the beginning of an important change in health policy in Norway. We will ensure more decentralisation of healthcare provision, more interaction between municipalities and countries and more focus on prevention and early intervention. Until now, Norway has used a significantly smaller proportion of the health budget for prevention and public health work than many other countries. In new public health laws, we state that public health and prevention should be assessed in all policy areas and in all plans, both state, regional and local. We want to apply structural and population-right measures, so that we make the healthy choices easier. Increased physical activity, better diet, less drug abuse and less unfortunate radiation habits are among the key factors in improving public health. Public health must be done in the municipalities where people live. The centre party is confident that municipalities will take responsibility and put prevention in the centre, with knowledge-based and targeted public health work. The centre party is very pleased that municipalities are given responsibility for new, concrete statutory tasks, and that cooperation agreements between municipalities and enterprises become an obligation. The obligation for municipalities to contribute to research is also very good. The legalisation of daily services for immediate assistance places under the municipal regime also makes sense. This may, for example: organized in a local medical centre. The point is that patients receive a municipal health service before, instead of or after hospital treatment, if this would provide an equally good or better supply to the patient. Local authorities should be responsible for ready-to- print patients from one day onwards, of course – and in high time. These patients have nothing to do in a hospital and will get a better offer in the municipality. It is also important for the medical services to be strengthened in order to succeed in the cooperation reform. The centre party welcomes the measures already announced and looks forward to further strengthening this important prehospital emergency service. The centre party fully supports the need to revise the regulatory framework, which specifies the responsibilities of the list and introduces national functional and quality requirements. Interaction reform means, in effect, work of competence in health out in municipalities. This will raise the status and recruitment of key municipal health services in local communities. Most of the growth in health workers is to be done in municipalities, where people live. Training and specialisation in the health care system must also reflect this. The centre party believes it is necessary that the economic instruments support the desired changes in health policy, and concludes that the limited form of municipal co-financing for somatic treatments will be introduced from 2012. Municipalities should also be given financial responsibility for ready-to-print patients from day one. The immediate aid provision shall be fully financed. Splice layers between municipalities and enterprises can currently provide the basis for cooperation projects as a local medical centre. In the years ahead, the growth in the health budget will be concentrated in municipalities. For hospitals, the government of the national health and care plan has for the first time provided a minimum definition of what a local hospital should hold. That's what the Center Party thinks is positive. The centre party is pleased that the government party during the landfill treatment has indicated that emergency hospitals should also have requirements for anaesthetic preparedness. The health and care plan makes it clear that local health care needs to be ensured. The centre lot looks forward to the review to be made by the health business model. In particular, it is good that one should evaluate governance practices and local and regional anchoring. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the various legal, economic, professional and organisational arrangements that are now being proposed in the matters we are dealing with today, which have changed since the hearings, will give a good start to the reform. The centre party welcomes the gradual implementation of the cooperation reform and the follow-up of the new instruments. To the opposition, which criticises all the instruments without any other real alternatives, but which at the same time implies that they are some of the intention, I will site Ibsen's Peer Gynt: «Yes, think it; wish it; would it too – but do it! No, I don't understand!' At least the centre understands that we need to do something about health policy. We think it's been enough of plans where we're talking about prevention, where we want to strengthen public health work, where we want to make sure that we strengthen the community health service. Now let's do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e624	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e627	It has been my lot here in life to point to the double communication of the Center Party, and it unfortunately does not seem that I am unemployed with the first. Once upon a time, the Minister of Health has stood on this pulpit in Stortinget many times and said that local hospitals are tired of recruiting adequate skills, and therefore a pool of competences is needed. So now, the Center Party and the government in this case are going to move the competence out of hospitals, which has tens of thousands of patients, into municipalities with 300,000 and 1,500 inhabitants. And at the same time, one claims that health services will be better. You can only wonder how your professional assessments will turn out. But the question to the representative Toppe is simple: When these municipalities are given the responsibility for complex specialist health services, does it not appear that patients necessarily have to get a worse offer than they have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e636	What I'm completely overly perplexed about is that the decentralisation of the specialist services involved in these matters will provide a better patient offer. Nor am I in doubt that there is enough disease in Norway that we need both local hospitals and that municipalities can do more of some tasks, and that one can get, for example. outpatient clinics. We must have confidence in the municipalities, that people will work in the municipalities, and that patients will get their health services closer where they live. Some places are the local hospital that will be able to take the local medical centre functions. The municipalities themselves have to find out, because this is a reform that needs to be built from below and up, even if I hear that the opposition claims it is the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e642	The National Council for Prenatal Care has clearly stated that the person responsible for the follow-up service for women at birth to the maternity ward must have competence in basic birth care, handling complications such as: bleeding, transport birth, and the newborn. The Ministry says that this will in practice be a midwife, but that other occupational groups may also be involved. What other professional groups does the representative Toppe consider to have the necessary competence to take this responsibility? Is it a regular, an ambulance, a home nurse or a taxi driver? This is an example of the consequences of professional neutrality. This is worrying, because we see today that there is poor soil-killing in the municipalities. The follow-up service is miserable and, with increased centralisation, there will be a further deterioration in the supply. That's why the Right proposed to legislate women's right to midwife service. Is the representative Toppe happy with the accompanying service offered to pregnant and birthing women in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e651	I think that the delivery service for pregnant women is not good enough today, either in the districts or in the urban municipalities where there is a certain travel time. What's going on is these agreements that we have to put in place, that health companies take the responsibility they got over a year ago, and that women who are born in all municipalities where they are entitled to follow-up services for travel time are given it. Then we also said in the vote on the right-wing proposal that we are discussing today that we should have a review of the funding arrangements for midwives in the municipalities, because I believe that is where the problem lies first and foremost – that it does not pay for the municipalities to appoint midwives. They have actually tended to send pregnant women to the coroner, although the pregnant women actually want to go to midwife. This is what I want to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e658	The representative Toppe and the Centre have been very concerned about the local hospitals. My question is: is the representative Toppe satisfied with the proposed minimum requirements for local hospitals defined in the National Health Plan and now also in the Appendix that the Committee has received from the Government Parties? Or is there more work related to the standard in local hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e665	First, I would like to say that there has been a great deal of positive about local hospitals, since the time we took over the government offices in 2005. There were lots of protests against the local hospitals and what happened to them then. That's why we got the sentence that no local hospital should be laid down. As I look at what's in this plan today, it's a minimum definition. It's not the golden rule, but the absolute minimum definition, and it's because there are actually some hospitals today that have e.g. acute function with limited emergency preparedness, but not having surgery. That's why it's natural -- I've been busy about it, and we've been busy about it -- that when we talk about the emergency function in a hospital, we've thought that there must be anaesthetic readiness to do it professionally enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e672	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e675	The Christian People's Party supports the important and good objectives of the Cooperation Reform. Let me sum them up in three main points: strengthening the prevention of health work, providing patients with better health care where they should ensure a more comprehensive provision for patients; But I must point out that we believe that the laws of the reform are too poorly prepared. They bear the mark of urgent work, and the government has not pulled up, you have to take care of yourself by making regulations. There are at least 28 points where the content of the law can or must be clarified in the regulation after its adoption, and in practice the Stortinget as a legislative assembly is excluded from affecting much of the content. This applies, inter alia, to:\t\t You can change the the tasks to be performed by the individual levels of competence required by the municipalities to perform the different services of the design of the municipal co-financing for the patients in question; The division of labour between levels — who should do what — should be clarified, as a new division of labour between municipalities and specialist health services is, of course, the foundation of the law. By means of agreements, municipalities and health enterprises are required to complete division of tasks. This could create more inequality, and not less, in our country. In addition to the two laws and national health plans that we are dealing with today, there is a need for a national hospital plan, as well as a review of the specialist healthcare service. More than the opposition batches have been requested by the national hospital plan. Already today, we see that hospital functions are terminated, without the municipalities knowing what they are getting instead. Nordfjord Hospital is a good example. No later than this weekend, I received a dubious enquiry from Nordfjord. Before the weekend, project drafts from Health West came for what they call the local hospital of the future – with a deadline of 17 June at 7.30 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox If the draft mandate becomes final as it stands now, all local hospitals will in the future become local medical centres, according to the enquiry I received. The project shall be a pilot for the content and organisation of other local hospitals. The first indent of the mandate states that they should develop a local medical centre at Nordfjord Hospital. I take it for granted that this has been clarified with the Minister of Health. One of the main points of the cooperation reform is that municipalities should be given greater responsibility and that they should build their own institutions or daily places for immediate help. The Christian People's Party believes it's too early to legislate this new task now. We believe that this should be tested through different procedures in advance. Municipalities are far from having the necessary competence or infrastructure at present, especially for the smallest municipalities. The Christian People's Party also, together with the other opposition parties, says no to municipal co-financing for hospital stays now – this by requiring municipalities to pay a proportion corresponding to 20 pst. the costs of hospital treatment for patients with medical diagnosis. This may lead to a delay in hospitalisation in municipalities with a high level of economy to save money, without having a proper offer to patients. I don't suspect the municipalities that they don't want to, but I think they're not in the situation that they have enough competence. In any case, we do not know the consequences of this, and several hearing bodies have warned against a rapid introduction. In my view, this should also be tested over time. Although some municipalities can point to very good cooperation with health enterprises, no one has tried out all the measures that are now being proposed in the context. We'll be able to easily get a blackmail about the economy between hospitals and municipalities. Municipalities with a lot of resources may have an advantage, but the government lacks a holistic approach and an overview showing which municipalities have the economy and competence to cope with the new tasks imposed, and which will have major challenges. There is simply a lack of national governance that ensures equivalent and good health provision across the country. The Christian People's Party believes, like many hearing bodies and parties in the Stortinget, that the reform should have been tested through several pilot projects before it is introduced throughout the country. Large and small projects, including some with municipal takeover of the order responsibility, we would like. The provision of a dignified care for the elderly — the guarantee of dignity — is about what is a basic service to ensure a decent, safe and meaningful old age. It provides brief and clear guidance to employees at the same time as providing an overview of what older and relatives can expect from the municipal care service. In addition, the guarantee of dignity ensures a minimum quality requirement. If the guarantee is to function effectively as a guarantee, good competence and proper manning are required. Unfortunately, many people today feel that the warranty is being broken. It is serious when the State Health Authority reports that about 50 p.m. by those who file a complaint against the municipality for a breach of the right to the necessary health care, they fully or partially support the complaint. It is particularly sad that the government parties in the Stortinget did not support the Christian People's Party's remark that the guarantee of dignity increases the legal status of the sick elderly, as it was so clearly stated in the hearing note. This is a breach of the guarantee of dignity that we agreed on, together with the Left and Government parties. The Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary to identify the need for sick homes in order to achieve full health care coverage in 2015. Today’s investment is based on service provision covering the needs of the elderly, but reports show that, at present, there is already an unmet need among the sickest of the elderly. As a result, other parts of the supply chain are under increased stress and quality is reduced. In addition, not many nursing homes have benefited from new jobs in recent years, despite the fact that the sickest of older people live here. Most new jobs in the health and care sector have gone to younger people under the age of 67 and to home services, who also needed them. The incidence of dementia is increasing with increasing age, but younger people down to the age of 30 to 40 may also develop dementia. A dementia diagnosis affects the whole family in a demanding way. Therefore, good, comprehensive services at all stages of the disease are essential for health and quality of life, including for relatives. The Christian People's Party will point out in particular the need to legislate the daily activity offer of home-dwelling denments now, and not wait until 2015 as the government puts it. We will also point out the need to organise housing services with activities that provide recognition, security and bring about the ‘golden moments’, as well as ensuring quality and competence in dementia care, and that working methods that provide security, well-being, mastering and dignity for individuals are used. Fixed meeting places for the elderly are so important that the Christian People's Party will legislate on the provision of elderly centres in the Health and Care Services Act. The organisation may be different, either under the direction of non-governmental organisations or in cooperation with municipalities. The Christian People's Party is very disappointed that the government is training the matter of user-driven personal assistant and does not use the opportunity to legislate this offer now. The deferral of the law is justified by a report on the cost calculations for the municipalities, which must be seen as a substitute argument, and which the government has had nearly six years to figure out. As early as 2005, the Health Minister, Sylvia Brustad, promised to follow up the Stortingen’s decision on the right to BPA. It's about helping to make the practical part of everyday life work – things that we go through in turbo travel, take for granted. It's also about dignity, respect and participation. A young BPA user said it so aptly: User-controlled personal assistant is for me my arms and feet. Finally, a little bit about another big and controversial relationship, namely the proposal for professional neutrality. The Christian People's Party experiences at the border of self-contradictors when it is called upon to take more responsibility for patient treatment — which requires more competence and more professionals — while at the same time introducing a profession-neutral law that will just weaken the requirements for competence. We believe that more stringent requirements need to be imposed on the competence of municipalities in order to ensure good health care. In addition to doctors, it must be, among other things: nurses, midwives, physiotherapists, psychologists and other health professionals. After massive protests, the government has proposed a law where they cannot, should not, give regulations, but there is nothing in the attitude of the government parties that suggests that this is imminent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e733	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e736	The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has, in the past, been clearly distinguishing between non-profit actors and private commercial actors in the health sector. The Christian People's Party even has to have its own arrangements for ideal actors who provide services to the public. In the law that we are dealing with here today, and in the plan that has been presented, the Christian People's Party is involved in several comments that equate ideal and commercial actors. Then I would like to ask the representative, Mr Davøy, whether there is a new policy from the Christian People's Party, and whether we are now fully equalising ideal and commercial actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e743	Thank you for the question. It is quite right that the Christian People's Party has wanted its own arrangements for ideal actors. It's solid. I guess in this case, the representative refers to what is said about user involvement in the law, which mentions both non-profit institutions and private institutions. When you have an agreement from the municipalities or the state with non-profit institutions or private institutions, there should only be a lack of user involvement in relation to those that are actually used.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e750	I'm going to ask you something that we've discussed before in this room, the health regions. After all, we build our specialist health service on the regional principle, namely through health regions. The background is that Norway is a large and long-term country with different population compositions and different housing structures, and the regional principle contributes to the best possible expansion of specialist health services in relation to these differences. In addition, regional organisation also contributes to a fair and correct distribution of resources, money. The Magnussen Committee has contributed to this, and it is fundamental. The Christian People's Party wants to wind up this system, together with the Advance Party and the Right, and centralize the management of a hospital directorate. Does not the representative Davøy see that you can then beat your legs under the fact that you can develop a specialist health service throughout the country in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e757	No, we don't see it that way. The evaluation of regional health enterprises showed that equivalent health services had improved internally in the four regions, but it had not improved significantly between regional health establishments. The reason why we want to wind up regional health businesses is that they have done a good job of structural change, but the time is now ripe to decentralize more tasks for health businesses out there. But we want stronger national political governance, and we believe that we are going to be in the department, preferably in the owner's department. Of course, it is necessary to clarify how best to do this. But unlike the Progress Party, we don't want to build a Health Directorate. We think it can be better equivalent services across the country if we get stronger national political governance from that place, from the department that the Health Council rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e765	I have a question about folkhellova. I see there's a note in the vote from the Committee, where the Christian People's Party is together with the Progress Party and the Right to: ‘emphasise that the policy instruments of public health work are, and must be, limited by some key principles of what is the legitimate domain of policy. These members consider it important to clarify that the right of individuals to take free choice and duty and the right to take responsibility for their own lives does not mean that public health gains cannot, alone and in themselves, legitimize a political action.» My question is, what is the Christian People's Party thinking about? I have to ask when it relates to alcohol policy: Is it so that ‘public health gains cannot, in themselves, legitimise a policy’ when it relates to alcohol policy and the line of government in that matter, for example:?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e775	I think legal regulation is very important, and in some cases under alcohol law, the representative is well aware of what the Christian People's Party means. In itself, not all political decisions can legitimize public health measures. So it's so that even if we decide a law, it's not sure that this is being followed up in a good enough way out there. Thus, the point of public health work is that it is not only the health sector that can adopt public health through this law. We need both the transport sector and the environmental sector to engage in different ways. It says it's just ten pst. which can be regulated by public health work under the health laws. That means that we can't actually just get enough public health work through health laws. It has to happen all over the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e780	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e783	The interaction reform is an important step in strengthening the community health service, and it is good that there is a broad consensus on the main content. However, I would like to start by saying a little about the national health and care plan. It's no secret that we in the left are not satisfied with this plan. It's vague about the hospital offer. It still contains municipal co-financing, and it fails in the area of municipal reform. The left considers that this results in the reform being implemented from above and not from below, which has been discussed by others. I take the last one first: the reform places a number of comprehensive work tasks in the municipalities. Should municipalities be able to take responsibility for the care of their citizens, many municipalities need to grow bigger and stronger. The left has difficulty believing that 431 municipalities are responding to the challenge of better quality in future care services. The left fears that the reform will fail if small municipalities with little competence are entrusted with tasks they are unable to take over. We can then risk getting a worse health service than we do today. Therefore, the Left has made proposals, which are soon distributed in the Chamber, I hope that the government will present a plan to reduce the number of municipalities in Norway in order to enable municipalities to meet the increased tasks resulting from the Cooperation Reform. With regard to national health and care laws, we believe that there is a need for a national hospital plan that defines what a hospital must contain and deals with health care priorities. Like the other opposition parties, the Left wants a more operational plan, which the Storting may want to influence. The left is not opposed to a transformation process in the hospital structure, but focuses on openness, honesty and political governance. We react to the government saying that today's decentralised hospital services should be maintained, while at the same time being drained locally for important functions. Therefore, the left considers that the government should provide at regular intervals a key message clarifying the government's policy on migration processes in health businesses. In the case of municipal co-financing, the Left considers that there are considerable uncertainties. It is detailed enough in terms of co-financing of deposits and immediate assistance, but unclear in terms of operational and investment. In an answer to a written question from the signed State Council in March: ‘Communities will be provided with fresh funds through the general growth of free revenues, specific task transfers from the specialist health service, as well as the funds related to the financial instruments of the reform.’;» This is neither clear nor reassuring for those municipalities that are now preparing to take more responsibility for the health and care needs of their citizens. The left considers the impact of the reform to be dependent on funding. For 2012, municipalities receive an amount to cover increased costs with the acquisition of ready-to-print patients. However, there is no incentive to build up municipal services that can replace hospital stays. Then the danger is that patients will remain in the specialist health service. The only difference then is that the health care company invoices the municipalities instead of the state. In particular, there is uncertainty about the interaction reform that concerns the Left, as well as time and scope. I think we must also start to see the reform from the standpoint of the municipalities. To illustrate my point, I would like to draw a quotation from the adviser in my own municipality, Bærum, who says: ‘I’m worried. Most of it is still unclear. The only thing that's certain is that this will cost the shirt." Because it is the case that the concrete funding for municipalities is not finally adopted before the adoption of the State budget for 2012 in this Chamber at the beginning of December. It gives Oslo the municipality just under one month after the decision in Stortinget has been completed. One month is, to say it cautiously, very short time. The extent to which the new tasks given to municipalities will be provided is not very unclear, and it is difficult to see the extent of the different forms of treatment now available to Norwegian municipalities. I know it is very difficult for Norwegian municipalities to start preparing today, precisely because the uncertainty is great around the actual scope of the reform. The government has proposed that municipalities be paid for ready-to-print patients from the first day. It is well and good, but the problem is that the basis for the number of patients for which the state compensates is marked by considerable uncertainty. To use the municipality of Oslo as an example, the estimate varies from 15 000 new lying days to 60000 new lying days. The municipality’s own registrations in the 2007–2010 period indicate that the number of days lying after the print-out notification is significantly higher than that of the department so far operating. It goes without saying that this can have a huge financial impact on the municipalities. The economy is one thing, but there will also be a lot of new professionals in place in Norwegian municipalities by 2012. But the number of different diagnostics that need to be treated is completely uncertain. The size of the different treatment services is quite blue, which means that it would be incredible to be able to put in place a quality good and adapted offer before 1 January 2012 – especially given that the financial framework is not in place until December, i.e. just one month before. Where all of these new patients are to be placed is a problem, but it's clear that if the Municipality of Oslo has to take over the premises of Aker Hospital to get this done, I'm told it will be the same as defeating the Municipality of Oslo. I would like to stress that this is a situation for Norway's largest city, with a good professional bureaucracy and a large and flexible health and care sector. How all the small municipalities with less than 2,000 inhabitants will achieve this, almost the Council of State must give us a good answer. To develop some other tasks that today have uncertain funding and uncertain scope, I can mention that the municipalities get 20 pst. co-financing responsibility for medical treatment in hospitals, increased cross-sectoral responsibilities, overview of local health challenges, implementation of the necessary measures to meet them and a new obligation for municipalities to provide daily subsistence for people in need of immediate assistance. That today's municipal structure and municipal economy should be able to bear this, I am very uncertain about. Law on municipal health and care services should clarify the duties and responsibilities of municipalities when the Interaction Reform is launched. The setting summarises responsibility: cooperation, competence, prevention, self-esteem, treatment, care and rehabilitation. Now the Left does not sit in the Health and Care Committee, and we got access to the setting only Friday morning, so I have to make sure that there is something I have not received, but in my head it seems unclear. I think the law is unclear in many areas, and that much is left to regulations, but there have been several representatives, among others. Duvøy and Höie, so I'm not going to spend time on it. I would like to stress that the Left is in favour of the major grips of the Interaction Reform, that we believe that major tasks should be moved to the municipal sector, and that a much larger part of the healthcare provision should be at the lowest level of administration possible. But I would like to mention how important the cooperation agreements as Norwegian municipalities are to have with healthcare companies, to ensure that the patient's best is always the basis for decisions, not economics or conflicts of interest. Patients should not be longer than absolutely necessary in hospitals, but printing patients prematurely without the provision of the excribed patients being good enough will also be very costly — both economically and humanly. Finally, I want to finish where I started. The interaction reform is an important step in strengthening the community health service, and it is good that there is broad agreement on the main content of the cooperation reform. Health services are to be done more closely where people live, municipalities are given a greater role, and we can hope that the quality of the Norwegian health service will improve. All of this is good. The big task is first of all to enable the municipalities to meet this task. The second major challenge is whether the Council of State quickly clears and clarifies the content of the reform through all its future regulations, so that the health system becomes more seamless, but not so seamless that it no longer hangs together or in the worst case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e827	Does the President assume that the representative will address the proposals that have been made?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e830	I am addressing the proposals that have been made by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e835	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e840	The representative's tendency began by saying that the left was a little dissatisfied with the plan, but the mantra that I thought passed through the post was that the answer is larger municipalities. When we look at the cooperation that is taking place today around the whole of Norway, we see that despite the fact that we have many municipalities and many municipalities of different sizes. So there must be something else that could be an incentive to get that plan, than to collapse. 12 LMSs, local medical centers, are evidence of the opposite. Where is Left's belief in the local authorities' commitment and opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e849	As I said in my post, we in the Left believe that a municipal merger is very important. We do not want to coerce the municipalities, but we believe that sooner or later we have to put a roof on how many municipalities we want in this country, and then you have to put in incentives for municipalities to join together voluntarily. It has been the Left's position for a long time, and we are actually very disappointed that it is not taken seriously in this setting, because we are absolutely sure that larger and stronger municipalities are important in order to carry out this reform. We must have great competence in Municipality-Norway. We don't have that per day. We know that we don't have that, and that's why it's important that we get attractive professional environments in larger municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e854	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e857	In our lifetime, there have been dramatic changes in the treatment of a number of diseases. This means that the healthcare system needs to adapt, so that we can always offer the best possible treatment. A few decades ago, if you had a heart attack, there was little to be done. Now the diagnosis can be made in ambulances or helicopters, and if necessary the blood clot can be removed in one of the hospitals that has the type of treatment. At the same time, knowledge of prevention has increased and mortality due to cardiovascular diseases is finally falling. With increasing life expectancy, more people are affected by cancer, but there are also more who survive the disease. We know that more people are affected by diseases like COPD, diabetes 2, and muscle and skeletal disorders, and that we're getting older. Therefore, we need to improve the treatment of patients with such chronic disorders who need follow-up over time, and often from several instances — not only to treat them when acute illness occurs. Changes in the picture of the disease and demographic trends make it necessary to change health and care services. We still have to change to improve. It's been two years since we left St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009, the Cooperation Reform, which described the direction and content of the reform. In April, we presented two legislative proposals and a national health and care plan, and now we are going to launch the Interaction Reform. Everyone agrees that it is better to prevent disease from occurring than to repair it — mainly for the individual, but a healthier population is also good for society. That is why we should focus on promoting health, good prevention and close follow-up of those who get sick. Interaction reform is both a policy reform and a long-term development programme to ensure quality and sustainability. The reform is already under way. Now we come up with the tools: economic, legal, organisational and professional. It's the sum of the instruments that change the price, and we're moving gradually and properly. A larger proportion of the growth in health budgets will come in municipalities in the next few years. We will follow the implementation closely in the future. It will pay off for municipalities to invest in public health. Preventing disease and building up own offerings shall be worthwhile. By means of municipal co-financing, municipalities will be given greater responsibility for the health of their citizens. They have to pay part of the bill when people are hospitalized, so that municipalities are aware of the costs of treatment, and that alternative use of money can promote health, prevent disease and provide equally good or better treatment where people live. The municipalities will be transferred more than a 4 billion. from hospitals to pay their share of these costs. Many outpatients stay in hospitals for too long. It's not good for the patient, and it's precious for the community. Therefore, municipalities must assume financial responsibility for patients who are ready to print from the first day. 560 million. kr shall be transferred to the municipalities. The money will be an incentive to make good deals for these patients. Let me make it quite clear: the cooperation reform will provide better treatment for all patients. Of course, anyone who needs specialist health care should still get it. It is neither the councilman nor the chief economic officer nor the rapporteur in a municipality who decides when patients are going to hospital. It's like before the doctor's decision applies. Many hospitalisations today can offer equally good or better alternatives through municipalities. At the same time, building up the competences of municipalities will be important for those who need to go to the hospital to actually get it. For some patient groups it is particularly important to get to a specialist quickly. This applies in particular to, for example: if serious cancer is suspected. In order to ensure rapid diagnosis and treatment of these patients, indicative deadlines are now being introduced for the different parts of the course of treatment. From 2016, all municipalities will be required to establish immediate assistance as a 24-hour stay for patients in need of treatment or observation. Some municipalities have already made such offers, for example: at the Fozen District Medical Centre. COLLEU patients are among those who get a safe and good offer there, which makes them more likely to drop hospitalisation. The new Health and Welfare Act clarifies a common value base for the entire municipal health and care service. We get a coordinated law, and the law has to ensure that interaction becomes a reality. In addition, amendments to a number of other laws are proposed to facilitate interaction. Municipalities and hospitals are required to enter into an agreement on interaction and resolution in several areas. A goal will be to avoid insertion if the patient can get an equal or better offer in the municipality. Who hasn't heard of the kidney disease patient who has to travel miles to the hospital? The cooperation agreements between hospitals and municipalities will address this issue. Patients should not be allowed to go to hospitals for treatment that they may be given as an alternative in their local environment. The law strengthens the position of patients and users. It shall ensure that they participate in the design of the service offer to a much greater extent than at present. Everyone wants to make a living. Those who are users of healthcare services have experience, knowledge and opinions that are essential for their further development. The law is designed in a general and professionally neutral way. This has been done precisely because municipalities should have the freedom to develop their services in line with local conditions and needs. Municipalities are different, the need for competence and capacity varies. We've taken that into account. But we make clear demands on the quality of the law, and the responsibility for ensuring responsibility is made clear. The Public Health Act is about thinking about health in everything we do, locally, municipally and nationally. Public health work shall be anchored in municipal and county plans to ensure long-term and systematic work. Municipalities shall use all sectors and instruments to promote the health of their citizens. The municipality itself shall have an overview of its own public health challenges, while the State shall be responsible for providing data and making it available to the municipalities. When we know the challenges and causes, we can take action that promotes health and balances social health differences. In order to achieve the objective of safety for all, the quality of health and care services in the future needs to be good. If we are to succeed, we need to train, recruit, develop and maintain competent personnel. The government has clearly shown that we are following up on the investment in several annual works in the municipalities. The number of persons employed in the care sector is increasing, and the target of 12 000 new annual works by 2015 is therefore within reach. We are currently legislating that all establishments in the local and specialist health services are to carry out systematic work for quality improvement and patient safety. I want to follow up on these issues in my own big message, which the government is going to promote during 2012. So to the claim of haste. I dare remind you that the work on the cooperation reform has been going on for more than three years – yes, even longer if we look at all the samples that have actually worked on the preparation for this. We have had an open and inclusive process along the way, with hearings, public meetings and meetings with municipalities and organisations. We've had a close cooperation with KS. We have received a lot of input, and we have developed the tools in dialogue with key actors. In political debates, we are often more concerned with disagreement than with consensus. I suppose that's the way it might have been in this case. It is a full opening-up to the Reform of Cooperation as an idea, and there is also a broad consensus on the main actions. It'll be heard here today, too. Then there is some disagreement about some of the instruments. This government does not just have the ideas for the cooperation reform. We'll implement them, too. While the right-hand side here will go forward slowly, the government is rather impatient on behalf of the patients. I want to create systems, so healthcare interacts better, and so patients get better follow-up. It's urgent. But we haven't had a hurry with the tools. They are thoroughly and well thought out, and we know from experience that hospitals and municipalities can interact. The interaction reform is about turning the effort more against prevention and thinking a little differently. We get far on purpose and commitment, but we also have to have systems that support a different way of thinking. That is what the means of reform are for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e902	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e905	At the close of the Council of State in relation to the pace, it should be noted that the hearing replies give a precise warning against the speed with which it has gone too fast. I would also like to remind the Council of State that, despite the work that has been in progress for three years, the matter was brought before the Stortinget just before Easter this year, and this has been a very fast process. I am afraid that the pace of this matter and above-and-down attitude may result in the Nav reform being seen as a model reform in relation to what we are going to adopt here today. The state councils themselves launched care for the elderly, and it is an important element in the whole. We are also afraid that this may mean that older people do not come to hospitals as quickly as they should. My question is: How will the Council of State ensure full hospital coverage by 2015 when you do not have an overview of the needs today and the municipalities are not allowed to operate with waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e912	The representative Per Arne Olsen was within many themes that it might be interesting to grasp, among other things. This is to warn against going too fast. Maybe I'll start with that, because I'll actually reject it. We've been working on the Cooperation Reform for years. The size has had St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009 for treatment, and it remained in Stortinget for a long time. It was pre-processed that came in concrete terms in Stortinget. Then have several other selections before it worked with the preparatory work for the Cooperation Reform, and there have been consultation drafts out there. It wasn't very exciting in April what we came up with, except that of course we've also listened to the hearings, the people's meetings we've had, the dialogue that has been, and all the recordings that we've got online through the online hearing we've had. So we've had a long and wide process. In the case of care for the elderly, we follow care plan 2015 on a regular basis and build it up according to both capacity and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e924	This government has trained for six years the introduction of a user-controlled personal assistance rating. Even the last case, which was submitted by this Council of State, argued against such a right-wing attachment. Now the majority of people have asked the government to come back with a rights fixation, while today the opposition is proposing the specific law clause. There are strong expectations that the rights attaching of user-controlled personal assistance will now be implemented quickly. Can the Council of State guarantee that the government will provide a law that establishes personal assistance for users with high needs and that the law will apply during 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e929	I would like to remind you that during these years of this government's sitting, a lot more people have been getting involved in user-driven personal assistance, which is a very good arrangement for very many disabled people who need that extra help in everyday life. Then there is a request decision, which the government of course will follow up. It also requires some further calculations. We're going to do that. We have done some work already – it is known – but we also need to continue working to get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e934	I would like to raise a slightly different matter. The tasks to be carried out at each level and the competences required by municipalities to perform different services are at stake. It may be given in the instructions later. It's in the law, and it's also confirmed by the government parties in the setting. I would like to ask the Council of State what is going to happen in order to be able to draw up these regulations once they have been added to a rule of law, because in my opinion, we should have regulations because we have imposed a professional neutral law. So what's going to happen, and how will the government deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e939	There has been a lot of talk in the debate about this with regulations and the response to the use of regulations. I want to remind you that there are already many regulations that apply. And many of the new regulations are for the redemption of old regulations. Then there's one that's going on just this with the division of tasks between the specialist health services and the municipalities that we want to work with right now. It's also a pretty strong revision of the law. There are a number of regulations to be worked on, and we will do that now – that work is already in progress. With regard to the division of tasks between the different levels, there is a new regulation that is of course important in the future. But this is also something that will be achieved through the agreements that will be concluded between municipalities and specialist health services, and which will be very important for what is actually being done at each level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e946	I used part of my post to talk about community reunification. Studies show that there are many out there who believe that it is important, or perhaps crucial, for this to succeed. Does the Council of State feel that it is as easy for a small municipality to assume the responsibilities arising from the new Health and Care Act, or does the Council of State agree with the Left that it can be a challenge for the smallest municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e951	The municipalities in Norway are very different, and it is not that the smallest municipalities can necessarily do what the largest municipalities do. It is also about having sufficient competence. Therefore, we are very clear that the municipalities should cooperate. And we have good examples, because, after all, we have had many years of interaction experience in Norway. We can go to Hallingdal Sickestugu on Ål, or Alta or anywhere else in the country. They are also good where municipalities work together. But if we're going to wait for the municipalities themselves to merge, I think we have to wait a long time. It is therefore important that municipalities cooperate and that they make good arrangements. And I've been around so much and looking at the care services, for example. in the municipalities that I can say that it is not always that the big ones have the best offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e956	I have to ask the question from the representative, Höie, one more time. His question was, in fact, whether the Council of State will come back to the Storting in 2012 with the rights fixation, and it should be possible to answer it with a yes or no – and no investigation. Is the State Council coming back to the Grand Council in 2012 in the case of BPA? The next question concerns a matter that is a little forgotten in everything we are doing today, that resident municipalities have to pay more than before for offers to recipients. There is something that will affect, for example: adults deaf and deaf blind, and the institutions we have at it both here in town, in Westfold and elsewhere. If you change this, it means that some local authorities that have had an offer today, including many others who come from the whole country, need to take the costs themselves more, and so on, may also have to cut them. I would like a response from the Council of State as to whether it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e964	The last part of the question was somewhat unclear to me. But it's hard to ask Per Arne Olsen's representative to repeat it – it's about host municipalities for the deaf and deaf?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e969	Among other things. If I may, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e974	Yes, if it can help clarify the debate, the President is liberal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e977	A change is made to the grant scheme, where the municipality of residence, for example: Oslo, which today has a centre for deaf and deaf-blind people, has to pay a higher proportion of the costs for those who go to school who come from other municipalities, as opposed to before, when the municipality you came from had to pay some of the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e982	Just that question I would like to get back to. The representative should receive a written reply to the change and how it is now funded. With regard to the question of user-led personal assistant, it is – as I have said – a very clear request decision that is here in connection with the work in Stortinget. Of course, the government should come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner as soon as possible. But it is also the case that some investigations have to be made, because there are some assumptions in that decision. We've already done investigations, but something else has to be done. Then we'll come back as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e989	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e992	If we in the committee have not agreed on everything – as far as the debate so far shows – then there has been good interaction within the committee. I would like to stress that. The work that is being completed today has been effective and well done – and this is also a tribute to the rapporteurs who have made a solid effort. As Sonja Mandt said, the cooperation reform is a great declaration of trust to the municipalities and – I want to add – the local politicians. I think they'll do the problems well, but a lot of fruitful cooperation is needed to maximise the health and social benefits of the reform. It is therefore positive to see all the municipal cooperation that is now being established — and a lot has already been established — within the health and care services. In this way, municipalities are also becoming stronger and better partners in the specialist health service, and most importantly: this is how the population can get even better health and care services – yes, quite simply, we get hope, better health. For prevention too, cooperation between municipalities can provide greater and new opportunities. The county councils also have an important role to play in this context, and there is reason to recall, and the voluntary organisations and other contributors, who will set up and be partners, will be important. And the municipalities must make sure that they are actively involved. In short, all good forces must be joined together to make the best possible possible way of life as far as possible. Then we've told each and every one the greatest responsibility to take the best possible care of our own health, as long as we have the opportunity. There is a great deal of commitment to the Interaction Reform in very many of the country's municipalities. There are 301 applications — many from cooperating municipalities — to participate in the 131 million. kr that has been allocated this year to project funding for the reform. It clearly shows that the time has come to implement the country-wide reform from 1 January 2012, with the economic instruments proposed by the government. I believe that municipal co-financing responsibility with the device and to the extent proposed balances well with the different considerations that need to be taken to ensure safe implementation, without exposing the municipalities and the specialist health service to adverse risks. The same applies to the scheme for municipalities to pay for outpatients who stay in hospital. I also believe that the transfer of funds between the specialist health service and the municipalities and the distribution of money between the municipalities will be carried out in the fairest way possible, as planned. It was also reassuring to hear the directors of the regional health establishments at the hearing of the Committee to ensure that the volume of money drawn from their activities is such that it is absolutely capable of handling. So the time will show how much of this money comes back to the specialist health service. I would like to stress the importance of good cooperation between health businesses and municipalities, not least for months until 1 January, in order to ensure the best possible start to the reform and minimum transitional problems. Any changes in the provision of specialist health services as a result of the reform must be well harmonised with what municipalities have been set up and can offer. The statutory agency is becoming important, but a good spirit of cooperation is also of particular importance. Health enterprises and municipalities also need to support each other in ensuring well-qualified staff and establishing fissile layers where they are natural. In particular, fission layers are related to the establishment and operation of the local medical centre. Today we have twelve such centers. Two of these are in my home country, Oppland: at the Otta in Sel municipality and at the Payernes in Nord-Aurdal. In the other municipality of Otta, with a few million also from the county, built a center of nearly 100 million. kr. The Inland Hospital, through the hospital at Lillehammer, is a very good and active partner. Sel has also received national project funds. Through this initiative, Sel provides municipalities and cooperating municipalities in the region with the opportunity to bring specialist health services closer to the local population, thus making the municipal services even better. I think it's so nice to see dialysis patients not to travel hours several days a week for treatment, as they previously did to Lillehammer. There are now six such treatment sites in Ottawa, and there have been dialysis facilities there for many years. In these days, the municipality deserves tribute for how it is committed to building up good health and care services. And they're not alone. A lot of Norwegian municipalities have for several years shown the way for the Cooperation Reform. This is not a top-down and bottom-up reform, as the right-wing parties claim when explaining the lack of their own alternatives. Cooperation is often about joining forces both professionally and economically. The proposed financial instruments are in no way intended to replace the good fissures; I would like to emphasise it strongly. I think Steinkjer is a good example. The local medical centre is financed by the co-operating municipalities, the local health enterprise and the regional health enterprise covering one third of each. How the funding of local medical centres is to be set up around Norway will depend on the content of the centres and the degree of specialist health services. The new Municipal Health and Care Act forms the framework for the Cooperation Reform together with the Public Health Act and the National Health and Care Plan. But the new law has not been triggered by the reform alone. There has long been a need to coordinate and clean up legislation, as it is now. I am also pleased with the changes made to the bill following the consultation round regarding the county council's ability to take a new decision in the context of appeal proceedings, as well as to be able to revoke the decision and send the case back to the municipality for further consideration. This is important for legal certainty for users. With the new Health and Care Act, municipalities get care-for-responsibility without being imposed on specific ways of organising services. The obligations of the municipalities are more general and professionally neutral than before. We believe that a detailed listing of some professional groups in the law could give the impression of a priority that could be unfortunate, for example for patients or user groups who need services from professionals who are not listed in the law. The old law says, for example: the physiotherapist mentioned but not the ergot therapist. Now they're going to be equal. Local health and care services will require access to a wide range of competent personnel. If new law increases the degree of freedom for municipalities to choose the organisation of services and if the law is professionally neutral, there are clear leads in the municipalities in terms of professional soundness in the service that ensure that the service is staffed by qualified personnel. The Ministry is also authorised to provide regulations on service content requirements, including provisions on competence requirements for different types of service. We've heard here today that the law is designed for the greater good, and that there are too many permits for the ministry to give regulations. I think it makes sense to proceed in this way, especially in the light of the fact that one here is going to undergo a major reform. Adjustments may then be needed along the way. For Norway, variation is needed — tailor-made on the basis of local circumstances and needs — but everyone needs to be provided with a qualitatively good range. For example, a detailed piece of legislation with clear boundaries between the specialist health service and the local authority’s responsibilities may hamper the finding of good interaction solutions. A Joint Committee states that there will be some overlaps and grey areas, and underlines the importance of their clarification by finding appropriate solutions that take account of assumptions and needs. This is precisely why it is open to the Ministry to provide detailed provisions on what is provided for by law in the field of health and care, and also to provide for the special health service law on what should be considered to be specialist health services — if such a more detailed description and clarification is found to be necessary. Today, the Stortinget will decide that user-driven personal assistance should be granted to users with high needs. We are asking the government to further clarify the economic and administrative consequences. For everyone, we have earned the most facts on the table, and we guarantee the quality of the device. But we stress that the government will quickly come back to Stortinget with such a proposal. The right shall be established within the current economic framework and shall allow those users to choose whether to grant assistance provided as BPA or as regular services. The inter-action reform has a great deal of upsurge. Now it's time to get started. If we don't know a hundred percent how it's going to go, it's important that we get started, and that everyone comes along – we like to say it this way – and that from the start. We don't have to go about pilots all over the country. We already have pilots, and the municipalities are impatient to get to grips with the state conditions that we are now adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1041	Interaction is the red thread in the issues we are going to deal with today, and that means that this should be a good day for most people. We're going to turn the trend from repairing people to more prevention. We want the help to be given at the right level, and we want the levels to interact. If we succeed, we will have a better and coherent health care system, a healthier society and better use of resources. There's a total accumulation behind these main thoughts. But we don't agree on the way there. There is an overall committee that supports a number of comments on the law, but at the same time there is no doubt that the vote also contains one view from the government parties and another view from an overall opposition. For the past six weeks, I have been closer to Norwegian health care than I would have liked. I've seen a health care system away from what the Minister of Health is talking about. I would therefore like to take full advantage of the opportunity to recommend the Minister of Health when she ‘follows developments closely’, that she follows closely where it happens, and not from her office. I've seen a health service with amazing employees who make the best of the situation, employees who are friendly and compassionate, but who have to say all the time: I don't know, I can't answer that, sorry that you have to wait so much, sorry that we forgot you. I've met a health care system that stands far from interacting, and it's not hard to see that we use the health care funds in a little bit of an efficient way. My daughter had only been given painkillers in 14 days and three medical visits. When one finally realized how serious her condition was, she was immediately admitted. She called me, and cried, and she told me that she was at Ahus. I was a little surprised by her violent reaction and tried to explain that it was great that something finally happened, that she was in good hands, and that they would now find out what was wrong. Cryingly, she tells me that there are 270,000 sick people in Norway waiting to get into the hospital, and when they put me in, it must mean that I am terribly ill. Do you think that means I'm going to die? she asks. I've never thought that long waits can seem so scary to people who aren't used to being sick. This, along with several other things we've experienced these six weeks, has given me new perspectives on our health care system. My daughter's illness has also shown me that that is not all that can be prevented. Her illness is not caused by anything she has done or has not done. We must never forget this. Now, when we're going to adopt a new law on public health, where the purpose of the law is to strengthen public health and equalise social differences in health and living conditions, we must never forget that there is much that can happen in people's lives that is beyond our reach and that is neither about poor choices nor about poor living conditions. We can never build down the specialist health service. The Public Health Act will now oblige municipalities to think health in everything they do and do. These are pages I've been particularly concerned about. Health is not just about what you put in. The well-being and the ability to create their own good lives are crucial for good health. Then it's about giving people the opportunity to make their own good choices, because they have the knowledge they need, and because society gives them this opportunity. We can never adopt good health. People must wish it and understand it. This is what the Progress Party believes in much more than forcing people through high taxes and bans. The party is also concerned about taking the focus away from the concept of ‘balancing the differences’ in terms of the amount of money each individual has to spend. The red-green government has been busy with this for six years, without success. Several statistics show this. Changing differences doesn't necessarily mean that those who have the least are getting better. If you live in an economic situation that makes every day a struggle to survive, it will not help you at all anything about the neighbor's bank book, for example. halved from 20 million. NOK 10 million. kr. The only thing that helps is that you get more to walk with yourself, so that you get to sleep at night and can make reasonable choices rather than make cheap and poor choices that you know are not good for your health. At the same time, it is important to give children good growth conditions. Providing child care workers and teachers with knowledge of how to detect care failure and give them the courage to report it to them will give more children a better start to life. But then it assumes child protection that has time to put proper action into the home immediately. If we give children a good childhood, we give them a better chance for good health at an adult age. It has also been important for the Progress Party to facilitate hot water basins, physiotherapy and treatment trips to warmer areas. Furthermore, caregiving, care pay, support contacts and user-driven personal assistants are very important measures to provide disabled children and adults, and their closest, good life. Good life, where you're part of society, gives good health. The fact that the government has been training a rights fixation of BPA for six years is simply incredible. The question must be what human view and quality of life we should base. Is it acceptable to rely on kind relatives and friends to experience something pleasant? Is it acceptable that you can never go to cinema because there are not enough individual hours granted to him? BPA users need support for community participation. A one-sided focus on health and care services becomes wrong. BPA gives disabled persons freedom, equality and a life course in which they make their own premises. Technical aids and an autonomous personal assistant open up their lives. Someone's already got the opportunity, others don't get it. The choice of delegating the right to freedom and equality of people with disabilities to municipal case handlers who are to serve the benefits according to what is covered in the municipal budgets is in stark contrast to the Workers' Party slogan that ‘all should join’. The Minister of Health's reply here today confirms that a rights celebration will not be in place in 2012. The Progress Party notes that local politicians in the municipalities often have different aspects of debate that have an impact on the health of the local population. Lack of commitment is not the main challenge, but the priorities that need to be made. Increasing the focus and increasing efforts to improve the health of citizens will not be feasible if the funds made available restrict the possibility of making good and proper decisions. The Progress Party supports the Medical Association’s comments that the greatest savings from improving health in the general population will benefit the State and that the highest health benefits are decades ahead. It is therefore difficult to see that the government's optimism about the new law is in line with the resources given to the municipalities. The progress batch therefore requires earmarked means to ensure optimal follow-up of the law. The Progress Party notes that an overall committee supports the observation that a society with equal opportunities for all should be established. That is why I am surprised to note at the same time that there are comments for individual groups in society. For the Advancement Party, there is no doubt: everyone, regardless of age, sex, residence and background, must be given exactly the same opportunity to be part of society and should be given the same opportunities to make good choices and to create their lives for themselves and for society. Discrimination, quotaing and special arrangements, whether positive or negative, are not a desired device for us. It is also surprising that I read that some parties seem to have poor knowledge of housing prices and the choice of residence. Here it is claimed that people and families with poor advice are at risk of having to settle in areas of noise and pollution, while the fact is that in the centre of the largest cities, where the noise and pollution are at the highest, housing prices are highest. Prices often fall in proportion to the reduction of noise and pollution — moving further away from the city centre. Furthermore, it is pointed out that with poor advice they have to settle in places where the offer of leisure activities is the worst. Many in the districts have far fewer leisure activities to choose from than people living in the city. But they haven't been forced to live there because of bad economics. Rather on the contrary, most will probably claim that they live like this because they want it, and because they thrive there. But what is actually a problem for those with the worst advice is that despite the government's belief that fruit and green in school are very important, the government has not been able to introduce this for all, and despite the fact that keeping the excesses low is important for those who have the least of them before, the excesses have increased every year with this government. Then we'll come back... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1096	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1099	The proposal for a new municipal health and care law clarifies the overall responsibility of municipalities to provide health and care services to the population. The obligation of municipalities continues, but is proposed to be more comprehensive and professionally neutral. The government does not want to bind municipalities with specific organisational or personnel solutions. Therefore, no guidance has been provided as to what competence is required to perform the various services or who is required to assess what competence is required. The Government considers that several occupational groups can carry out many of the same services. For the Right, it is essential that the services provided are of high quality and that they are provided as needed and in a timely manner. We are, however, in the same way as the State Health Authority, the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Norwegian Association of midwives, the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons and many other hearing bodies are deeply concerned that professional neutrality can create uncertainties about what is sufficient competence in the performance of certain services. The municipalities already have demanding professional tasks, the municipalities are very different, and the cooperation reform will increase tasks both in scope and complexity. It is therefore essential to ensure the quality of healthcare services. The right considers that the considerations of legal certainty and equivalence provide for a certain level of government governance and that the requirement of soundness alone will not be sufficient to maintain the quality of the provision of local authorities at a sound and desirable level. The legislative proposal, in its neutral form, may lead to municipalities recruiting personnel without the necessary professional competence in health and care services. This is a development Right cannot accept. There are certain occupational groups on which municipal health and care services are dependent in order to provide professionally sound services. The right proposes, together with the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, to include several professional groups and that the legal text § 3-2 first paragraph no. 4 is replaced by the following: ‘Examining, diagnosis and treatment, including fixed medical devices, psychological services, nursing, physiotherapy and midwifery services.’ The mention of these groups does not, of course, restrict the use of other occupational groups by municipalities in order to meet health and care tasks. The municipalities have no legal obligation today to provide psychological services, but we believe that this is a necessary clarification both as a consequence of the escalation plan for mental health and in view of the tasks that local authorities will now be responsible for in implementing the cooperation reform. We believe that a plan is needed to ensure the psychological competence of the municipalities. Municipalities need the necessary professional skills both for the services to be provided and for assessing what is lacking in competence to solve the health and care tasks. The Government and Government Parties consider professional neutrality to be beneficial in promoting the composition of professional competences across professionals and sub-services, and that professional neutrality would discourage the appearance of others as more important than others. If the ideology is that it's not important who should do it, just the job is done, the Right believes it's a dangerous way to go. It may reduce the need for high levels of competence in nursing and other health professions and poorer quality of health and care services for the population. Already today we know that over 30 pst. of those working in the care sector in municipalities are unskilled. Some disciplines are more important than others in a specific situation, depending on competence, role, function and, in particular, patients’ needs. The right believes that good interaction requires that individuals know their own subject, are clear on their own professional strength and pay attention to the limitations of the subject. The key to professional and multidisciplinary professional work is knowledge, respect and flexibility in interaction. Right-hand is against professional neutrality, because we believe that professional neutrality is impossible. The actions of professionals are always based on a value base, although values vary from person to person. Let me use the hospital as an example. All people exercise different forms of care, but nurses are responsible for professionally exercising health-promoting and rehabilitating care functions. We also know that poor nursing skills are now a challenge in municipal health services. We believe that professional neutrality will water down a completely necessary interaction in the health and care services in the municipalities. If everything is neutral, there will be no specific knowledge to add and no one to interact with. When professional neutrality is emphasised, structures will be controlled even more strongly. Maybe that's what the government wants. It is, of course, the link between professional knowledge and soundness that is essential for the quality of the services provided to users. Professional neutrality will primarily be able to affect those patient groups on which there is a strong focus in the cooperation reform, namely those with complex and complex needs for assistance and a high need for coordinated services, as well as those who will benefit from increased prevention and health promotion efforts. Good individual health services, good interaction between service levels and around individual patients are ensured by professional competence in professionals. Appropriate and financial organisation must not be at the expense of soundness. A clear professional identity and integrity is a prerequisite for good services in municipalities. The sum of safe professional identity provides interdisciplinary cooperation for the benefit of users. Right Document 8 on measures to strengthen the capacity and quality of the municipal midwife service is part of this debate, although the case rapporteur did not give priority to mentioning this in one word — and that is a signal. The background to the right promoting this proposal early in the spring was that it was in connection with the treatment of St.meld by the Stortinges. No 12 for 2008-2009 A happy event was taken with a request decision that the government should propose to strengthen the midwife service in terms of both capacity and quality, and that this should be presented to the Stortinget in an appropriate form. The Health Directorate was commissioned by the Ministry of Health and Welfare to carry out urgent investigations, according to the Directorate of Health, on proposals for measures to strengthen the midwifery service. The report ‘Development strategy for midwifery services. Service quality and capacity’ existed in May 2010. We therefore expected the government to put forward concrete proposals in the 2011 budget. It did not happen, and a vacuum arose in the follow-up to the birth message in the municipal midwifery. The delivery services, which became the responsibility of health businesses from 1 January 2010, do not at all function according to their intention, and many municipalities have lost their service, even on standby. The offer to pregnant and giving birth has simply become worse. The right is satisfied that an overall committee agrees with the Right in terms of the challenges mentioned in our proposal and the solutions proposed, except on one point to which I will come back. Pregnancy is followed up in the municipal health service. They are born in the specialist health service and have most of the maternity time in the community health service — and the local midwife service should therefore play a central role in the follow-up even during maternity. This requires interaction. We now expect the Council of State to follow up the decision of the Storting against both health businesses and educational institutions in order to ensure safe and sound midwife service. Norway, Norway, Norway, Norway, Norway, Norway, Norway, Norway, Norway, Norway, Norway, has expressed strong concern about the proposal on professional neutrality, and rightly so. In the big news A happy event stated to the National Council for Childbirth Care that the follow-up service must have competence in basic birth care, complications, etc. as well as being able to care for newborns in the event of transport birth. And the ministry says in the same message that it will be a midwife in practice, but – note this, President – that other occupational groups may also be involved. And I ask the Council of State again which other professional groups she believes have this competence to discharge this responsibility. Are they regulars, ambulance staff, home nurses, or taxi drivers? I asked the Council of State a question earlier in ours about who would decide the professional assessment, and then she replied that it had to be done in each case. It's not very reassuring. I speak of experience as a district midwife and midwife at the maternity ward for 15 years with standby and follow-up service. The way the service works today is simply not good enough, and in many places it is irresponsible. That is why the Right has made proposals to give women the right to midwifery in the municipalities. The Christian People's Party and the Progressive Party support the proposal, but the government parties vote against it and justify it with the importance of professional neutrality in the community health service. As I said, this is not reassuring. With a greater centralisation of births, more people will be able to go further to the maternity wards, and there is a greater need for sound midwife preparedness and follow-up services in the districts. It is now two years since the Storting treated the birth message. As far as the midwife service in the municipalities is concerned, as I said, it just gets worse and worse. The right has, as I said, promoted this proposal, and we do so in order to ensure that women – pregnant, birthing and maternity women – are given a statutory right to midwife services, and that poor municipal budgets cannot be explained out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1153	Since working with St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009 started by former Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the debate on the creation of an even better health service in Norway has gone land and beach around for over three years. The intention of the cooperation reform with proper treatment in the right place at the right time has been an overall objective of the whole reform and the work that has been done. Norway is identified by the United Nations as the world’s best country to live in, and this is largely due to our health care system and all skilled health workers with a high level of competence. Norway is currently spending more and more money developing an increasingly better health care system, which will provide security to the population when affected by disease. One of our greatest challenges is how to turn our efforts more from repair to prevention. Councillor Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen took over the important staff stick when the Cooperation Reform was adopted by the Stortinget in June 2009. Today, we are dealing with three important issues: national health plan, new municipal health care law and new public health law. Since 2009, the Council of State and the Red-Green Government have had a strong focus on the development of new health policies for the benefit of the patient. Organisations, institutions, health companies and municipalities have participated in the development of the issues currently dealt with in Stortinget. No one has previously invited as widely into the development of important health policy issues as this government. The participation has been very good. It has come in approx. 900 consultation responses to the two laws, more than 1600 consultation responses to the national health and care plan, and 697 consultation bodies have expressed their opinion on these developments. During these years, the Council of State, in cooperation with municipalities, health companies and non-governmental organisations, has set up several pilot projects on how good interaction between the primary health service and the specialist health service – interaction to help more people access better healthcare in their neighbourhoods, while contributing to the pooling and development of highly specialised services in a good and broad professional environment. The Public Health Act shall contribute to a social development that strengthens public health and balances social differences in health and living conditions. Public health work requires systematic and long-term efforts. The basis for good health is laid primarily outside healthcare. This challenges all social sectors to think health in everything we do, while challenging the ability of the health sector to cooperate with other sectors. Despite the fact that the health of the population is better than ever, there is still a high potential to promote health and prevent disease and premature death. Alcohol problems, the use of tobacco and sugar, diet and inactivity are the main areas to be addressed. Then it does not help to reduce prices and have more outlets etc. It does not contribute to better public health, but fruit and vegetables in kindergartens, fruit and vegetables in schools, contribute to strengthening public health. Much of this foundation for good public health is laid in childhood and youth. Public health is about creating good growth conditions for children and young people, preventing harm and disease, developing a society that facilitates healthy lifestyles, which protects against health threats and promotes community, security, inclusion and participation. This work must be done in the municipalities. Municipalities are responsible for their own citizens, but also for developing offers that are consistent with the challenges they face. As a start, it's set at 230 million. kr for local public health work. Norway has a large voluntary sector, which every day contributes with activity, competence and motivation to promote better public health. It is important that government support this work so that this sector can continue its important work. One can mention many organisations in both outdoor and other areas, including: Norway’s Sports Association – which has a lot of activity in all its municipalities and which contributes to physical activity every day in the everyday lives of children, young people and adults. These organisations offer many low-threshold services to all age groups, which are important and which we need to support in order to achieve our objectives of improving public health for all. The Red-Green Government has also noted the recordings of the Sameeting on the needs of Sami patients and users for organised services. This must also be emphasised in the future design of healthcare, especially in the municipalities that are in the management area of Sami languages, but also in other municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1184	Today is a special day for healthcare services in the municipalities of Norway: national health and care plans, new municipal health and care services law, and new public health law will be the foundation for the implementation of the Interaction Reform. Together with the financial instruments that Stortinget will later use as part of the community scheme, they provide the framework for the reform. Demographic changes and the emergence of lifestyle diseases require a change in the way health services are designed. The interaction reform is the biggest approach taken to meeting these challenges. Local authorities are now receiving significant financial incentives to work for better health among their inhabitants – yes, one can say that now it will pay to keep people healthy. They shall cooperate with entrepreneurs, but also with the voluntary sector. All good forces need to be taken care of. Through better interaction, the reform will ensure more, better and earlier health services where people live, i.e. decentralisation and prevention. That citizens can get more health care in – or in the vicinity of – the municipality of their home, that more people are getting help early, and that diseases are being preoccupied with the future, but ambitious goals. This will provide a better supply for individuals, but will also provide a better socio-economic impact. Powers, means and tasks should be moved to municipalities. It will impose great demands on organisation and interaction. Adding at all levels of healthcare services needs to cooperate for the benefit of patients and citizens. The specialist services must cooperate more closely with the local health service. Everything we do, we're going to have the inhabitants in the center. I have great confidence in the local authorities' ability to get new responsibilities and to solve several tasks. Municipalities throughout the country have already been doing this thinking for a long time. I have visited municipalities throughout the country where one has invested heavily – in local medical centres together with the health care centre, in health care provision in cooperation with voluntary organisations, or in rehabilitation facilities that can receive patients early from the hospital. Norway has hundreds of municipalities that brighten up their reputation for being at the forefront and for thinking about the long-term and the best for its inhabitants. I have no doubt that the Norwegian municipalities can handle the challenges they face through the Interaction Reform. The government wants to support with the cooperation reform during the good work done locally, and to continue this. It is this work that at the same time has our model of the cooperation reform, simply foresight municipalities that are able to work together and build good services locally for the benefit of their citizens. It is an overarching objective that health provision should be equivalent throughout the country. Local hospitals will also play an important role in achieving this goal in the future. This is confirmed by the national health and care plan, which is now under treatment in the United Kingdom. National health and care plan sets out the policy orientations to be followed by regional actors. The citizens of Norway shall have equivalent health services, irrespective of the place where they live. Today, the local hospital space is 60-75 pst. of patients in all Norwegian hospitals, and approx. 60 pst. of the patients being admitted have an acute need for assistance within 24 hours. Local hospitals must therefore have a clear place in treatment chains where they benefit from good and holistic treatment. I am pleased that the national health and care plan provides clear guidance for local hospitals where long distances and/or communications are difficult to manage, to have broad emergency functions, including anaesthesia. This allows citizens to feel secure that they will receive the necessary health care when something happens. Most of us can travel far when there is a planned entry into a hospital. Then we all want the best offer, regardless of where the offer is given. But when unlucky frames – on the road or at work, or when one of our closest suddenly becomes acutely ill, until, for example, a stroke occurs – then count the minutes. In this case, there will need to be emergency skills in the local hospital and ambulances to make the vital assessments and to initiate treatment or stabilisation for further transportation as quickly as possible. Health is one of the most important areas of our lives, at least when sickness frames, or when occlusions occur. Long-term efforts to improve public health will be an important base for the work that municipalities are about to take over. Keeping us more healthy when we get – more – older will also have a benefit for society, but all of us, most of all for the individual, who get better quality of life and a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1215	The current social service law will be replaced today. I would therefore like to point out a little of all the legal offences against people with developmental disabilities that are covered – 34 out of 35 supervision shows the law. The Norwegian Association for the Developmentally Impaired Write the following on its websites: ‘Today, Stortinget adopts a new Health and Care Act. NFU has argued to strengthen state control in the field. We have received a good response from both Sv and Ap. When the law represents a deterioration in the legal security of people with developmental disabilities, this can be difficult to understand as other than that the Center Party with Liv Signe Navarsete is the plug in the system. Minister of Local Affairs Liv Signe Navarsete is sacrificing the legal security of people with a lack of development of fear of imposing more duties on municipalities. One should definitely ask the question of the ethical basis of prioritising rural policy at the expense of human rights.’.» How does the Council of State feel it is to have to bear – that we should continue to break the law against the developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1227	As a municipal minister, and as a party leader, of course, I cannot accept the law against neither mental retardation nor other groups in our society. More groups in society have received legal protection, and there is a pressure from even more groups to get it. What's important is that we enable the municipalities to provide the services they're going to have, to everyone, regardless of which group you're going to have to divide the inhabitants into. All citizens should be allowed to receive the services they require. If you get enough rights, the permissions will ultimately not mean anything to those who have them, then they will all have the same rights – the so-called "trib" effect. What this government has done is to strengthen the municipal economy, to strengthen the municipalities – 48 000 more people are doing a lot of work every day to get better services in this country, not least those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1234	In the context of the introduction of municipal co-financing for specialist health services, this is now limited to medical diagnosis. These medical diagnoses have in common the fact that they mainly affect older people. For this reason, the municipal councillor has allocated this money according to age criteria, which is a clear confirmation of this. In 2010, the State Health Authority, which has had a four-year commitment to overseeing services for the elderly, presented a report showing that direct hospitalisation, rather than through hospitals, where diagnostic competence is available, was very often cited as an example of service failure. This report also shows that many elderly people are late for hospitalisation. The government’s own selection of experts in the field of elderly medicine has come to the same conclusion: older people are late for hospitalisation. How will municipal co-financing for patients who are largely elderly improve their access to hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1243	The reform introduced today by decisions taken here in the Grand Duchy will provide more people with better services. I've seen in my life what it means that the distance isn't too long to the hospital when you have older people with complex disorders, because there are many installations. The key word here is that one should have decentralised competence. Those in need of hospitalisation will also receive hospitalisation in the future. It's not that one should silt among older people and say that when one is over 80, one should not have a hospital. Those who need it should get it, but one should get even better skills, and one should be able to treat more people, both younger and older, closer where they live. It gives better quality of life. But the keyword is competence. It will be an important work in the future to ensure that municipalities and healthcare professionals need the skills they need in order to maintain it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1248	Until now, municipalities have been able to seek project funding related to the Cooperation Reform, which we have been discussing earlier today. That scheme is to be phased out as new sources of funding will emerge and will apply from 2012. It's hard, when we read the proposition, to figure out how this is going to happen, and how fast it's going to be phased out. Many municipalities ask whether the projects they have now started will no longer be carried on by, for example: health establishments withdraw from them. That's the concern. At the same time, grants shall also be granted to new cooperation projects, where the requirement is that an agreement be concluded prior to the grant of grants to municipalities. My question really concerns the relationship between what is to be phased out and the new ones coming in, how long they should last before they are also phased out. I just think it's a little bit difficult to figure it out in the proposition. I guess the municipal minister has looked a little bit closer at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1255	Now it is also stated in the municipal bill that the Ministry of Health and Welfare is continuing to work, and that we are also coming back to the budget with concrete clarification at some points that can be perceived as not fully clarified in the proposition. It's said very clearly, because the work is still going on. Of course, when they relate to the means of interaction and to the projects that have been launched, they should be further financed. It's natural when it's been trying over the years to put this in place as a permanent scheme. It shall be agreed with healthcare professionals that the projects to be funded have been anchored in an agreement with the health care provider. I think it's natural. Then it is important for us, and for me, as the Minister of Municipal Affairs and for the Minister of Health and Care, to ensure that the criteria from those agreements are so good that one gets both equivalent parties to the agreement and an agreement that takes height for the projects that are to stand up for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1262	In his previous reply to my reply, the Council of State says that the most important thing is to enable the municipalities to pay for the offer to have. Then the paradox is that this reform too is underfunded. When it applies to patients who are ready to print, it is estimated that e.g. Oslo should be covered 15 000 days of lying while they actually have 32 000 days of lying. That means that the lag on it alone is between 60 and 120 million. kr. Nevertheless, one of the other main challenges is that municipalities have not had the financial opportunity to build up their skills, as they are now when taking over the supply from the specialist services. The question is therefore: Is the Council of State comfortable with the financial means involved in this reform and those already received by municipalities, and is it sufficient to ensure the development of local authority competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1269	The reform to be introduced now is calculated in the same way as we calculate other reforms in terms of costs, i.e. by including KS and the partners involved, together with the departments, and calculating. I trust the invoices that have been provided, of course I do, because they are dictated according to today's situation. When it comes to patients who are ready to print, we have said that there are some municipalities, including Oslo, that are not getting this fully covered up today, because we have a lot of patients lying around that the municipality should actually have opposed. Already in 2003, the right-wing government introduced a system in which municipalities would take over these patients without five ears in compensation. Now there's a means to do it – including Oslo, which can't cover this at the moment, they've told us to get compensation in a transitional phase – so they can build up the services locally. It's an important point, which is also included in the communicative proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1276	The country's older people, who will find it more difficult to get to the hospital with this reform, have no reason to be reassured by the Council of State's previous responses. Firstly, I have not seen anyone who has arranged for the kind of specialist competence in hospitals to be decentralised to the municipalities. Secondly, the law now being passed will be so-called professionally neutral. This means, in fact, that what is adopted today is a weakening of the requirement for municipalities to have health competence. The opposition, like the State Health Authority, the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Norwegian Association of midwives, the Joint Organisation of Disabilities and many other hearing bodies, has pointed out that through this reform the municipalities have a weakened requirement to have health competence, while at the same time being pressured to take on major new tasks, not least to sick elderly people with complex disorders. How should a professional neutral law improve the competence of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1284	It is important, when the Minister of Health and Health is here, that she answers the health questions. For me as a municipal minister, I am thinking about the competence of the following: The decentralisation of competences in the reform is about building local medical centres, both in towns and districts. There's already been a lot of places. It's actually the model, in part, of the reform. There are specialists coming out – to Valdres, to Hallingdal, to Jären, to Ørland – and there are a few days a week and doing a lot of tasks. Dialysis may take place locally instead of travelling long distances with the costs it incurs for the health of the individual. Not all patients have to travel long distances, but specialists go from hospitals to the local medical centers. There's something of the cloud here. The specialists can also be involved in and build skills for those who work there permanently. So here's a lot of columbi eggs, and it's a lot of good in this reform that will benefit people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1293	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1296	Today’s debate includes the proposed representative in Document 8:130 S for 2010–2011, which calls for the introduction of a so-called ‘packaging’ process in cancer treatment in Norway, following a model from Denmark. As rapporteur on this subject, I shall begin with it in my speech. The Danish 48-hour cancer treatment model operates with a deadline which includes an investigation to be conducted within 48 hours and a plan for its implementation. The silver investigation period will naturally vary, because different diagnostics require tests of different durations. Therefore, it is important to take into account the entire course of patients, from referral from regular to initiation of treatment and with clear targets for time use related to the individual types of cancer. In Denmark, the ‘package course’ model was introduced after several years of criticism of long waiting times in cancer treatment. Last year’s figures were actually lower in Denmark than in Norway for several serious cancers when measuring the median waiting time from referral to treatment initiation. Denmark still has a lower survival rate after cancer than other Nordic countries. In 2010, the State Health Authority pointed out that the level of risk in Norwegian cancer treatment is too high. This has to do with several aspects – such as late diagnosis, poor flow of information and the lack of coordination between the different actors. It is therefore very important for the Minister of Health and Welfare to inform the Health Directorate earlier that the national guidelines for the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of cancer patients should be reviewed. The aim is to introduce maximum time limits for each of the different stages of the investigation and treatment of cancer patients in all health establishments. More money for patient treatment, more quality indicators and clear deadlines for the different parts of the patient’s course are important pillars of government policy. Good information on actual waiting times, where the figures from regional health establishments are regularly updated, is another important element of the requirements that the Ministry of Health and Health now imposes on health businesses. Several regional health businesses have started work on good and effective patient trajectories, so that unnecessary waiting can be eliminated. The University Hospital of North Norway has launched an improvement in the effectiveness of patient progression for several cancers, including lung cancer and cancer of the stomach and intestines. Compared time use before and after the introduction of a complete patient cycle shows significant improvements and less variation in patient waiting time – despite the fact that the University Hospital North Norway, after the functional distribution in Health Nord in 2010, received more cancer patients belonging to the regional health company than it had before. It shows that much can be achieved by entering into and improving the organisation of patient processes themselves, without necessarily requiring an increased financial framework. There has recently been a strong public searchlight for patient injury and patient safety. It's important. The first patient injury report from the Norwegian health care system came in 2004 and was carried out by Professor Peter F. Hjort, who then estimated that approx. 15,000 people were injured annually in the healthcare system, and as many as 2,000 were likely to die. That's unacceptable numbers. That's why the work this government is doing is so important. This work includes the new guidelines for waiting times in cancer treatment and related new quality indicators. The large patient safety campaign In safe hands was launched by the Minister of Health in January this year and involves all health businesses. Work needs to be targeted both at individual and system level to increase safety and to make the health sector a learning organisation. We need to have good reporting systems and a good follow-up of adverse and serious events. A call-out group under the authority of the State Health Authority for immediate action in the event of serious incidents or death in the healthcare system was established last year and shall be evaluated after two years. Out of the national patient safety campaign, a national set of patient safety indicators shall be developed, which shall enable an ongoing evaluation. I'm glad that this government will not be able to present the first major patient safety message in a long time. I think that will provide a good basis for the important work we have to do in this field in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1318	The things we are dealing with now affect most people’s lives in many areas. I am going to focus most on the health and care plan, but also on the other issues. Although there is a lot of good in health and care in Norway, much remains to be done. It is a paradox that it is in the areas where politicians have come close to monopoly, that there are still most shortcomings and not least a great deal of uncertainty in the population. In the national health and care plan, the government assumes that it is a public responsibility to promote good health and not least to prevent disease. The party of progress is somewhat skeptical of such a categorical claim, as we are clear that each individual is primarily responsible for his own health. We believe that the public's task is to finance, organize and guide the population so that each individual citizen can make the choices that they think are best for themselves and his health. That's why we're going to go against several of the foresights of the other parties. We are opposed to the principle of using whips to make the population do what this will want. Many years of experience have shown us that this policy does not work. Regardless of how much we strengthen prevention, we will also need good health care for the population in the future. If we are to have good and predictable health services, we need to make use of all the good forces in society, including the private ones. Then it is a pity that there is a review of the issues we are dealing with, that there is a great deal of desire to omit the private forces in prevention and not least in treatment. Because it seems strange that we do not choose to use all the skills, experience and labour that they can contribute to. Even more strangely, when the government itself admits that increased use of private operators can help reduce health cows. But this concession has very little value as long as no concrete proposals are made on how we can use this resource. An important part of people’s health is not least about safety — security to know that health services are there when the need arises. At the same time, we see that we have had a lot of uncertainty in the population around the local hospitals for a long time. We must take this uncertainty seriously. Then it would have been desirable for a clearer and clearer government, which was clear about what it wanted, and not least took people's concerns seriously. These are some of the reasons why the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want an operational hospital plan integrated into the health and care plan. This would result in far greater predictability for employees, but not least for current and future patients. If, at the same time as we introduce a hospital plan, we wind up regional health companies, we get the opportunity to think completely and predictably, which will be for the best of all. And then I want to be brief about dentistry: I think it's a paradox that we still haven't equated our teeth to other health. There have been many promises from many parties here without having been followed up in practical politics. But when everyone has a common goal, it's strange that only the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the proposal to facilitate free dental treatment for all the elderly with disabilities. The point of progress is of the opinion that there is still much to be done in the care field in line with the area of health. In this area, too, there is a policy that has not managed to solve many of the challenges we face. It may be time to change medicine and start with full state funding and non-discrimination of all actors in society. Only then will we be able to solve the challenges and provide people with the care and care they need when they need it, and not as today, when the local economy and local politicians want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1335	The interaction reform focuses on preventing disease and harm rather than repairing afterwards. The focus is on balancing health differences and providing proper treatment at the right time and at the right place. That direction I think everyone agrees with, but that's the way forward where the vision divides. Sometimes when the health debate goes, you can get the impression that most things are wrong in health care. Therefore, I think it is important to bear in mind that Norway has several times been assigned by the United Nations to the world's best country to live in, and much of the reason why that is just our health care system. But even though we're among those who have the best health care in the world, we still have challenges. We're getting older, and we're living longer. It is a positive sign that we live in a good welfare society, but it also gives us growing need for health care. That's why we have to work all the time to get better. The two laws and the plan we are dealing with here today will facilitate this. We have good health in Norway in general, but we see great differences in the population. It's a challenge we have to take seriously. Of course, everyone has responsibility for their own health, but it is important to help people make good choices on behalf of their own health. If we're going to get to that, we can't just focus on health care. There must be a focus on diet, physical inactivity, smoking, alcohol and drug use. Other factors affecting health differences are school drop-outs, educational attainment, income, social networks, industrial links and poor working conditions. That means we have to use all sectors. When the representative of Wiborg claims that the imposition and increase of taxes does not work, it is completely wrong. Smoking and tobacco taxation show a reduction in smokers, especially among the younger. The interaction reform suggests that municipalities should be given greater responsibility both for prevention and for tasks performed by specialist health services today. That is why it is positive when we look at a study carried out by the newspaper Kommunal Report that eight out of ten rapporteurs say they are positive about the reform. The interest in the reform is also evident when we see that there were 301 applications for this year's means of interaction. Around the whole of Norway, there are good interaction measures in progress. Several local medical centres have been opened and several are under planning. That's why I'm a little surprised how worried the opposition is when we see all the good projects going on. When we dealt with the interaction message, the opposition was there and said it was too late, and there is too little left of the content. Now we're dealing with the law and the plan, and the tone here today is that it's too much, and it happens too fast. It is therefore good that we have the positive attitude towards the reform in the municipalities. This will help us to succeed. The representative, Höie, said he wanted a bottom-up reform. Then I can tell him that that's exactly what this reform is. Local medical centres, hospitals, etc. no former Minister of Health Hanssen found out. These are the ideas and measures that municipal workers and local health businesses have put forward. I really recommend taking a trip around the country and seeing all the positive interaction that exists out there. The new law gives municipalities a care-responsible responsibility for the health services for which they are responsible, in line with health businesses. In order to succeed in the reform, it is important that specialist health services and municipalities work well together and that binding agreements be drawn up between them. Health enterprises are responsible both for contributing competence but also for funding in the local medical centres. Municipalities have a high degree of freedom in how to organise healthcare, but there are also major demands on quality. I am pleased that the department has clearly included mental health in the legal text to stress that mental health and care services are part of the municipality's care-for-responsibilities. We have had a stepping-up plan, and there has been a lot of focus on mental health, but we still see that it can be down-prioritized in relation to somatic health. That is why I am pleased that the agreements between health companies and municipalities are also clear on the cooperation on how the mental health area should be made clear. I am pleased that we are finally there that users with high needs will now be entitled to a user-controlled personal assistant. The request for the Government to come to Stortinget quickly with a proposal for a right is very positive, and that is a milestone. It is important that we get a good review of the cost assessments for the municipality, and not least that that review takes into account the positive socio-economic consequences of a right-holdership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1361	The opposition has insisted throughout the day that this reform is built from top to bottom and not from bottom to top. There's a lot of good reasons to claim it. The main challenge of this reform, as in all other reforms, is that one primarily has system focus. Local authorities have to deal with this and this and the systems have to work like this and so on, and then a patient forgets the whole thing. That is the biggest challenge of this reform. It is now decided that until 2016 health care professionals will have their frames reduced by 5 billion. In spite of the fact that the need for growth within health care establishments has been exemplary for the past 10–15 years. So now you're going to turn the tile around and start cutting the frames of healthcare professionals, without having used a single penny to build up the skills that are needed in all of the country's 430 municipalities. That's a bad patient offer. Therefore, these proposals that the government party is voting for today are far from adequate to create a reform for the future. Last weekend I spoke to a local councillor who was quite convinced that the municipalities got 4.2 billion. kr more in 2012 to start with the Cooperation Reform. It shows some of the challenges when local authorities do not actually have a better understanding of what this reform entails. It is not strange that they have difficulty in understanding it in municipalities, when the majority of them don't understand what this will give them of challenges for municipalities. Competence is built from below. When you reduce the framework for healthcare professionals without building up their skills, it's like seeing the nurse working in the hospital today go from a 98 pst. job break to 97 pst., to 96 pst. osb. In spite of the fact that 280,000 patients are still waiting for treatment, it should be stepped down. Then you have to build it up in the municipalities after a cut in health care, but then the municipal health service will be on the left-hand side of the road. This responsibility and this challenge should be seen by the government. There is no process room for conversion. There is no time and there is no economic incentive to meet the challenge that local authorities are facing. The local authorities are going to survive. The toughest frames are those that reduce health supply. If one is to change and introduce municipal co-financing, a start should be made where the Progress Party has said, by introducing means of conversion both in healthcare providers and in municipalities, so that municipalities can gradually build up the competences they need. Several municipalities then have to cooperate, because the municipal structure is inappropriate. It's the one. The second is that only then will patients escape the disadvantage of being moved from the specialist services to the primary services. Furthermore, the government party today is pleased that a now should also have anaesthetics in local hospitals. It's all right, it's a step in the right direction. But having people in hospitals who can numb the patients, when those who are going to continue the operation, is actually no longer there. It's a pair of paradoxes that you have anaesthetics in local hospitals, while one, for example, has an anaesthetic condition. removes the orthopeditilbode in Nordfjordeid, for which the government has decided. The battle for the local hospital was in this room a few months ago, when the Progress Party decided to stop the reorganisation process linked to local hospitals. Then the Center Party was absent. So are they today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1380	It is a special day for Health-Norway when the Stortinget today adopts the overall instruments of the Cooperation Reform. The laws and health plan are operationalising thoughts and visions about the health service of the future from the Storing Communication on the Reform of Cooperation and from the majority comments. The cancellation message came in June 2009. The measure addressed the notification in April 2010, following wide-ranging consultations, and is currently dealing with laws and plans. However, after two years of political debate and solid clarification of problems and opportunities, there are some who want us to slow down. There is a broad political consensus about where we are and where we are going: we are going to prevent more and offer more opportunities where people live. Nevertheless, the opposition will delay these improvements for the Norwegian people. We want a safe implementation of both the new municipal health service and the specialist health service. The interaction reform shall be implemented gradually. Cooperation reform is a development programme. Many municipalities and hospitals have already come a long way. The Government will systematise and improve work on quality and patient safety through its own monitoring message and through changes in the Health and Care Act. The legislative proposal covers, inter alia: in order to transfer the notification scheme under the Special Health Service Act § 3-3 of the National Knowledge Centre, in line with international recommendations. By keeping the reporting system separate from the sanctioning system, international authorities believe that the reporting frequency will increase and will contribute to faster learning from adverse events and increased patient safety. However, it is important to stress that health surveillance should continue to receive notifications of serious incidents and serious system failures. The legislative proposal therefore envisages that the knowledge centre should notify the State Health Authority when there is some evidence of serious systemic failure in the communications. Most of us will need help from healthcare for a short or longer time as we get older. Interaction reform will strengthen healthcare for the elderly. Many elderly people have multiple diagnoses and complex disorders. Therefore, many will enjoy more advanced healthcare where they live. In many parts of Norway, there is a long route to outpatient clinics, laboratory studies, cell toxicity treatment and dialysis. This is already different for all those who are currently receiving help from the 12 local medical centres that have been built up. Through the Interaction Reform, we need to strengthen the competence of the care sector. It is important that the university and higher education sectors include in the education programmes the new tasks that will meet many of the newly educated. I have had the opportunity to travel all over the country and have participated in perhaps hundreds of meetings with the introduction and debate on the cooperation reform. There are many common features at these meetings. One common feature is the interest in preventive health work. There is a clear feedback from all these debates: people are ready to take up the fight against the new bacteria in their lives. They're called tobacco, alcohol, sugar, and we're moving too little. Fortunately, we have the knowledge that is needed to combat type 2 diabetes, coal and many cancers. Another common feature of the meetings is the number of municipalities that have already done a lot, often without realizing that it is at the heart of the cooperation reform. I visited the City Council and Administration in Search last week. They've come a long way! They already have a public health plan, care plan, short-term places, dementia coordinator, agreement with the hospital, agreements with neighbouring municipalities, many bicycle paths and a great coastal path. And at the top of it all, the local government will have 1.1 million next year. kr to take responsibility for ready-to-print patients. Last year, there were only two days of sleep in the hospital. Finally, through the debate today, the opposition is creating uncertainty about the provision of health to the elderly in the future. In reality, the opposition expresses total distrust of all the country's decision-makers, of all the country's medical doctors and of all the country's medical practitioners. Because it's like this in us, and it's going to be like this in any year to come, that the doctor, and only the doctor, will decide when to go to the hospital, regardless of age. And the doctor must make the decision on a professional basis – exclusively on a professional basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1399	Rarely has one thing been met with more faith in bringing about change than the case of this so-called reform. When former Minister of Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen presented this matter in June 2009, the following can be read from NTB: ‘The hospital appropriations shall not be cut and medical positions in hospitals shall not be liquidated.’ Today, in the long term, we are moving towards confiscating funds from hospitals, and we do not know what growth will be like. Former Minister of Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen stated during an interview with VG Nett: “I clearly believe that logistics needs to be improved, and now I am inspired by, among other things, the car manufacturer Toyota.” I am a little uncertain about what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen learned from Toyota, because afterwards, at least Toyota has had to call a number of cars because of significant defects and defects. In fact, this example may have been better than what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen saw at the time, because there's unfortunately reason to believe that part of the reform that we're now about to adopt can have the consequence that we can get more swing door space, precisely because you're going to try to get the patient out faster in the municipality. We may get significantly larger municipal differences, because the municipal structure, among other things, has not been put in place. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen spoke so eagerly at first, before he had to go in and get a majority in the red-green government before the presentation. It was quite clear that at that time the size of the project had to be discussed in order to meet the objectives that this reform was intended to achieve. They're talking about a place between 20,000 and 40,000 people in this kind of cooperation. This cooperation is not in place. We are in the process of implementing the reform itself, the laws and the rules without the foundation of the framework. This is very objectionable. Furthermore, the representative was Toppe in his contribution to it, when she characterised the scepticism that the opposition had in this matter. She pointed out to Ibsen: "Yes, think it; wish it, would it, but do it!" It's something else. What's special is that if the representative Toppe had also gone further in Ibsen's quote, she would have actually been able to find an even better quote, which is better suited to this matter that is being dealt with today – it actually stands on the pavement right outside the house here – and sounds as follows: "And life has taught me not to believe in sayings." That's actually reason to remember in this case, because on the basis of the expectations that have been expressed on the matter itself, this is a matter that can almost be met by what the population would have thought would happen. What many people now fear is that this could lead to the rationalisation of healthcare for those who need it most. This is a serious warning that we should consider. We have also seen in the care sector that what we have a major shortage is precisely personnel. I then put the big question to the Council of State that I expect the Council of State to answer during the debate. If you don't have to pick up games, among other things. from the hospitals, as the Hanssen State Council in its time said not to do, I have to ask, where are these people to be picked up from? Everyone in this room is concerned with prevention, and everyone in this room wants an improvement in both quality of life and supply. But one of the most important factors that we have to actually get in place today are the local hospitals, not least the content and function of the local hospitals. Although it has been said that local hospitals should have anaesthesia, what about the other important factors that must be present in a local hospital? We have to stop talking about local hospitals just like a building and start talking about the contents of local hospitals. That is what is important, and unfortunately – this reform has faltered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1435	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1438	Unlike the previous speakers, I am very happy that the government has answers and not just questions. I get a little philosophical when I hear such debates. One can ask himself the question: Does sickness contribute to living? And where will it end? Many from other countries view Norway as an almost heavenly realm, which is an important reminder. We're in the elite division. We're at the top of the world. The government rules with political wisdom and wisdom, and now a seven-mile step is taken to anchor a synopsis of interaction. Balancing social disparities in health is therefore one of the main challenges facing us in implementing the decisions taken here today. I would say, as the representative Sonja Mandt said, that these laws and the plan adopted today do not just mean practical things, but that is actually a whole new way of thinking. Then it's important to draw attention to the purpose paragraphs, because it's those that show the way. I want to signal something that I think should be included in the regulations that will be further worked on. One of these elements is the focus on children and young people. The Public Health Act has not explicitly referred to children and young people as a special area of activity, but in most other laws in the health and social sector, children and young people are in their own area. It is also time to get these children and young people into the penal code and the criminal law. But to balance health inequalities, we are totally dependent on starting with children and young people. The user perspective needs to be strengthened, and that is very good. A clear focus should be on children who suffer from the lack of responsibility of parents or caregivers in terms of care ability when discussing user involvement. User involvement of children and young people living under such conditions passes through parents who do not do that task. As far as technology is concerned, it is very good that it is pointed to key areas for the use of new technologies. It is very good that an overall approach is taken, so that a person gets a consistent practice out of the health sector. Technology will be important for all interaction and communication, but also for quality, for the everyday and living conditions of the individual. Technology should not just give lives but help people to live, and it should be used actively to balance health inequalities, so that one has to think about technologies in the field of drugs, mental health protection and chronic and complex disorders. Finally, I'm just going to comment on a little bit of what has emerged from the right-hand side about top-and-bottom-position. They'll get more top-and-down attitude with their own directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1460	I have a question for the Minister of Health on this matter, because the treatment of it – both the proposition and the behaviour of the government parties in the position – cast doubt on a very important relationship for the Christian People's Party, namely: Is the government to trust when making agreements? In the context of the guarantee of dignity, the following wording was negotiated between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government Parties: ‘With this in mind’ – i.e. the guarantee of dignity – ‘the legal status of the elderly will be strengthened and thus lead to an enhanced service provision for this group of users. This reduces the possibility for municipalities to refuse services on grounds relating to the resource situation and the availability of personnel.’» I want to know why this negotiated wording has not been passed on to the proposition and position in the law on the guarantee of dignity that Stortinget is dealing with today. Is that a glitch? Or is it such that the government no longer adheres to these formulations, which were agreed between the then Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and the leadership of the Christian People's Party and the Left at that time? So I want to use the rest of my speaking time to say that this is a brand day for Norwegian healthcare. The Wisløff Committee, set up by the Bondevik II government as early as 2003, made an entirely correct diagnosis and gave its decision to the then State Council in 2005. So it's been six years. Finally, we have got a picture on the table of a reform that is now to be implemented. It is a sketch, because there are no significant parts of the person to be included in the regulatory body and there is no credible implementation plan. I am of those who believe that this matter had been served by having reached the Grand Council in the past, but it had been served by the fact that more progress had been made, as was done with the firmness reform, which is the most successful health reform in the last 15 years. I can say that because it had its background in several governments and changing majority and was implemented on the grounds that the municipalities are different, on the grounds that many parties have to work together to achieve a good interaction in health care, and on the grounds that there is a difference between small and large municipalities. I'll venture the claim that there's a bold race you spend on here, in the light of the experiences I have with both successful and less successful major social reforms. I believe that I will also make it clear that it is a reform for the large municipalities. It is not a reform of the municipality structure in Norway, with which the majority of the population is not willing to do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1476	It's a big day in Stortinget today when the framework for the cooperation reform comes into place. I have great faith that the system and quality that are now used to provide services throughout the healthcare sector will lead to a better and more custom-made approach for patients and users. One area I am particularly concerned with in this context is the development of education in the sector, and how we can provide for increased research and development in care. The government has notified the Storting about welfare education, and that's good. Today’s education is separately good education, but the interaction perspective in the health, care and welfare sectors is far too low. At times, instead of interaction, there have been unlucky conflicts of competence andprofession in the sector. We have less of that today, but there is no doubt that there is a need for greater emphasis on interaction and respect for each other’s competences – complementary competences, which provide a comprehensive range of services for users and patients. Research in the care sector has been too short in Norway. I am therefore pleased that this has a great deal of attention now. It is an area that has had little priority in the care itself and in the university and higher education sectors. During the previous ageing period, we experienced that the nursing training was not approved by NOKUT due to a lack of initial competence in the education. Now it got its solution quite quickly, but is a clear signal to us in the Storting on what priority research in the care sector has. If we are to develop the care sector so that the quality of the service becomes what we want, we must make even better provision for that type of research. Too much knowledge of care is a taus knowledge. It can't be like that. We have carried out major reforms in the past, including: in the field of mental health protection, where I believe many errors could have been avoided if practical research and evaluation had been a more systematic part of the implementation of the reform, as is now foreseen in the Cooperation Reform. Today, we are much better equipped to carry out research projects in the care sector than before. The three-year higher education will be research-based, and we have established many master-level educations. In addition, we have established national care research centres around the country. These centres are well anchored in higher education institutions and municipalities through participation in different research projects. But I think the activity at the centres should have been bigger. We need much more knowledge than we have today, to meet the challenges we face in the care sector, and to motivate health in everything we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1487	In this case of new municipal health law – where municipalities are given even greater responsibility for the health of the population, and the minister himself has gone high in order to put physical activity in focus – I am really surprised that prevention as a physical activity has received so little attention. I also record that several of the hearing bodies respond to this. There is no doubt that we have great challenges in terms of getting more people to be in physical activity. Therefore, it is important to focus on and facilitate physical activity for all age groups, including at school. For the body to work, it's important that we use it actively. Healthy lifestyles at an early age are an important support for future good health. Especially important is when we put activity in the context of several of us being dissatisfied before we reach retirement age. Evolution is speeding. It might get a lot worse. Youths get heavier and slower every decade. Studies show that far fewer students go or cycle to school, they are driving — at all, there is less physical activity among children and young people. According to one survey, teenage boys sit on average 44 hours ahead of the screen per week, and that after school. Then one can easily imagine that physical activity is not what they spend the most time on. Physical activity is one of the most important in preventing musculo-skeletal disorders, diabetes and other lifestyle diseases. Municipalities are responsible for health, prevention and schooling. This possibility of prevention at school is not taken into account by the government. The progress party believes there is a need for much more physical activity in school. This is necessary if the policy objectives of better public health are to be achieved. Increased physical activity can produce long-term results, from a public health perspective. Studies also show that physically active children and adolescents become more active than adults. Students who have the most physical activity at school have the most positive attitudes to physical activity. We also know that physical activity has a positive effect on learning. That's why we think it needs to be more focused than in today's school. The Progress Party believes that the effort in the plan is not in line with what the government wants. In the new year, Stortinget will receive treatment Meldning. St. 22 for 2010–2011 Motivation – Mestring – Possibilities. This will provide opportunities for physical activity at school. The Progress Party will take action in the context of the Communication, and we expect the majority to put forward concrete measures to facilitate more physical activity, by taking a national approach within the School to promote public health, so that the intentions of the Plan are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1506	The interaction reform is a reform that can be described as a reversal of the health supply in Norway. The biggest change is the organisation of health services, where more responsibilities and tasks are transferred from regional health enterprises down to municipalities. I agree with the principle of the Cooperation Reform, but there are a number of issues that remain unanswered. In order to meet the new tasks of the Interaction Reform, municipalities need to build up both facilities and competences, and this will result in considerable expenditure. Even today, many municipalities have to make economic considerations more important than quality and professional standards of services, because of the pressure of local economy. Among other things, the Interaction Reform will oblige municipalities to provide day-to-day care services for patients and users in need of immediate assistance. This will involve considerable costs for municipalities, and it is therefore important – as several have been involved – that this scheme be fully financed. In addition, it must be demonstrated that the municipalities have the necessary professional skills and capacity to handle immediate assistance, daily subsistence, in a good way. Interaction reform also provides for professional neutrality. I'm skeptical of such an approach. In the worst case, due to its neutral form, the legislative proposal may lead to municipalities recruiting personnel without the necessary professional competence in the health and care services. Therefore, it is important to continue a legal requirement on certain key prostheses, as well as on fixed doctors, in municipal health and care services. It is sad to see that the rights attaching of user-controlled personal assistance is once again being trained by the government. This time, a report from the Ministry of Health and Welfare on the calculation of costs for municipalities is used to justify this. The report is made from a selection where all members have an interest in running the cost calculations. In the report, there is a one-sided approach to the costs of municipalities and not to the benefits of society. In Sweden, the country co-finances the costs of BPA in such a way that municipalities have an interest in applying for this scheme as much as possible with assistance needs. There would probably be a good solution in Norway too. Finally, it is appropriate to ask the following questions: How many municipalities are really clear when the reform comes into force in less than half a year? What happens to the municipalities that are following? It is important once again to point out that this is a reform that involves changes in all municipalities throughout the country – small and large. Such a reform must be implemented at the appropriate pace. Many municipalities feel that this is being dragged down their heads now, and it serves neither the municipalities, the patients, nor the reform as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1523	This government has made considerable efforts to support the deployment and use of ICT in healthcare services. That's good, because the health professionals have so far not spoken well enough through the ICT systems available. This is partly due to the fact that the law is not good enough for such communication, partly because the systems are not interrelated. The ICT strategy of the Government shall support better coordination and interaction through the use of ICT in the health sector. Norwegian Health Network shall provide actors in the sector with a tool for safe, shared communication, and the National Health Portal shall be launched in the summer. Other important ICT initiatives are also underway, such as e-receptors, national core records, several computerised health records and greater use of electronic message exchange. Communication and welfare technologies are incredibly important in order to improve everyday life for patients and users. That is why it is good that the government-appointed Hagen Committee has a mandate to look at this, and that the government also gives a big message on eHealth technology and ICT in 2012. So I'm going to come up with the answer that Bent Höie gave me in the line change. I think the representative Höie makes it very easy for himself. The mantra that the money should follow the patient can quickly be the opposite, that the patient must follow the money, that is. where commercial operators find it profitable to establish themselves. It is as is known neither in the Fosen peninsula nor in Finnmark, but in populace struts and in medical areas that yield good returns on each invested krona. This kind of establishment of clusters — or, as it can easily be — has the effect of creating high demand, especially in the neighbourhoods of the population. These environments also have the effect of sucking resources, both financially and personnel. I have lighted with light and light in the Right Strategy to see if there are any formulations on what kind of tools the Party thinks it should have for national health management under such a regime as the Right prescribes, for example. with regard to the geographical distribution of resources, between different patient groups, or with regard to the care of patients who are initially not so business-economically interesting to commercial operators. But I don't find anything. I interpret it as saying that the Right with its new health strategy actually gives up having national governance, for the benefit of private solutions. That's bad news for many of us around the country. I would almost say that in such a light even faceless bureaucrats become the incarnated image of the pure, pure goodness and justice, nothing less.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1536	Today we have a proposal for a representative on measures to strengthen the capacity and quality of the municipal earthworm service. I am the case spokesman for this case, and I regret that I did not feel that I had time to come into this in my first five-minute post. That doesn't mean that things aren't important, on the contrary, there are entirely central challenges that the representative proposal addresses, and it's a matter of which I myself am very busy. I would like to stress that the Stortinget has, and is still, very much in common with the fact that the Earth Mortar Service should be strengthened with regard to both capacity and quality. The Directorate for Health has also commissioned the Ministry of Health and Welfare to make proposals for various measures to strengthen the midwifery services. I would also like to refer to the letter of the Council of State of 4 May to the Committee, where it has done its best for the government in its ongoing efforts to strengthen the midwifery service. The entire Committee has acceded to the decision of the Council of State to review and evaluate the tariff system for midwives and, where appropriate, to the corresponding system for other occupational groups. The fact is that the current tariff system can have a delimitation effect on the professional implementation of midwives and can act against its purpose as an economic incentive. The Committee has also drawn on a cross-political basis that the provision of group guidance and life-style guidance early in pregnancy is important preventive measures that need to be developed. The Committee also points out that cooperation between permanent and midwives in municipalities needs to be strengthened, that it is important that the training capacity of midwives be assessed, and that it is positive that the Council of State ensures that it will closely follow developments. Many midwives today work in small part-time settings, and new midwives work hard to get a job. This is unacceptable. It is therefore positive that this year the Ministry of Health and Health has called on regional health professionals to ensure that, as a general rule, they use fixed settings and limit the use of temporary settings to a minimum. In the municipalities, too, KS has committed itself through the quality agreement to facilitate the reduction of the negative use of part-time settings. In new municipal health and care laws, there is a legislative change on professional neutrality. The opposition believes that this leads to midwives not being added, and will remedy this by legislating the right to midwifery. The government party believes that the Earth Mortar Service should be able to build up with other instruments. The most important thing is that the legislation’s demand for professional defence in the service places leadership on the municipalities and has seen the demand for the service to be staffed by qualified personnel. In addition, a regulation could set requirements for service content, including providing for competence requirements for the different types of service. Finally, about the follow-up service. We are just as concerned that it should work better than today as Sonja Sjøli and Right are. It is the regional health care providers who are responsible, and we need to establish agreements on how the scheme is to be practised. We also have comments on this – and the Minister of Health should follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1551	After listening to the debate, I have noticed, perhaps not surprisingly, that the most striking critics of the issues we are dealing with today have been representatives of the Progress Party. Then I feel tempted and challenged to repeat what I said in the reply to Per Arne Olsen's representative earlier today, namely that the Progress Party has prioritised tax incentives for health in its policy. The policy of the parties is expressed when dealing with the state budget – how to give economic priority. The Progress Party prioritised 20 billion in this year's budget. kr in tax bills, and in the tables in their alternative proposals, it is tax-free for those who have the highest income, i.e. NOK 4000 for those who make between NOK 300000 and NOK 350000, and over DKK 100000 for those who make the million, between SEK 2-3 million. kr. So it's a tax haven for those who earn the most and have the most. In addition, if you include tax breaks, the differences are even larger. With the formidable challenges that Norwegian society will face in the next 20 to 30 years in health, in the community health service, in the care sector, and I would like to deal with the education sector, with significant increases in resources in these sectors, there will be no room for tax relief in the way proposed by the Progress Party. It's definitely, and then you have to make choices. And the Progress Party has made choices, they give great priority to tax havens. At the last national meeting, it was reinforced that it should be said that the Progress Party is a party for a strong reduction in taxes and taxes. Then that's what's real. There is no point in being high and dark, as it is called, when you have sectoral debates, whether in the health sector or in the transport sector. A choice has been made, and a priority has been given to tax havens; a priority has been given to increasing differences in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1560	It's an interesting debate to listen to. I have to say first of all that it is a little strange that the enthusiasm is not greater and the specific options are stronger, because everyone has expressed their agreement on the choice of the road. But it has to be the dosage of the curves that are slightly different. I guess that's the way it is. I'm just going to comment on some of the claims that have come. The first is that this reform will increase the hospitalisation threshold. You might as well view it in the opposite way – that it does not want to do it precisely because building the offer in the municipalities will also lead to increased competence in the municipalities. The representative Bent Höie knows very well that we took two alternative suggestions out for consultation when it came to which diagnostic groups this would apply – it was people over 80 years of age or medical diagnosis. We chose medical diagnosis on the basis of the hearings. It has nothing to do with discriminating the elderly. It's a very serious claim, and we definitely don't want that. With the Interaction Reform, we want to offer a much better offer to older people. A little bit in the extension of this by postponing hospitalizations because of economics: it's totally unheard of whether a doctor should ask an economic boss if they had the money to put people into hospitals. That's not what this is about. This turn of money – that municipalities should participate in and co-finance 20 pst. of the submissions - will go over time. Not all municipalities are ready with an immediate help offer on 1 January. Agreements have been reached with hospitals, and then the services that cannot be performed in the municipalities will be carried out in the hospitals. But the municipalities have a very clear responsibility, both for entering into these agreements and for the patients. When I say we should follow closely, of course, many people comment on it. But in this particular case, it is important to carry out a follow-up evaluation of both the impact this has on the finances of the municipalities and the impact it has on the economy of the hospitals. Then I just have to say that in the case of waiting times, I have agreed that many times we experience that the waiting time has been too long. But don't forget that 70 pst. of all submissions is immediate help. So you don't have to think that you don't get into hospitals in this country, because you actually do. But the waiting times are now falling. That's good, and we're actively working for them to keep going down. Now I didn't get black Højbråten. I'll have to do that afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1573	The councils have the opportunity to ask for the word several times, but in this round the speaking time was out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1576	The representative, Hansen, pointed out that the Advance Party prioritises tax laws. In fact, however, we are talking about the Health Policy of the Workers' Party, the Reform of Cooperation, which is incomplete in many areas. It might have been better if he spent time talking about that matter. The cooperation reform will enter into force as from 1 January next year. In this context, we need well-trained health professionals with different and cross-professional competences. In order to have access to sufficient health professionals who also have good professional training in line with new tasks, there is a great need to use more research-based education in the sector. The Stockholm College Stord/Haugesund cooperation project with municipalities on research and development in primary health services is a model that can be used for the benefit of a national approach. This project focuses on cross-professional cooperation training in health home practice. The goal is to learn from, over and together. Students from nurse training, ergoterapeut and physiotherapist students work in the same place during the same period. A study in the Health Stavanger coverage area, carried out by Iris, shows that there will be a shortage of 1 300 health professionals in 2030, based on a medium population growth. In addition, the region will have 700 nurses in need and about 200 specialist nurses too little. There is no reason to believe that conditions are much better in other municipalities and counties. At the same time, it is reported that many health professionals do not complete the study. The central statistical agency’s projections, dated 28 January 2011, show that even with optimistic estimates, no more health professionals are trained than those who retire. This must be taken seriously, as we know that this working group is of vital importance for citizens to receive a good service. One of the reasons why many people choose to quit is to be reported as low wages in the profession. According to the SSB, in the first quarter of 2011, there are 8,500 job vacancies in the care services of institutions in Norway. So you're asked if you don't have to be willing to see if you can raise your salary in order to get enough skilled workers. The number of applicants for health care, nurse training, shows that there are more than twice the number of applicants placed as of April 2011. This shows that the government needs to show the political will to put a lot more effort on health education and training. It is not good that one in today's Municipality of Norway has to resort to extra guards, temporary employment agencies and temporary workers, partly from abroad, to replace for few hands and the lack of skilled labour. In fact, it is only six months before the reform comes into force. The party of progress is sceptical as to whether patients will get a really good offer from New Year's when there are so many challenges in the matter at this time. The Progress Party has many good suggestions in the matter, which puts patients in the focus. These must be implemented if the cooperation reform is to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1593	The Minister of Health called for more enthusiasm in the Storting for this reform. I would say that the Minister of Health has a great responsibility for the lack of enthusiasm itself, because if the Minister of Health had been able to do what she is asking for healthcare, namely to deal with the opposition to this reform, we might have experienced a cross-political enthusiasm here today. Then the Minister of Health was also concerned with this because one has dropped the 80-year limit and introduced medical diagnosis instead. Well, medical diagnosis affects mainly older people, which not least the community proposition proves when the government distributes these 4.2 billion. kr according to the age criterion. This is not something the opposition has invented on its own. The government set up an expert group with some of our top seniors in the field of old age medicine — from both the specialist health service and the community health service — which concluded to warn against this model. They had exactly the same reason as the opposition, that there is an increased risk of older people being detained for too long in the municipal health service, which is already a problem today. I tried, like the representative Per Arne Olsen, to get the Minister of Health to confirm the time when the rights fixation of user-controlled personal assistance comes. We did not succeed, so I will now challenge those who are behind the proposal – the Minister for Health was very careful that she would follow up the proposal – to estimate whether it would be possible to obtain rights-based personal assistance during 2012. The reason I am concerned about this is that the Storting had a similar request decision in 2004, which was followed up by the Bondevik administration. I asked after the government change questions to Health Minister Brustad about when the government would come back with a rights fixation. In October 2005, the Minister for Health at the time said: «I am satisfied with the main content of the proposal outlined in St.prp. No 1 by the outgoing Government of Bondevik, and intends to follow it up in a consultation note with the first." [[...]] It's been six years since a former health minister said this, and the current health minister actually said the same thing today. I don't want to have six new years before you get a rights fixation of user-controlled personal assistance. So there will be a great advantage to those who are behind this request decision, from the Stockholm pulpit today can guarantee that there will be a legalization of user-driven personal assistance during 2012. If this proposal that is not adopted today cannot be seen as anything but a new training of a case where new years can quickly pass before it is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1608	A key point of the Interaction Reform is to prevent more to repair less. A commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation will be fully in line with such an objective. We are good at emergency medicine in Norway, and fortunately we are saving more and more people from heart attacks, strokes and traffic accidents. Most people get good help to survive, but once the blue lights are turned off, many get too little help to live on. It is well documented both by SINTEF and the Health Inspectorate that the training offer fails in many stages. This means lost opportunities for many people who become unnecessarily dependent on health care and social security benefits. A commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation will help patients to master their everyday life and work. It is a good investment in quality of life for many people, while reducing the need for social security benefits and health services is a good social investment. In the course of last year’s cooperation reform, the right pointed out that the emphasis on rehabilitation and rehabilitation was far too poor, even absent. The right is satisfied with the fact that the legislative proposal makes it visible that rehabilitation and rehabilitation are far more than medical rehabilitation and rehabilitation. It must have a life-cycle perspective. User involvement must be fundamental and individual objectives must guide the content of the process. The content of this service can be regulated by regulation, and the Right expects, inter alia, to occupational rehabilitation is defined there. Rehabilitation is too low a priority in municipalities today. The right considers that the professional neutral legislative proposal of the government is not as strong as the current law, and we fear, like central and heavy hearing bodies, that this could lead to further depriorization of the rehabilitation field. Good rehabilitation requires interdisciplinaryity, and both physiotherapists and ergot therapists are important professionals. User involvement and individualised patient pathways are very important for patients with long-term rehabilitation needs. So we hope that the Council of State will follow this up and pay particular attention to the professional groups that will contribute to good rehabilitation and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1625	Once again, I have to pay a visit to the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen after he, once again, has tried to provide incorrect information in this room that the Progress Party prioritises tax relief rather than health. I've explained this to him before. So when we spend billions more on health than his own government is willing to do, it's about prioritizing. The fact that the Progress Party also has a good tax policy and wants to reduce taxes to create more jobs and a new commitment to business is also a good policy. When the representative Hansen also referred to the national meeting of the Progress Party where he thought we had changed the party's policy to be too strongly reducing taxes and public intervention, I find it necessary to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that there is a lot of strangeness in our national meetings, including journalists, but I have not seen Geir-Ketil Hansen there. And the quotation he refers to has been part of the policy of the Progress Party since Anders Lange introduced it in 1973, so that must possibly be the national meeting he's been at. I would also like to make a visit to the BPA. The civil opposition is assembled to attach rights to user-controlled personal assistance, i.e. BPA. With the challenges facing the welfare state of Norway in the future, BPA is a win-win scheme for all parties. Users are given the opportunity to organize themselves the help they need, with whomever they want, at any time they want. It's user controlled. With BPA, many people with disabilities are given the possibility of a more active and independent life, and for the state this is a relief from all other services and the organisation of care services. When we then experience the resistance that we do from the red-green parties, it must be a little awkward today to sit in this hall and vote against a right-wing celebration and a proposal that is therefore in line with your own national meeting decision. That is exactly why I would like to be allowed to challenge the representative, Geir-Ketil Hansen, who has been out in some media and said that this is now in order. It is not all right when you intend to vote today in this Chamber on the proposal for a right-holding and, on the other hand,'request' again. That is why I want to follow up on what the representative, Höie, said here. When the Council of State does not want to confirm that she will come back to this room by 2012, will I ask the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen and the red-green representatives: do they expect the Council of State to come back by 2012? Or: When do they expect this to be adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1637	I would very much like to return to the guarantee of dignity, as the Council of State did not answer the representative's questions. As I said in my article earlier today, a lot of people today feel that the guarantee is being broken. It is quite serious that there are so many who complain of a violation of the right to necessary health care. It's the rug. I have to re-read some of what was in the draft consultation that we – the Left, the Christian People’s Party and the government parties, read Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and the department – were 100 pst. agree. The right to a valuable service offer is established. That's what it says. ‘In this way, the second paragraph of Section 2-1 of the Local Health Service Act becomes a clear clarification of that resulting from the first paragraph of the provision. This deepening and clarification, in conjunction with the proposals in a new regulation on a worthy care for the elderly, clarify the content of the right to the provision of services for the elderly. [[Guarantee of Dignity]] This will strengthen the legal status of the elderly and thus lead to an enhanced service provision for this user group. As a result, the local authority’s ability to refuse services on grounds relating to the resource situation and the availability of personnel is reduced.’ In connection with the vote, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I have put in the following, just to know – be absolutely sure – that the government parties confirm what is stated in the hearing note: «Member of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party» – I was unfortunately left alone with this – «but the legal status of older people is strengthened by this amendment of the law. The freedom of the municipalities at this point is restricted and the obligations of the municipalities are increasing.» Thus, today’s legal status is changed when the term ‘worthiness’ is highlighted in the Patient Rights Act in accordance with the proposal for the provisions on health care provisions in the Health and Care Services Act § 4-1. A little jus, but quite identical to what we agreed with the government about when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was the Council of State. It is incredibly important for us to know why the government parties were not allowed to go into this. That's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1656	We are facing a very important challenge that can improve the interaction between the municipal primary health service and the state specialist health service. The Soria Moria II declaration states that no local hospital should be closed, and we know that local hospital beds are 60 pst–75 pst. by patients in Norwegian hospitals. Local hospitals must have a clear place in the treatment chain — and I want to underline the treatment chain — where they contribute to good and holistic treatment. And I want to underline quality, which provides security. Quality must be ensured, thereby ensuring that two out of three patients treated in the local hospital of the specialist healthcare system are best cared for here. In any area of society, there is a dynamic development. Demands and offers are changing, and people's perception of security is also changing. Our task as elected representatives is to promote the social development that we want in the various areas. In the setting of the future specialist health service, the members of the government parties in the Committee refer to the definition of an emergency local hospital by the health and care plan. Local hospitals with emergency functions must have at least – and I stress the minimum – hospital emergency services as well as simpler day-to-day surgical procedures. So this is not the golden rule, but the minimum competence of state institutions that can be called hospitals. For the Centre Party, it is essential to ensure the dynamic qualitative development of our local hospitals, where the broad range of acute preparedness in internal medicine, surgery, such as the appendix and fractures, anaesthesia, X-ray diagnostics, e.g. MR and CT, and laboratory services are included. This content is also very central to the training of professionals in local hospitals through turns and medical assistants. Local hospitals are an important educational institution. In the West Viken HF, there are four hospitals. Ringerich Hospital and Kongsberg Hospital are important local hospitals, with functions that I have referred to today. State councils should be aware that there is a single Buskerud bench that has expressed itself in such a way that Kongsberg and Ringerijk are qualitatively safe local hospitals with today's broad competence in the future. It was very central when the hospitals were transferred from the county municipality to the state that the state as owner would follow up the popular opinion represented here on the Stortinget. I would also like to point out that it should be possible to ensure that this is done, that a change in the management model of hospitals is made so that every hospital is managed locally. It is not possible to maintain hospitals in a good and qualitative manner without a local management. This is the case in all such important institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1669	In this debate, a lot of good words have been said, and there is no doubt that there are also good intentions behind the good words. When we dealt with the Nav reform in this Chamber for a while back, there were also many fine words, and there was no doubt that in connection with that reform there were also good intentions behind it. But yet there is no, or very few, who believe that the Nav reform is a successful reform. This means, of course, that there is more to it than fine words and good intentions for a reform to succeed. When it comes to the Interaction Reform, it means that municipalities will have new tasks and a greater responsibility. Then, of course, an important question about the 430 municipalities that we have in Norway today is ready to take on these new tasks and this new responsibility. The representative Sonja Mandt said the following: «The communities are more than ready». I do not know what the municipality representative Sonja Mandt has been in contact with. It is possible that Oslo is ready, that Bergen is ready, that the large municipalities are ready, but the feedback I have received when I've been around the municipality of Norway is that they are not ready. We have today, as I said, 430 municipalities, where Oslo is the largest with almost 600,000 inhabitants, and Utsira the smallest with 218 inhabitants. It is difficult to see that Utsira with 218 inhabitants and e.g. The model with approx. 350 inhabitants should be able to take on many new, big tasks. The feedback I received when I was in the municipality of Norway is uncertain and frustrating. A few weeks ago I was in More and Romesdal. There was a municipal politician who said the following: the cooperation reform is going to be so chaotic that in comparison, the Nav reform is going to appear as a sunshine story. Hopefully he took a little bit into it, hopefully it won't be as bad as he made it, but I'm afraid that it can go quite crazy. I see the Reform of Cooperation, above all, as a reform that exists to create the impression that something positive is happening, and I also see the Reform of Cooperation as a reform that will help to shift focus away from the 280 000 individual companies that are currently in a state of health. Perhaps a greater focus should be on reducing queues and, to a lesser extent, on new reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1680	The large lines are widely discussed, but the reform is to be launched in the municipalities. Norway's smallest regional council is located in Setesdal, and the municipalities of Evje and Hornnes, Bygland, Valle and Bykle cooperate in the intermunicipal region, among others. within the health field. The cooperation reform has been on the agenda in the seat valley region for two years. Several projects are under way, including: in mental health and alcohol. A local medical centre is planned to be located in Evje, and this is being worked on in close cooperation with Sørlanden Hospital. They deserve that. I believe that it will be a good project, but far from all the municipalities, it is equidistant. In order to succeed in the cooperation reform, it is dependent on local authorities having time to build up the necessary skills to undertake new and expanded tasks. The changes resulting from the reform will have a major administrative and economic impact on the municipalities and should therefore have a more gradual introduction, so that municipalities could adapt their organisation and operation to the new tasks. As regards the intention of the Interaction Reform to help people where they live, the reform for the inhabitants of District Norway will mean that some services will be provided geographically far away from where they live. Developing qualitatively good services with this reform will be resource-intensive and time-consuming. It is also difficult to find the good administrative forms of cooperation that allow legal cooperation across local borders. Ensuring sufficient competence to carry out the new tasks also makes great demands on municipalities in relation to both recruitment and building a strong professional environment in cooperation with other municipalities. I therefore regret the urgency of the government to introduce the reform as long as the instruments are so unclear. I am critical of whether the economic incentives, as they are described to date, are sufficient to achieve the intentions of the Cooperation Reform. There are large bureaucratic costs related to interaction, both intermunicipally and in the interaction with the hospital. It is important that there are resources both in the municipalities and in the health business to interact effectively. New ways of organising healthcare, e.g. in the local medical centre also involves investment costs. It does not help with State project support if there is no means to carry out good projects in an operational phase. When a municipality such as Bykles get approx. EUR 800000 in 2012 to meet the Interaction Reform, and parts of this amount will be used to co-finance hospital stays, it goes without saying that there is not much left to invest and build up new municipal services. It's worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1691	I just want to comment on some of the things that have been raised during the debate here. The opposition has criticised the use of regulations. I think it's a little bit clever. We are adopting the laws today, and the regulations are to follow up both what we adopt here, and what we have worked with. We have to take into account to review a large proportion of the law when we make so many changes. We have to change, we have to revise, we have to set new ones, and we have to make the technical changes. I'm sure that a clarification of what has been called here in relation to professional neutrality is very good to have in a regulation. I suppose that should be in everyone's interest. The opposition wants more pilot projects. We don't think that's necessary, because there's been a lot of projects around here. Twelve local medical centers are the evidence. Søbstad, Fosen and Ål – and more good examples mentioned – are locally initiated. They have come after local initiatives, and they meet local needs. The Christian People's Party is calling for the legal right to day care now, immediately, while we want to wait until things are in place. We're making arrangements for the large number of dentures that are expected in the future by building planned dwellings. We implement the Good Day, and we give competence to employees through Demensorgens ABC, where over 9 000 have now participated. In contrast to the reform, the Christian People's Party will now have a law – while the reform will be shattered and followed, and it will be expected with regard to new projects. Sometimes it's not entirely related. Sometimes it's too small and too late, and sometimes it's too fast and too much. To layers for all, no one can do. We build the reform from the municipalities, not as the Progress Party claims we do, from top to bottom. The focus of the Progress Party is that we take the money from the specialist health service. Yes, we re-distribute and treat in the right place. 4.2 B.C.E. kr is what we're talking about -- that's 5 pst. of the basic appropriations for hospitals — and very much of it will be repaid if the municipalities do not succeed. The example of the representative Health referred to from this pulpit is typical in terms of refunds and patients who are ready to print. They had $8,000 to pay in. The comparison that was made with Nav is also not real. We're not setting up any new institutions. The reform is to be introduced gradually, and we do not have a pooling of municipal and state institutions. We believe that it's best for the municipalities that we believe it's best for the patients. And yes: I have been in contact with many municipalities and have visited many municipalities that are absolutely clear. And they're on. I trust what I hear and see, and it's not just Oslo we've seen. Right treatment at the right place at the right time, that's what we're really talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1706	Like the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen, I will also talk about the Progress Party's excellent health policy. It is a little special that the right-wing representative, Hansen, should call on health professionals through the state budget procedure when one at the same time knows that Geir-Ketil Hansen and all his party colleagues in SV – and otherwise in the government – vote against every time we come up with new proposals. Geir-Ketil Hansen will have ample opportunity early Friday to vote for increased rights to healthcare professionals. I'm just saying that we don't see the same high digitization from SV then. That's how the Progress Party spends money on tax havens, we're very proud of that. But at the same time, we have paid billions more to health professionals in the original State budget for 2011. But that is not enough, because health professionals also have major organisational challenges that we have faced before. There are increasing numbers of bureaucrats — 17 000 bureaucrats in healthcare establishments, 14,000 patients beds, and 8 500 ligaments. In health services, there are twice as high a red tape factor as a medical factor. Then Geir-Ketil Hansen can be very happy with the health services, but something is wrong. When one then knows that more of these bureaucrats — more than 10,000 — also work with things quite different from patient treatment, that only underscores the point. Here are the enormous organisational challenges that SV and the government party are jumping smoothly over, and one that continues to mar the same thing they've been doing all along, that there's control of health services. But why do we see the state of emergency at the OYS? Why do we see a lay in Bergen's anaesthetic warning? Why do we see the fight for local hospitals? Why do we look up any information about the mistreatment of patients, if there was actually control out there? Yes, Geir-Ketil Hansen knows better than what he says on the speech seat here about the state of the Norwegian health care system. There is no reason to praise more than the government party has already done. So it's fun to right Per Olaf Lundtigen talking about the definition of local hospitals. He's based on a completely different definition from what the Center Party is going to vote for today, because he's on the Progress Party and the Medical Association's definition of the contents of the local hospitals. Per Olaf Lundtegen was not in the room when we proposed to stop the conversion processes, despite the fact that he was wanted from the pulpit. The battle was then – it remains today, on the definition of minimum requirements for a local hospital. Then Per Olaf Lundtigen and the Center Party can pretend to be some members of the Progress Party and the Lege Association in the definition, but when one comes to voting later today, they show what they actually stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1717	This is an important day for people in our country. If you are ill, you should get the right treatment in the right place at the right time. That is what the Cooperation Reform is all about. We know that many patients experience that the services are not interacting well enough. It applies both within hospitals and between hospitals and community health services. In fact, some patients who are currently receiving treatment or are ready to print from hospitals can receive equal treatment or better treatment and care in their own municipality. Then they should get it. In the last year, we have spent a lot of time treating illness. That's good. But we need to get better at preventing this. According to WHO, 80 pst. Of heart attack, 90 pst. diabetes and 30 pst. by cases of cancer prevented or exposed with changes in diet, physical activity and smoking habits. Preventing disease at its front instead of repairing it afterwards shall be rewarded. That is why we need to focus more on avoiding people getting sick, and making sure that working together pays off for municipalities and hospitals. For many years I have worked for something called a health centre for the elderly in Ski. This has resulted in a senior contact, which I personally want to expand even more. The elderly will be offered home visits for the year of their 75th birthday, with a view, inter alia, to: practical arrangements — perhaps small things that make everyday life easier for them. In addition, we might be able to discover solitude. For we know that very many older people are very much alone. It's good prevention to get these out of the house and in with others. Other things can be e.g. cooking courses for older men, because we know that proper dieting is unlikely to be good for prevention. That is what this is all about: we must prevent people from becoming ill with diseases that can actually be prevented. In fact, it is now an incentive for municipalities to prevent, and there is one of the most important things about the decision today. In order to achieve this reform, we need a local medical centre. Currently there are only twelve in the country, but seven are under planning. Local authorities are also required to cooperate to obtain the interaction. In Follo, I think we need to develop a common local medical centre. Ski hospitals are a natural location of such a center. There's room, and from now on we've been in outpatient, outpatient and palliative departments there, so the possibilities of getting a very good local medical center are really there. Finally, I am also pleased with the good solution that we have found for Lärdal Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1732	It has been interesting to follow today's debate. Much has been said, but let me first express my concern about the decision by the majority of the population is about to be implemented. We have a health care system that, at my discretion today, is out of control, and is characterized by chaos. Later days of media postings, not only in the last days, but in fact in the last year, have shown one case after another that has indicated what crisis is in the health care system. Much of that crisis is actually due to money issues. Then the government's answer is that one should start a big reform once again, starting at the wrong end by shutting down even more money, which will increase chaos and uncertainty even more. Who's gonna be the big losers? Well, it's definitely the patients. This will lead to major challenges and problems. Take, for example: My own county, Nord-Trøndelag. After all, it is tempting to ask the Council of State and the majority in this Chamber how it has been thought that the municipality of Namskogan, with 920 inhabitants, should be able to build up a full and good health offer from 1 January 2012 and how it has been thought that the municipalities, with their 1 400 inhabitants, will be able to do the same, when one has not been able to start from below, namely by building up the competences and resources of the municipalities. It just proves that you started off at the wrong end, and that the problems will escalate. How has development been since this government took over? Yes, we've got 70,000 more in line. That is what the Minister of Health can do with: 70 000 people who do not get the treatment they should have, quickly enough. We have also recently recorded that people who are sick, who have been sampled, and the tests have been sent out to the hospitals, have to remind themselves to get answers to them, because they have lost them in the hospitals, have no control over where they are, because you don't have the capacity. That capacity wants the sitting government to build up even more, so you're going to have even greater chaos. I just record that you have to be resource strong and healthy if you're going to be sick in the red-green health care. In conclusion, I would like to give a few words to the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen. He's talking about the Progress Party choosing tax credits. No, the Progress Party has chosen a better health policy. I record that the red-green and SV have opted for a discriminatory health policy, where the high-wage director will have the opportunity to purchase private health services, while the usual worker will remain in the red-green health policy queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1747	First, I will try to answer the question from Bent Höie about the implementation of the rights attaching of BPA for users with special needs. The proposal states that the government should come back quickly to the Storting with a proposal. With “rapid” we want it as soon as possible, but at least during the spring half of 2012. If we then imagine normal time, to use that expression, from Stortinget's taking the decision until the right is implemented, then I'm probably very close by answering yes to the question from Bent Höie, who uses the term 'in the course of 2012'. I think I'll put it this way. Then I have to say that it's a black paint, I'll almost say without equal, from the Progress Party. If we're going to be able to do this in a good way, it's important that we also have the ability to inspire from here. In addition, in the context of public health, black paint is simply a half-hazard. One has to bring it too. When Nesvik shows up here, what I'm about to call an aria of black paint, I think it goes over all bounds. But what I'm actually most indignant about is this mistrust of the local government sector, because it's actually a lot of stuff. When one sees how competent the municipalities are, all the great projects around and hears what's being said in here, it's in stark contrast to each other. It stands in stark contrast to each other – as much good work as happens out there. I also think I hear a distrust related to the doctor who is now going to start taking completely different considerations and using his or her subject in relation to when he or she is going to be admitted to the hospital. I think you can take it easy. - Not you, President, but the ones I'm actually talking about. - So that's it. Then I would also like to add that I have not yet heard a single municipality complaining that a person feels overwhelmed by the state in connection with this reform. A chatter that it's from top to bottom, from top to bottom. It's become a mantra today. But it has been said from several of us that there are many good projects around the country that have inspired this Cooperation Reform, and that is actually the case. What the municipalities are now waiting for is to clarify what kind of instruments the state is putting up with, etc., and how the law is going to be, and we are adopting that today. So now we're on. And if we then have regulatory homes, today the policy has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1759	I will answer the representative Højbräten to the question of the guarantee of dignity. As is well known, the right to a valuable service offer is also included in the Patient Rights Act. The obligation for municipalities to provide this has been included in the new municipal health and care law. The regulation is very detailed, which is well known – also for the Højbråten – and specifies the rights of older people. It also gives priority to older people’s efforts. I'm not going through all the details that are in the regulation, because it's well known. However, there is a simpler complaint procedure for the elderly if they do not receive the offer they should have, and there should be no doubt that the government is working hard to create a better service offer for the elderly. So to the great concern for the municipalities of the country: then I just have to say that in April, the Municipal Report had a survey in Norwegian municipalities. It turned out that eight out of ten rapporteurs were in favour of the reform, and a majority also supported that municipalities should have a greater responsibility for the health of their citizens. I have to say that when I listen to the Progress Party, I am glad that the Progress Party is not responsible for health policy in Norway, because then we had no ability to change and renew the health service, whether it be the hospitals and their tasks – what they can do – or other things. Norway is one of the countries that spends the most money on health. We have most doctors per capita. Had e.g. The representative Eriksson heard after, and he had got a lot of things that he was sitting on in his post. People are waiting for less time now. I agree that many are in line, but the question is not how many are in line. That's how long they're in line, which is the serious thing. If people wait too long, it's clear that it goes beyond quality of life. It can go out of health, and it can go out of the way to work. Therefore, it is important to reduce the waiting time. So that's what I'm saying, not an excuse for the cases of mistreatment that we've seen lately. On the contrary, they are a reminder of how important it has been — which I have been very concerned about — to take a boost for patient safety and quality in healthcare. Then I just want to say to Sonja Sjøli that I am very concerned that we should have a safe and sound midwife service. In particular, shorter hospital lay time is important in this context. We'll follow that up, both with guidelines and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1774	I thank the Council of State for commenting on my question. But that's what she did, she didn't answer it. My question was why the government in the proposition and the government parties in the vote could not include a wording we agreed on in the negotiations on the guarantee of dignity, namely that the legal status of the elderly is strengthened. I have to do something unusual, and that is to reveal what has happened in the negotiations. This matter I see so serious that I want to do it. We negotiated the guarantee of dignity, and the government wanted to include in the agreement the wording they used in the proposition, namely that the guarantee of dignity can already be interpreted into the applicable law. It was rejected in the negotiations. Nevertheless, it is included in the consultation draft, and it is included in the legislative proposal — rather than in the wording agreed upon. This is not something we raise just because we want to argue. We are concerned that the guarantee of dignity should, in fact, be a break in order to strengthen the rights of the elderly in this country, as promised by the Norwegian Labour Party to the voters in 2009 by a written letter from the Prime Minister to all its pensioners. Instead, we feel that the government is going back and forth to a wording that was rejected in the negotiations. I say this to the horror and warning of anyone who will negotiate with this government in the future. That's how we've been treated!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1785	Then the next speaker is Kjersti Toppe, who is one of five case rapporteurs. Since we are dealing with five matters at the same time, it is according to Storting's Rules of Procedure that the rapporteurs and the Council of State do not have the limitation that allows one to have the word no more than twice plus once for a short time. I then remind you that the representative Toppe is the case rapporteur for issues related to measures to strengthen the capacity and quality of the municipal midwife service. Great, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1794	In the debate, several have pointed out that the cooperation reform is being implemented urgently. I want to make it clear that it is not correct. What we're planning, there's a lot of good experience with already. For many years we have actually had a pilot project. It is precisely these examples that provide the basis for the changes to be made in the context of the Cooperation Reform. I don't think the comparison with the fixed reform is real either. This was a profession, not an entire health service. The interaction reform is gradually being introduced, as it is today. For example, there is a requirement for immediate help to be provided within a three-year period, i.e.: That we're going to have experience in the process. Municipal co-financing is also significantly limited in relation to what was originally in the plan and only later should it be extended to other medical areas. The opposition claims that municipal co-financing of medical admission is age discrimination. I want to distance myself from one of those statements. I'll sort of fix it back to that it's playing on people's fears not to get the best possible treatment when one needs it. What is the worst thing that can happen if the import policy is not changed? What is the worst that can happen to the municipality? Well, it's that the input frequency is going to be the same. This means that the municipality does not save money. But it's not going to be an extra economic tax. The point is exactly what the representative Are Health raised in a previous post: it's not the advisers who go to the hospital. It is the legacy that is still to be done, and then the professional assessment to be taken into account. Today, it's not like I guess there's a municipal offer to go into. That's what we're going to create, and there should be known problem settings, familiar treatment routines, and not just fast-paced states. We have particularly good experience with municipal provision also today, where patients can come after admission, for example. at Søbstad Hospital in Trondheim, which has amazing results and where we see faster rehabilitation. It has yet to be seen that fewer deaths occur when patients receive such an offer after admission. At Stjørdal's local medical centre, where we were visiting, they told me that patients tried to rob space on the center after they had been hospitalized, because it had such a good reputation. Finally, it is not the case that elderly patients benefit from hospitalisation. It's a big mistake. Older patients have great benefit from being treated as closely as possible in the vicinity of where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1813	The next speaker is the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen, who, despite having spoken twice earlier in the debate, has three minutes of speaking time because he is the rapporteur for case No. 3, on the Public Health Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1816	I was asked a direct question earlier in the debate by Per Arne Olsen on BPA, about when we assumed that this came back to Stortinget. As far as BPA is concerned, it is very clear in what is being adopted today that we need to get back quickly to the Stortinget with the BPA bill. Then we assume that it happens quickly, and 2012 is natural to expect it back, to the municipal proposition if necessary. Then I have received some comments from the Progress Party in relation to my claim that the Progress Party prioritises tax relief in front of health. The comments back have been as expected: yes, thank you, both. But with priority it doesn't work; some things have to come first. My claim is, if you read the draft budget from the Progress Party, that they have put tax relief first. So in the end, as the rapporteur-in-Office, there was one area I did not mention in my post – just a few words about it. That's the relationship with the Sami population. It was mentioned in connection with the law, and there have also been discussions between the Sameting and the Ministry of Health and Health in advance of these wordings. The Health and Care Committee then also stressed in the proposal for a Law on Public Health that Norway has a specific obligation to provide health services tailored to the needs of the Sami population – it is not a unanimous committee, the Progress Party is not included in that comitology – and that municipalities with the Sami population also in their overviews of the health status and impact factors – which all municipalities receive – will ‘assess whether there are specific challenges both in terms of improving health and influencing factors for the Sami population’. It also appeared during the consultation that research is currently not able to identify differences in the health status between Norwegian and Sami populations. It seems that the undersigned was particularly interesting, and I assume that the department will and encourages the ministry to go further in that area. Because it is important for us to develop policies in relation to the Sami population, whether or not there are differences, whether or not there are extra measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1827	The representative, Laila Davøy, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and, in this regard, is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1830	I'll end up being a little happy today, I. It's going on in the BPA system, for which we've been fighting for many years. The FFO submitted a newsletter just a few days ago, where they were also very happy because the government had now been required, as they said, to draw up a proposal to legislate on the right to choose the BPA. I would like to say that it is the responsibility of the Council of State and the Government now to implement what the Stortinget once decided a long time ago, in 2005, and which has now been confirmed in Stortinget. I am very pleased with the very clear statements both from the Workers' Party and SV here that the BPA scheme is coming, and I also understood the Council of State this way, although the time aspect has not been adopted. I want to ask the Council of State: we should have it in place in 2012, but I notice that it will at least come in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1839	I would also like to thank you for a good debate, but there are a few things I want to comment on. The representative, Tore Hagebakken, put a lot of emphasis on the fact that he believes that the Progress Party has distrust of the municipalities and that we are black-painting the situation. But what the Progress Party has done in this debate is actually to point out the hard facts, that hospitals have increased by 20,000 every year during this government, to a total of almost 280 000. We've pointed out several of the shortcomings and challenges we're facing, as we want to solve them. We have pointed out that there has been a great deal of uncertainty in the population around the local hospitals. This isn't black-painting the situation. This is to establish the facts, and it is then important that we have to be able to address the challenges we still face in Health Norway, in order to solve them. As I said earlier today, we see that the medicine that has been given for many years is not working. We're recording that the medicine today's government has been using is not working. Then it's strange that as the hospital queues increase, we don't use all the good cancers, including the private ones. It is also strange that responsibility is often shifted to the municipalities. I have great faith that the municipalities want the best for their inhabitants. It is also about being able to give local politicians the opportunity and not least the economy to do so. Then I also have to say that it is a paradox when you can hear in the news that in Poland it lasts at 8 miles to the nearest hospital, while in Norway it has to be 15. It's a paradox. In conclusion, the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen was once again concerned with the policies and tax laws of the Progress Party. He also taxed a good health policy, as if the two areas were the only ones in the state budget. It would have been tempting to ask a question to the Socialist Left, whether all tax laws mean less health. Because I also record that the government, as Geir-Ketil Hansen's party is part of, happily gives tax credits to its supporters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1852	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 5. [[See pages 4745, 4777 and 4782]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1868	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4783]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1884	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4784]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1900	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1909	The matter we are dealing with today concerns a proposal from the Progress Party to establish a heart bridge for Denmark for ablation spaces, and that the work on building up the capacity of the Feiring Clinic is intensified. Proposalers justify their proposals with long waiting periods for the treatment of patients with cardiac fibrillation. The proposers claim that it will take a long time to build up the offer in Norway and that on the basis of this, a heart bridge has to be established for Denmark. Heart fibrillation reduces the quality of life for those who are afflicted with it and can lead to a stroke. Therefore, it is important that we have good responses to this growing patient group. The Health Directorate estimates that 4 pst. heart fibrillation should be the main measure of ablation treatment. The Minister for Health has for a long time focused on this issue and has, in letters to regional health companies in June 2010, instructed them to extend the offer to this patient group. The Health Directorate has recommended a six-month period for those patients who have been assessed for need of treatment. That is a recommendation and, of course, an individual assessment must be made which may result in the patient being treated more quickly for reasons of safety. The Ministry has assessed that although regional health businesses have developed plans to increase capacity, there will be too little capacity in the public health sector in an interim period. The Minister of Health has therefore, by letter to the regional health establishments, in the autumn of 2010, made it clear that, if health businesses do not have the capacity to offer treatment in their own healthcare undertakings, they shall ensure that the patient is offered treatment through agreements with other service providers, in order to comply with the requirement of safety. The Minister for Health has also made it clear that all patients in need of ablation should be assessed in relation to the prioritisation and the requirement for health care. Health enterprises have been required to report on this work in the mission document and the reports will be reviewed and followed up in the reporting meetings with regional health enterprises now in June. We know that several healthcare companies have increased their capacity for ablation treatment. Health South-East has signed an agreement with the Feiring Clinic, and we know that other health regions consider doing the same. It is serious when patients with severe distress and risk have to wait beyond the recommended deadline. For this reason, I am pleased that the Minister of Health, in his letter to the Committee, stresses that if health businesses do not provide a satisfactory offer to patients in need of ablation treatment, the Minister will follow it up separately with the individual enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1935	Long waiting times are associated with the treatment of patients with cardiac fibrillation in Norway. In fact, 70,000 Northmen have heart fibrillation. This is said to be the main cause of acute hospitalisations, and it could be responsible for as much as 3,000 strokes a year. It is estimated that the number will grow by approx. 10000 annually. Today, patients with cardiac fibrillation experience up to 2-3 years waiting time for so-called ablation treatment in all health regions, with some regional differences. Although it is very important to build sufficient capacity in Norway related to this patient group, this has taken a very long time, and it will still take some time. On this occasion, the celebration clinic must be praised for their nitite struggle to establish and develop an ablation environment in Norway, which we now see the fruits of. Today's Minister of Health should also be commended for trying to clear up the promises of former Minister of Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in this way. However, because it takes time to build up skills and capacity in Norway, the health minister and the red-greens today have a unique opportunity. They have the choice of saying yes to a heart bridge and letting sick people pay the price for a late build-up in Norway, leaving them waiting in line for years, often with plagues and not least with periods of illness. It is precisely for this reason that a heart bridge should be established in Denmark to ensure that patients suffering from heart fibrillation who can be operated – i.e. where the ablation treatment has an effect – receive treatment as soon as possible and return to normal functioning. There is therefore an affordable six-month waiting guarantee for this patient group, but there is great reason to be concerned about compliance with this deadline, in view of the lack of capacity and delays in health care. To this end, it should be pointed out that from a medical team it is suggested that the rate of increase is expected; the extent may even double over the next 10 years in terms of heart fibrillation problems. A number of waiting list breaches have been detected and it has been emphatically established that regional health businesses do not fulfil their care-care responsibilities. On that occasion, I will also be allowed to point out that I have asked the Council of State twice – without having received an adequate answer – whether the deadline is exceeded when the six-month limit is exceeded, or when the health company sees that they will not make it within the six-month period. This question is, as I see it, also of a moral nature. When one sees that the deadlines are very likely to be broken, or broken, and the treatment is far ahead of time before we find that individual patients need a different offer, and when we know what this can mean by health consequences for the individual, it is at the time that one knows that one will not be able to make the deadline, that it is natural to make a different offer. Are we going to take a responsibility now and make an offer that will give patients a quick offer, since we already know that the deadline cannot be met for all those who have already been in line? HeartCenter Varde in Denmark had a significant number of Norwegian patients in 2010. The funding related to these patients has mainly been through health insurance and private payment by patients. In fact, there's only one or two of the hundreds who's let themselves operate there, who's been covered by the cost of the public. And it's embarrassing. This helps to substantiate a class distinction in the Norwegian health service that the Progress Party does not want. We therefore believe that it is necessary to consider a reimbursement scheme for those patients who have already paid out of their own pocket or with health insurance in order to have the operation within the time limit they should have had. I myself was present at such an operation in Denmark not long ago. It was impressive to see. I myself have participated in up to several heart operations, but on most of them I have been the patient myself. This time I was allowed to watch and get more with me, and as I said, I was deeply impressed. I am not going to go any deeper into this, except to promote the proposals referred to in the case, and consider them to be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1965	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1968	At least there is agreement that the capacity for ablation treatment in Norway is too low and that this offer needs to be built up. And as the Health Minister said from this pulpit in ours, it takes time to build this offer, and it has to be invested in expensive medical devices, while it takes time – up to three years, I think she said – to train heart specialists in the ablation method. The Health Minister has been very clear that the patient should not wait more than six months, but there are very many who do. The four-way clinic has more capacity than they can use today. They say they can double their capacity in a few months, i.e. to over 400, without using Norwegian doctors, because they have contracts with foreign heart specialists. And they also have the best medical device to recover in this area. Then it is completely incomprehensible to me that the capacity at the Fairingklinik is not fully used. In response to me in Stortinget earlier this year, the Council of State also said that all regional health companies are now building up their capacity. She also said that the Feiring Clinic is a very good supplement that Health South-East now uses because they have too low capacity, which it takes time to build up, and that the other regional health companies would also consider this. The feiring clinic has helped to develop the Norwegian cardiac health service for over 20 years, and they did so over 20 years ago because there was no good offer in the public sector. It is a paradox for me that patients with temporary interruptions in ablation treatment are now being sent to a commercial hospital in Denmark, rather than using the capacity at the patient-owned feiring clinic. I just don't understand. The right considers that the offer at the Feiringklinik should not only be a supplement when it is public, but that it should be taken into account and be part of the overall offer of heart therapy in Norway, for example. ablation. It has the Minister of Health the opportunity to do something about it. I have to ask, why should Health South-East in the Rikshospital expand the capacity for ablation treatment and at the same time squander out the Feiring Clinic? Because that's what's going to happen when they've built it out – and I'm going to think the Rikshospital has enough of the challenges to attend to right now. In any case, the employees and former director say that the offer as it is today, and the constraints it has set up, will go beyond patient treatment. But at the same time they're going to build up an offer that actually exists somewhere else in the region. So I have a specific question to the Council of State: Should the Rikshospital continue to expand the capacity for ablation treatment at the expense of the Feiring Clinic? Or will the Council of State make sure that the offer at the Feiringklinik will be part of the total health supply and not just as a supplement, as I said, when it suits the state? If this answer is not positive, the government parties, and in particular the Labour Party, election to the Celebrating Clinic and all promises of gold and green forests – there is no way in which they will take advantage of the Celebrating Clinic, and how well that offer will be – as Ibsen said, only means of speaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e1983	It is good that we still get new treatments. I am concerned that Norway should be far more advanced in using new knowledge to provide the best medical care possible to our people in the country. When a new type of treatment is introduced, it is often difficult to have enough capacity. This shall not prevent patients in need of this treatment from securing offers in line with patient rights and professional recommendations. That's about. 65,000 people with heart fibrillation in Norway. Ablation treatment will assist in approximately 4 pst. of these. Based on this, the Health Directorate recommended time limits for patients to receive ablation treatment – six months from the date of the treatment indication. There is therefore a clear need to increase capacity in Norway significantly. I have followed this up by instructing regional health companies to increase their capacity by letter of 29 June 2010. Health enterprises are well in the process of building up this capacity, but of course it takes time. The increase in capacity depends on major investments in equipment, and not least training of personnel, on which the representative Sjøli was also involved. In any case, the patient must be secured during the transitional period until sufficient capacity is in place. I have made it clear to regional health companies that they will in any case ensure that patients who need such treatment are offered this. It may take place in own-health undertakings or through contracts with other service providers in Norway or abroad, in order to meet the health requirements. I refer here to the letter of 27 October last year. Let me be quite clear that regional health companies are to ensure that the patient is offered ablation treatment when this is considered necessary health care. Such treatment shall be offered within a period of time considered appropriate on the basis of an individual health professional assessment and in line with the recommendations of the Health Directorate. All patients in need of ablation shall be assessed in accordance with the priority and safety requirements. This means that regional health businesses need to review their waiting lists. In this year's mission document, I asked for a report by the first tertiary in 2011. This reporting meeting will be held today, 14 June. The ablation treatment status shall be reviewed here. Then to the proposal on a heart bridge to Denmark. The size has delegated the responsibility for providing specialist health services to regional health establishments. It is my responsibility that this is followed up. Regional healthcare businesses shall prioritise increased treatment capacity for this patient group. At the same time, I assume that they continuously assess the need to purchase additional capacity from other service providers. The termination agreement between HELFO Patient Dissemination and Heart Center Varde in Denmark provides good safety for Norwegian patients in the event of a future deadline breach. I am aware that the agreement is not used very well. Both HELFO and healthcare companies are working to make the offer better known to patients and professionals. In my opinion, there is no need for further action in the form of a heart bridge to Denmark or other countries. The proposers want my contribution to increase the capacity of the Celebration Clinic. As I explained in Stortinget’s Question Time on 6 April of this year, Health South-East has concluded an agreement with the Celering Clinic on Ablation Treatment. The agreement is limited to 200 applications in 2011. These treatments, according to Health South-East, will contribute to the adequacy of the offer in the scope of the enterprise. I take the view that the other regional health establishments are making a similar assessment of the need for ablation treatment and provide sufficient capacity. As mentioned above, we are going through the status of regional health businesses today. If it were to be demonstrated that regional health establishments do not provide a satisfactory offer to patients in need of ablation treatment, this would be followed up separately with the undertaking in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2004	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2007	The end of the state council's posts was not particularly uplifting, I think. Unfortunately, it may not have been surprising either. It's true, as the Council of State says, it's "only" for 4 pst. of those suffering from atrial fibrillation, that ablation is an appropriate form of treatment. When the Council of State itself says that there are 65,000, and we know that it might double over the next ten years, it still becomes in the ten years' time a place between 2,500 and 5,000 people a year. These are patients of flesh and blood. When we also know that the HeartCenter Varde and the Celebrating Clinic are not used, my question has to be: why do health companies and the Council not want to use the capacity available both at the Celebrating Clinic and the HeartCenter Varde, which could receive two patients from HELFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2014	I am a little surprised that the representative Olsen was not satisfied with the end of my post, because it was quite uplifting on the contrary. Today, together with regional health businesses, we are going through the report on how many they can deal with, how many they have been treated and how many they are in line. It should be quite clear that I am serious about implementing the waiting guarantee recommended by the Health Directorate, no longer than six months, and shorter if an individual assessment has been given that this should be the case. It is then possible to extend the capacity, for example: at the celebration clinic, if possible. However, I perceive that the Feiring Clinic is being used to a greater extent than the offer in Denmark is being used. It is not an end in itself to establish a heart bridge for Denmark, but it is an objective in itself that all those who may benefit from ablation treatment should receive it within the time limit they are entitled to. So I just want to answer another thing. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2026	There's something that's not right here. Now the Council of State says that Health South-East has concluded an agreement on 200 patients at the Celebrating Clinic, saying that that is sufficient. But a few months ago, the council said they had to expand four new operating rooms at the Rikshospitale to get away. So here's something that's not right. I ask the Council of State once again: will they continue to expand the capacity of the Rikshospital, at the expense of the Feiring Clinic, or will the Council of State ensure that the offer at the Feiring Clinic will be part of the plan for the overall offer of heart treatment in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2031	I haven't said that it's necessarily enough, what is. I don't know until I get back to the office today and get to hear what the reports from the various health companies are like, and how they aim for their treatment. For me, it is important that those patients who need ablation treatment get it within the time limit set for them. In fact, I believe that it is quite essential that regional health companies build up this capacity. We need 1 400 treatments per day per year. Many people may have to take these treatments and repeat them, so it's going to be a big need. I believe that with regard to the Feiring Clinic and the agreement that Health South-East has considered that they need to join the Celebrating Clinic, it must also be up to them to assess whether that agreement should be extended. It should be emphasised that the Feiring Clinic has done a great job with regard to heart therapy for many, many years. They're still doing it, and they're going to do it still.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2042	It was an unused line, and since the Council of State did not have the right to give the whole answer to me, I thought I had to press the button and give her that opportunity. At the same time, it also gives me an opportunity to stress that I am, of course, satisfied with the part of the Council of State posts where she says that she takes this seriously and is on the matter. What I'm not satisfied with is that she doesn't see the need to exploit the capacity that's at Feiraring, further, and the capacity that's already at HeartCenter Varde, which is approved by the HELFO Institute, when we know that there are so many patients standing and waiting. In addition to what the council had at its heart in the previous case, I could imagine getting an answer to one thing, and that's the following question: The six-month guarantee, when does it occur? Does it occur when you pass six months, or does it occur when the health business sees that they will not make it within six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2051	In a letter dated 27 October last year, we clarified that all healthcare companies had to review their waiting lists, make new assessments on patients and provide a treatment guarantee. At the end of the date, the time limit shall be set. I have also been very concerned that the hospitals must be good at notifying patients if they are unable to do so within the time limit for treatment, and provide guidance on an alternative offer. Then it may be Feiraring or Varde in Denmark, only they will be treated within the time limit set. I now feel that the Progress Party will send someone to Denmark. Right will use Fairing. For me, the most important thing is that patients receive the treatment they need, and that we have sufficient capacity around the country within the time limit patients should have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2058	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 4784]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2076	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2085	Since the Stortinget is going to deal with the revised national budget in its entirety on Friday, I intend to keep today's debate to a minimum. When the Committee deals with the budgets, it's sometimes hectic, and there's a lot of elements to keep track of, so I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation. That thank-you must also be shared with the employees of Stortinget and the party groups. I would like to begin by saying that there is a broad consensus about the proposals that the government has made in the revised national budget for the legislative changes. I should therefore only say a little about three of the issues that there has been the most attention around. The first thing is probably the one that got the most space in the media, and that's been discussed several times in this room. It's about how to publish the tax lists. The government is adding up to a tightening of the practice you've had. The new system adds that everyone can now search the tax registers by logging into my ID port. When you get in, you can only apply for one single name in the tax list. Furthermore, it is stated that the media can obtain an electronic copy of the entire tax list if they sign an agreement that they will not publish all or part of the list and that they cannot otherwise disclose it in whole or in part. This seeks to ensure the essential function of the media as a societally critical actor towards both authorities and societal development. The proposal does not intend to limit journalism by itself, but the way in which information is disseminated. The proposal will also prevent the development of the commercialisation of tax lists that have been seen in recent years. There has been a development that has greatly contributed to an increased pressure on privacy, to which all parties have expressed scepticism. The Government's proposals are supported by a majority of the Committee, while a varying minority have different proposals that will further reinforce current practice. The second issue I would like to make is the depreciation rules for operating funds in industrial plants. This was also one of the main concerns of Norwegian Industry during the consultation of the Committee. Over time, there has been a trend in this area, both because new balancing groups have been created, so that there are now ten different groups in which depreciation can be classified, and because new ways of constructing buildings and installations are constantly beyond the challenges of what is to be defined as what. The consequence of this has been that the legal system also has problems distinguishing between what is to be considered as machinery and what is to be considered as plant. This is a problem with which the majority is well aware, and the budget for the current year also has a majority view on this. The majority therefore look forward to the announcement by the government that there will be a review of next year's budget in this area. The third thing I want to say a little about is the changes you add to the inheritance tax law. There have been several changes in this law over time to equalise spouses and cohabitants. These have been important and correct changes supported by a broad majority in the United Kingdom. The changes that are now being made also have broad support. In short, there has been an inequality in today's legislation due to the fact that spouses have been able to stay in the same place with their heirs without the inheritance tax obligation being lifted before either distributions from the residence or the termination of the change. This possibility has not been able to benefit cohabiters in the same way. The government's proposal now changes this, so that there is equal treatment in this area between spouses and cohabitants. It is also proposed that a change in the amount of the allowance be made in the case of a distribution from a change of residence, so that distribution from the residence can now be calculated as coming from both spouses, or from the consensual spouses. This means, in practice, that you can now count two free amounts and not one as in today's system. This is a grip that makes it easier for families to transfer values to grandchildren. I will finally make an oral correction. In the Committee's recommendation, a letter has been included too much under Decision A and Decision B. Under Roman numerals I and ‘The title of the Law’ is replaced by ‘In Law 19 June 1964, paragraphs 19 and 64 respectively. 14...’ and ‘In Law 12 December 1975 No. 59...’. Instead, it shall read ‘Law...’ without ‘I’ in front of both places. I therefore ask that the recommendation be made in line with this. With this, I recommend that Stortinget support the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2111	The size has recorded this correction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2114	There is a lot about the Norwegian tax system that is unique. As the only country in Europe, we choose to punish owners of businesses that create jobs in the private sector. We do this very much by seizing the working capital of businesses every year – capital used by companies in our competitors to create new and competitive jobs. We're not doing this because as a nation, we need this money for welfare services. No, this money collects the state so that our surplus on the state budget can increase accordingly. Such a policy is called responsible. And it becomes even more responsible when this surplus is invested in our competitors' businesses through the State pension fund abroad. Of course, these companies invested on the assumption that we should not exert influence over the operation of these companies. Another unique tax phenomenon in Norway is that we publish and make entertainment of people's incomes and what people pay in taxes. There is a sense of responsibility in the system, because in this way we can all be each other's monitors. It is quite obvious that if you see that the neighbor is driving Mercedes while, according to the tax lists, he has low income and no wealth, this should be reported as suspicious behaviour, preferably to a public office dealing with such matters. In this way, we obviously get a more fair society. Remember, everyone's going, and then no one can get away. In the same way, you can imagine an overview of all those who receive disability benefits. If it is discovered that the neighbor is on such a casualty list at the same time as it is discovered that he is lifting heavily, it is also possible to report such suspicious behaviour — preferably to the same office. In this way, we obviously get a more fair society. And remember, everyone's coming, and then no one can get away. There's really no limit to how fair we can get it, only we're creative enough. The government now wants to change how people's income, wealth and tax payments are published. The principle that such publication has a good value for entertainment and information is to be continued. After all, it would become clear that the neighbor would not know how much I am paid and what I am paying in taxes. No, we don't want such a society full of secrets. No, today's system is so brilliant and not least so fair that it has to be continued. But there are certain changes, for only when I quote from the setting in the case: ‘On the proposal, the Boards of Appeal will still be able to press an electronic copy of the tax list, but only if the editors in question sign an agreement not to publish all or part of the tax list of personal taxpayers on the Internet’. This is going to be nice stuff. In this context, written agreements must be concluded between the allegedly free, critical and politically independent press that the use of information transmitted can only be used in accordance with the wishes of the authorities. Hmm! According to the setting, the editors are allowed to continue their play with people's equations, and they can publish what they find in the paper versions of the newspapers. Individuals should still be able to hang out, all the best for society, to know. In line with the proposal, tax lawyers and tax experts in intellectual and meaningful newspapers, such as: VG and Dagbladet stand on their side and reveal shortcomings in the tax system. In this way the newspapers become the extended arm of power, but in the name of justice, of course. Everything else will be irresponsible. I'll take up the suggestions we're on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2141	The representative Kenneth Svendsen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2144	The right has stressed in these matters that we encourage people to save more. We have also said that we want to stimulate today's future home buyers, young people, to become even better at saving. We have proposed to increase the annual savings in BSU from NOK 15 000 to NOK 25 000. At the same time, we have proposed something that the Minister of Finance himself should consider doing in the next budget, namely correcting the imbalance between paying 28 pst. tax on the return, while you get 20 pst. deduction. It should be corrected. We also have a reversal from the Right in that we want people to be better off paying for their pension, namely the individual pension savings scheme, where the opposition is gathering to increase the annual savings amount to NOK 40,000. Thomas Breen had a suggestion when it came to the inheritance tax law. The right is promoting a proposal together with the left today, which means that we want to remove the entire inheritance fee from 1 July 2011. There is a tax on money that has already been paid tax over several generations, and for the Right, we think it is an unnecessary tax. We have also found room in this matter to do something about the FUNN tax system, which is a good arrangement for business – so good that there has been a lot from the government to make it more bureaucratic, less effective than it has been. So the right has a proposal to raise the self-executed R & D part to $8 million. kr and the external part to 12 mill. kr in order to contribute to the fact that private business is carrying out research and development even more and can be deducted from it. In addition, an overall business life through a good while has now asked that you remove the maximum hourly rate that limits this, but that also makes it less profitable, while at the same time having a bureaucratic, old-fashioned model with a ceiling of 1,850 hours. The big issue, as the rapporteur also says, in connection with this has actually been the discussion of the tax lists. From the Right we give praise to the government for coming significantly longer now than 1 year or 1 1⁄2 years ago. Now there are restrictions on publication in the tax lists, and it has the full support of the Right. What we are not satisfied with is that we have more stringent protection when a company today asks for transparency in your creditworthiness. Then you will receive a letter a few days later about what kind of company has asked for information about you. That is why the Right has proposed today that you can do it easily with MinID – if you want to check out someone today, who has paid what in taxes or what they might have in income, you get a notification system. There's a proposal. In addition to that, we have a proposal that will make it even more difficult for the public, newspapers, neighbors, who it would be of curiosity to have search opportunities through the tax haven's web pages by setting a three-week deadline. As the rapporteur points out, we will probably get a bigger round of it on Friday when the Financial Committee examines the revised national budget in the Stortinget, so I will settle these comments and include the proposals from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2161	The representative of Arve Kambe has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2164	I'll be careful with a few brief comments. Firstly, I would like to stress the importance of the fact that we are now equalising the spouses and cohabitants in the inheritance tax law. That is a clear step forward. Then I would like to add some comments to a repetition of a debate here in the Chamber, namely the issue of the publication of the tax lists. On the SV side, we believe that we have found a solution now that takes care of several important considerations. For us, it is all the more important that we continue to ensure that we can have a public and informed debate on the basis of which we can have a strong community in Norway, a tax-funded, universal welfare state, namely the tax system. I want to give praise to the Norwegian Press Association and to the Norwegian Editors' Association who have contributed to a compendium in the hearing we have had on this matter, and where they provide us with good examples of why the publication of the tax lists is important and why this is about democracy and not about snooping, envy or a desire to be disgusted with other people. It's about the foundation of our community. It's about getting insight into who sits with power and influence in society. It is about the possibility of discussing the distribution of goods and burdens — whether it is fair between sexes, between different social groups, between city and country, etc. For example, there we saw articles that have been written in recent years on how it is a lot of money to earn on kindergarten, especially for those who are particularly creative in tax and corporate organization. This is an example of why it is an important matter for the government to put an end to the fact that public taxpayers, money from the community – in these cases at least – are going to enrich individuals instead of getting as good a kindergarten as possible for money. In addition, we received articles that showed that the rich have become richer in Larvik and Lardal in 2003 — it could probably be a second year as well. But it was at least a year when the richest tenth controlled almost 3⁄4 of all wealth. It is also an example of why it has been an overarching goal for us who belong to the red-green parties to reverse developments – which we have also made clear. From 2006, the arrow has been moving down slightly in terms of differences, and we can go into the so-called Gini index and look at how the distribution between those who have the most and those who have the least in our society is. For the first time in 20 years, we have actually managed to reverse the trend that has persisted since the 1980s, that the rich have become considerably richer and have had larger parts of the social chess at the expense of the large majority. Then there's also an article that shows that there are fewer women at the head of wealth in Bergen in the last decade. There was also an article from this compendium. There are also many examples of why the removal of property taxes will give rise to increasing differences between women and men. It is also an argument for not going in to abolish the property tax. I think this is a good example of why it is important to ensure transparency and transparency and that journalists should have access to these tax lists and be able to create lists of, for example: the ten richest, go in and see what the elected people really serve, or look at what kind of economic interests relate to important individuals. I believe that, as the finance committee, we have to assume that money and power go hand in hand. It would then only be lacking if we did not treat financial resources as a potential means of power that it is important to get transparency around. Keeping secret what incomes and what wealth people have is keeping secret who has power at the same time. And I can't understand why it would be important for Norway's elected representatives to take care of this kind of secret team. We that belong to the red-green parties have the opposite approximation. We want equalization, equality and democracy. It also means that we welcome discussions about both the contributions through the tax bill and what kind of income and wealth people are sitting on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2190	The centre party is pleased with the change made by the government in respect of the tax lists. It's a combination of keeping the old and venerable principle of transparency, while limiting the possibilities of commercialising the use of tax lists. And as the Press Association and the Editors' Association say, one will still have the opportunity to run a critical journalism on these issues. It's very important. When one hears the debate and how the Progress Party and the Right puts it, the Progress Party is clear that they want to ban it, and the Right uses the term ‘snoking’. I want to go a little bit further on those things. It seems here that the Right Party and the Advance Party want to remove the public from the economic interactions that exist in a number of areas between the State and the individual citizen. It would be interesting if the two parties wanted to make serious about it. For example, within my industry, agriculture, the economic balance of the individual farmer is with the state, the so-called subsidies, which is expanded every time there are payments. It appears that the Progress Party and the Right are very pleased to get a detailed overview of what the individual holder gets from the state, the public. There are no comments on this. If not all are aware of this, it is now on the floor of the Stortinget, one whom Dagbladet has designated as the King of Subsidies on the Stortinget. I have not heard that any of the representatives of the Right Party or the Advance Party have expressed that it is not very appropriate – in their understanding of society – to continue with it, I have not yet experienced it. I have to say that I am very little satisfied with the attempt at the argument of principle from the Progress Party and the Right in the area of interaction between the public and the individual citizen. The centre party is well pleased with the publication which is, whether it is of tax lists or of agricultural incomes. And we can go on and look at everyone else's financial balance with the state. We will then experience that we get quite interesting figures both in the consulting industry, among a number of seafaring entrepreneurs and within some social security schemes and other schemes relating to those who have high pensions. The second point that I want to say just a little bit about is depreciation rates. What the Minister of Finance has previously explained here is that this is a subject on which he will go thoroughly. It's like that, among other things. is reversed in this setting, namely ‘Depreciation of certain operating resources in industrial installations’, which is to be seen in a broader and wider context. The parties to the government are very clear that there should be a correlation between the tax depreciation and the economic impairment. In particular, there is today a need to see this in relation to some structural investments, where the balancing principle leads to a slight reduction in depreciation rates than the actual impairment rate. When the right party says that a depreciation premium should also be productivity and incentives for investment, one goes away from the principle of matching tax depreciation with the impairment. I want to warn you about that, because it's in the right-hand context to describe it as a subsidy, if they had used that language theme and that thematics. But it's probably not appropriate for the Right in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2203	As for the content of this matter, the Christian People's Party will come back to it in the debate on Friday. Today, I just want to promote the proposals of the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2211	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2214	I heard what the case rapporteur asked for, but the Left has put a lot of work into comments and proposals. That is why I ask you to explain this. The starting point for the Left's tax policy is that working, saving and investing in Norwegian enterprises and jobs should be profitable, and not least contributing to environmental and climate-friendly societal development. Therefore, the core of the Left's tax policy is a shift from red to green tax. Converting from consumption to saving, from environmental hostility to environmental friendliness is a worthwhile thing. In our proposal for a revised national budget, we propose a number of concrete measures for a shift from red to green taxation. With the tax policy of the Left, working and creating values will be more profitable, while pollution will be less profitable. The left wants to facilitate an innovative business, where more start their own business. For us, it's actually an independent political goal that more people do just that: start their own business. If we are to succeed in doing so, we need to improve the conditions for individual enterprises. Not least for better and equal social rights. Various government councils have repeatedly said at the request of the Left that they will consider strengthening the social rights of self-employed people. However, this has not happened, despite the fact that the government of Soria Moria II promised that both private occupational pension and tax reform would be reviewed in order to improve the conditions of the self-employed. For this reason, the Left has a number of proposals in this setting that will improve the conditions of self-employed workers — from better social rights, including sick pay, the right to a minimum deduction, reduced social security contributions, increased maximum savings in the occupational pension scheme to better and more sensible rules on the payment of taxes and VAT. The representative Lundtigen had a commendable initiative to amend the tax law § 12-11 to strengthen the rights of the self-employed when the Stortinget discussed the evaluation of the tax reform recently. I hope this has a little better ground in the government than the Left's many proposals seem to have. In autumn and winter, the Left carried out nearly a thousand company visits. Among the many feedback we received, there were some repeaters. One was to bring down the form field. The other thing was to make it easier to hire one or two more in a small enterprise. Then, of course, a complicated code is one thing, but what many also pointed out was that it is costly to employ more people, especially in an uncertain start-up phase. The left therefore proposes to introduce a scheme in which half of the employers’ fees are paid for employees of start-ups with up to five employees in the first three years of activity. This will make it easier for new businesses to grow, as well as creating more jobs across the country. For future jobs, it is also essential that there be more apprenticeships. Therefore, the Left proposes that the employer’s fee for apprentices be abolished from 1 July onwards. Enterprises taking up the social task of vocational training shall be rewarded. While the Left will improve business conditions, we will stimulate business to become more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. Through the tax system, it can be done in two ways – either by increasing environmental taxes or by introducing differentiated rates that premium desired environmental and climate-friendly behaviour. The left therefore proposes the introduction of a separate «environmental depreciation rate» in balancing group d, so that further depreciation of 5 pst is possible. if the investment clearly generates an environmental or climate benefit. The same approach is followed by the Left in the Swedish Tax Fund scheme. Today it's only 10 pst. of the research activity within the TaxFUNN that can be related to climate/environment/energy efficiency improvement. This will increase Left and therefore proposes the introduction of a separate amount limit in addition to such R & D activity of 2 million, respectively. NOK 4 million. kr, depending on whether the research has been carried out internally in the enterprise or externally. Finally, I take up the Left's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2237	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4784]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2255	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2264	The VAT is designed as a general consumption charge, which should ideally have a broad basis, so that different types of consumption are treated in the same way as possible. This will ensure a level playing field and prevent the increase in distortions, adaptations and administrative costs. Both new technologies and increased trade between countries are a development we want. We can download more and more electronic products, for example. music, books and movies, via the Internet. It's a pleasure and gives us as consumers new opportunities. The VAT base in Norway is narrower than among our main trading partners. Through the decision of the Storting on the 2011 tax regime, it became clear that we impose VAT on electronic services purchased from abroad by individuals in Norway, in the same way as in the EU, so that trade in electronic services is treated in a non-discriminatory manner regardless of whether the seller is in Norway or abroad. It is important both to ensure the principle of non-discrimination between Norwegian and foreign providers and to prevent the VAT gap from becoming too large when the number of products with tax exemptions is growing. The decision does not imply the charging of a new type of service, but the payment of VAT on the purchase of such services irrespective of whether the provider is established outside or within the Norwegian VAT range. The setting we have for treatment today is a follow-up to this decision. The government announced the time when there would be a need to establish a simplified registration system for providers from abroad, so that operators, for example: will not require a representative in Norway to register. This is in line with the regime in the EU countries. I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee, the Government Parties, the Right and the Christian People's Party support the proposal for a simplified registration and reporting system and that the system should be in place when the fee obligation enters into force on 1 July. The new system will ensure that there is a law that is easy to comply with while removing a distortion of the VAT system. The simplified system includes, inter alia,: a voluntary alternative to registration in the VAT register, electronic communications via Altin between providers and charging authorities, electronic communications with a single tax office, simplified registration procedures, simplified reporting and simplified documentation requirements. The registration limit will normally be NOK 50000. As the proposal is very similar to the rules adopted by EU Member States since 2003, several of those affected by the proposal will already be aware of its content. The minority of the Committee, the Progress Party and the Left, oppose the proposal for a simple reporting system and justify it, inter alia: with regard to these products, their resistance to the obligation of VAT itself. This obligation was thus adopted in the past, in the context of the 2011 tax and tax package, and when that debate was decided, it would be nice if we could agree to establish a simple registration mechanism. Given that the VAT decision remains in place – and there has not been a rematch – the consequence of going against the new regime is that the old, less light-minded rules remain. With that background, I think it is a relatively simple decision to vote in favour of the proposal, which provides a simpler system. But I'm glad that a broad majority is behind the vote. And we'll probably hear more about the rationale for the minority's view of the posts that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2281	Int. 3 S for 2010–2011, the Progress Party opposed the introduction of VAT on electronic services from abroad. The Progress Party fears that such a change of rules could result in Norwegian customers being excluded from a number of suppliers abroad because they do not want to register in the Norwegian VAT system. If they do not, but still sell to Norwegian customers, a number of previously legitimate purchases of goods and services will now be tax evasion. It still appears to the Progress Party as very unclear how this should be implemented, followed up and tested. All relevant objections and questions raised during the consultation round on the proposal for the amendment of the VAT law are dismissed either as not necessarily covered by the legislative proposal, as to the need to investigate further, and/or to return to the question in the form of the regulation. The Progress Party therefore has little faith that the Norwegian authorities will be able to follow up on all these cases. Otherwise, I refer you to the motion for a resolution for Prop. 120 S for 2010-2011 in the context of the revised national budget for 2011 and goes against the government’s proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2290	In this case, I take the floor for one reason, namely that the Right has turned around. I ask the government parties to follow that up a little – that is an example for follow-up. The size of the budget has decided that from 1 July – i.e. in just a few weeks – VAT will be 25 pst. when individuals purchase electronic services from abroad. The right voted against this in the context of the 2011 budget, but this time wants to follow the legislative proposal. Today, Norwegians have to pay VAT on games, books, music – on everything downloaded from Norwegian suppliers, and so it has been since 2001. The right has rightly criticised this in the disfavor of Norwegian suppliers, and now sees that this proposal equates with 1 July 2011. The government's system is simple, and something has been put in place to avoid increased bureaucracy. The obligation for establishments to register in the VAT register shall only apply where turnover exceeds NOK 50000. In this way, it is ensured that during some of the short-term loads by Norwegian consumers on some small businesses abroad, the heavy registration process is avoided. In the case of supply to traders and to the public, the recipient shall calculate and pay VAT. There will be one register, and the communication will be electronic, and there will be only one tax office. There's right-wing reason to praise the government for that. It is a relatively flexible implementation of a legislative proposal. We also note that most of the hearing opinions are initially positive. Of course, there's someone who thinks it's a little too fast. Some also claim that there is a breach of procedural procedures, short alert time, etc. Right leaves to go into critical remarks as we go into the effect itself, and then we see that it's been reasonably busy getting it done. One of the things that makes us choose to go for this is that since 2003, the EU has had some of the same. What has made the Right vote for this time is that we can no longer justify why foreign services should be exempt from VAT in Norway. Nor can we justify why large parts of this industry do not have to pay VAT, as all other industries do, even though this will increase the price for consumers. The right is also about the law being enforced, and the matter has been included in the State budget. If we vote against a law, we also create a expectation of removing it when we soon come into government. But I don't think we're going to remove this law, just because it equates Norwegian companies with foreign companies and vice versa. And why would hundreds of millions of dollars be spent on foreign companies to get tax exemptions compared to the system that Norwegian companies currently have against Norwegian consumers? There's no logic in that. So the right-hand side goes into this arrangement anyway. But I stress that this has nothing to do with VAT on e-books, it has nothing to do with VAT on newspapers, and it has nothing to do with the debate on duty-free imports – whether it is 200 kroner or inflation adjusted. There are parallel things that go separately, where the right has had different positions than the government, and it looks like we're going to have it in different things than this. But in this case, there is something else. Thus, Norwegian consumers have to pay a fee when they pay for a good or a service, regardless of whether it is Norwegian or foreign. Today Norwegian companies are disfavoring, and we don't see any logic in preserving that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2305	In the treatment of the 2011 State Budget, where the principle decision to impose tax obligations on electronic services supplied from abroad to private individuals was made, we stated in the Left that it was very unclear how this was to be implemented, followed up and verified. The left also asked a number of questions to the Ministry relating to the introduction of such a scheme and, as we in the Left see it, received poor answers. I note that everything left said in November is unfortunately just as good today. It's still as unclear how a number of things should be tested and followed up. All relevant objections and questions raised during the consultation round on the proposal for a change to the VAT law we are examining are either dismissed as not necessarily covered by the legislative proposal, that it needs to be further investigated, and/or that the ministry should come back to the question in the form of the regulation. The hearing is also characterised, as the representative Mr Kambe said, by the fact that the legislative changes have taken place under heavy time pressure, and several hearing bodies just point to the fact that there has been a very short consultation period and that the hearing has been carried out in breach of the investigative instructions, all the time limit has been only four weeks, while the investigation instruction states a minimum of six weeks’ consultation period. This is in addition to the fact that the proposal to impose a charging obligation was not made at the hearing prior to the decision taken in the context of the 2011 State budget procedure. And if you are going to put in place an e-VAT system, you should have taken a good time, look at what works and does not work in other countries, and wait for the EU to make its changes to its system – changes that will only apply from 1 January 2015. Many questions remain unanswered, not least how the government is to deal with purchases and sales between Norwegian citizens and foreign providers who do not register in the voluntary register of the Ministry of Finance. The definition of an electronic service also seems unclear. In general, it seems unclear what the government and the majority of the population want with the scheme. I read with interest the portrait interview with Charlo Halvorsen in Today's Business last Saturday, where Halvorsen repeated a conversation between himself, the Finance Minister, Russia's President Medvedev and King Harald on the English rock band Deep Purple – enjoyable reading. If you buy a CD or a lp from Deep Purple from Amazon or other foreign websites, you don't pay VAT on your purchase, but if you buy the same music in MP3 or other electronic formats, you have to pay VAT. Well, the lp plates experience a clean-up by day, but this just illustrates the problem of the system that is now being introduced: new and environmentally friendly production is penalised in the tax system. That's the exact opposite of what the left represents. We want to shift the tax system so that environmentally friendly behaviour and environmentally friendly production are rewarded. So we get a situation where anyone can go to London, buy 20 CD's from Deep Purple and go home with them without paying any VAT, or get the VAT refund at the airport. If you buy less than 200 kroner, you also don't get any VAT if you order online, but if you buy a single song in electronic format for 9 kroner, you have to pay VAT. The least environmentally friendly method is zero VAT, the most environmentally friendly and forward-looking is VAT on everything. The logic is really quite simple: either there must be VAT, customs duties and charges on both digital and physical products, or on none of them. I hope the Minister of Finance – if he takes the floor – explains the logic of an article that might come after me. As the Left sees it, this system will be no more than a competitive advantage for those who are not law-abiding and registered, or for those who are actively adjusting to avoid having to register. And what about services you use when you're traveling? What happens to a Norwegian citizen who downloads a program or a song when he is abroad, or if you simply create a British or American account with iTunes? Should the customs check the iPod for entry and exit? As stated in my statement and in the vote, the Left is voting against the proposal we are considering today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2331	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4794]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2348	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2357	The store is today invited to make two changes to the Gambling Act. The first amendment is a bill that involves a breakdown of the control tasks of Norsk Tipping, where the question is whether the revision of Norsk Tipping can be done by an externally selected auditor. Today Norsk Tipping AS is audited by the Riksrevisionen. The National Audit Office has previously revised a number of state companies, but today they carry out this work only for Norwegian Typing. In addition to the audit mission, the Riksrevision carries out company and management control of the company. In the period around 2007 there was some noise around Norwegian Typing. The fact that there was a need to clean up several areas clearly shows the position, and central to this was the Riksrevision – by being both the auditor of the company, and not least that it was those who carried out a necessary company and management control of the company. The Committee agrees that the control of a company such as Norsk Tipping is important, in particular by finding an appropriate balance between the commercial and accounting aspects of the company on the one hand, and control of the distribution of waste and the management of the department of the company on the other. The government therefore proposes that the future control work against Norwegian Typing be shared by changing the Mobilisation Act so that Norwegian Typing AS will be audited by an auditor selected by the Ministry in the future. In the future, the National Audit Board will carry out the corporate and management control with Norsk Tipping AS. The majority of the Committee, all other than the members of the Progress Party, supports the Government in this area. The second amendment to the gambling law that Stortinget is invited to do today is that the law should also say something about how to distribute the profits from Norsk Tipping's bingo terminals. In connection with the prohibition that non-Norwegian Typing should be able to set up vending machines entered into force on 1 July 2007, a derogation from this ban was made by the fact that bingo machines could still be privately operated in bingo halls. We recorded a significant increase in the turnover of bingo vending machines between 2006 and 2009. In parallel with this, a large increase was recorded in the number of requests to the Game Dependent Guide. It was therefore decided that bingo vending machines were also banned from 1 April 2010 and that these bingo vending machines could be replaced by their own bingo vending machines from Norsk Typing AS. A profit is expected on the operation of Norwegian Typing bingo terminals. The question we have to address is how to distribute this surplus after Norwegian Typing and the bingo contractors have received their compensation. With the government's proposal, the profit after the distribution will be included in the key. Norwegian Typing estimates that this will be 50 million. kr in the start-up wounds. The majority support the government in this. The challenge has been to identify the level of turnover that should be the basis for the distribution of the surplus. The Government’s proposal to base its 2006 turnover is supported by the majority of the Committee. That means when the total bingo game in the whole country exceeds 127 million. kr, the profits of Norwegian Typing's winning terminals shall be included in the key. The majority also agree with the government that the distribution key should be distributed in the first years so that Norwegian Typing is left with 40 pst, while the remaining one is distributed among bingo contractors with 35 pst. and layers and associations of 25 pst. I think it might be good to clarify that when this distribution comes into force, it's the turnover of each bingo room to be taken into account, so that everyone gets the part of the turnover they're supposed to have. It is also important to clarify that such a key should be adjusted by means of a separate regulation in the years following the introduction of this amendment. Gambling policies are challenging in many ways. One side is that it provides good income for teams and organisations, but it also has social challenges such as: the risk of gambling dependence. And finally, the majority of the committee agrees that it was important to limit the large increase we have seen in electronic games in bingo halls in recent years. Finding the balance point between these two considerations is difficult, but through what is being presented today, we believe that we have come up with solutions that ensure both of these considerations in a good way by offering the Belago machines from Norwegian Typing and certain restrictions on the data bingo terminals. Finally, this case has been committed, and it was just supposed to be missing. But I think it's important to clarify that in the future, volunteering will also have good income opportunities through its bingo activities. All turnover in traditional bingo and data bingo games will be attributed to organisers and teams/organisations as at present. In addition, those who choose it will also receive their income from Norwegian Typing bingo machines. Strengthening the pot for gambling through this legislative change further helps to facilitate a better framework for volunteering in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2395	The National Audit Office’s arguments against the proposed amendment are that this would ‘disincent the official control of the management of Community funds’. Norwegian Typing's special and special societal position is the reason for the Riksrevision, probably also the monopoly situation that Norsk Typing has. That the Riksrevision should continue to have a role as auditor of Norwegian Typing is without doubt also my view. Do we see a privatisation here from the red-green? When Kosmo becomes considerate and critical, you eat privatization camels and find new solutions. The National Audit Office has very good competence to carry out precisely this type of revision of Norwegian Typing. I trust the Riksrevisionen, and I think the government has that in other areas too, but not in this field. If Norsk Tipping AS needs more accounting competence, it can be easily purchased from the large private audit firms as a supplement to the control of the Riksaudition. This proposal will significantly weaken the democratic control of the ticking agents at Norsk Tipping. They are set to manage funds on behalf of the community, which we should take into account. It is regrettable that this vision is not shared by the red-green government. Now they have the wing clipping Kosmo and the Riksrevision at Norwegian Typing. What's next? I am afraid that the consequence of the red-green policy is that 1,200 women around the country can lose their jobs – 1,200 – and they are the ones working in the bingo industry. The government should have that it is not populist in all areas, at least not in this area, when you see how many positions this is about. The government's proposal is that the total income of associations from all bingo games should be returned to 2006 levels, i.e. five years ago, which means a reduction in revenue by a total of 64 pst, from 351 million. NOK 127 million. kr. Yes, the government is not populists in this matter: Teams and associations suffered great losses as the private vending machines were banned, and now they risk losing even more. A total of 2,466 teams and associations received a total of 351 million in 2009. kr from the bingo. It is on average NOK 146 000 per year per association. It's not little money for a small team or a small association. We have received letters from many of these, which tell us about the great consequences it will have for them. I guess that's when a small association loses so much money. This government is not running with populism! A significant reduction in revenue will represent a severe blow especially for the smallest layers and associations in the districts. The revenues from the bingo are very valuable, and sometimes absolutely necessary for many layers and associations. I believe that bingo is a game form that has been viewed to a large extent as more entertainment than anything else around the country, and the prevalence has been particularly high in small communities. It's also acted like a social gathering. Bingo revenues mean important contributions to local association, and a good number of organisations do not have access to gambling funds above the key. The Progress Party believes that a better distribution profile is provided if bingo revenues are mainly reversed and fed to local layers regardless of the distribution over the key. I am also pleased to note that there are little questions about gambling addiction in the context of bingo games. Therefore, the Progress Party does not promote any proposal in this matter, but we will vote against the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2416	This is one thing with two main issues. One is about Norwegian Tipping's audit, and there are no problems in supporting the government's proposals. We believe that it is a good grip that is proposed. It is also natural – if I had said so – in relation to the main profile and the tasks that the Riksrevision will be working on, and that is in itself a good starting point for Norwegian Typing. So the right supports the proposal presented on that point. In the case of Norwegian Tipping's takeover of the bingo machines, we see it as a natural follow-up to the slot machine policy that has been. In this sense, we believe that there is a proper grip in the light of the social policy conditions that justified the acquisition of slot machines. But if it's true that Norwegian Typing is going to take over the machines, we don't think there's any necessary consequence of the fact that the profits of this business are going to be added to the key. There's actually two different things. Today, at least as far as the proposition is concerned, we can see that it is approximately. 1200 teams and organisations that do not have access to funds through the key. It is clear, as has also been said here, that they will suffer quite a loss through the proposed conversion. We believe that it is an advantage that voluntary funding is provided on a broad basis. We also think it is beneficial that there is a link between the local business that the bingo business is and the local teams that receive support. In principle, the Right considers that the funds to be allocated to the local teams and associations should be those that the bingo establishment gives birth to. As you know, the government has proposed that the 2006 level of turnover should be the basis for the local associations. The government wants to freeze this as a cut-off time on an accrual basis. The right believes that there is an unreasonable grip, and that it is not very well justified. I suppose, without that being so clearly said, but perhaps the Council of State can answer in its statement, that an important part of this reason is that the corresponding action was taken when the slot machine monopoly was introduced – that you dated back to what profit you were to be guaranteed. I mean, the amounts we're talking about are such an insane difference. That time we talked about an increase in slot machine revenue from 4 to 5 billion. kr up to several and twenty billion dollars, while here we're talking about a couple of hundred million dollars in difference. What needs to be important here may not be the principle of non-discrimination; the important thing is to do something with which voluntary organisations can live. Then we believe that there is no reason to transfer as large a share as this, to the key from 2006 and, to put it, forever. On the other hand, when you're in and you're in a game-funded business, you have to bear in mind that it's going up and down a little – that games are also changing. And from that, we think it's much better to add a percentage. We have proposed a modest percentage. We have proposed it for 15 pst. If we had some support from the government parties, we could discuss that percentage. But we think it should initially be low. The starting point for this is that there should be an incentive for Norwegian Typing to also develop bingo games so that they are not marginalised. It's also expressed by the bingo operators. This means that the Right supports the proposed legislative changes, because the difference that we have is on the regulatory level. I will then address the Right proposal, but we will therefore vote in favour of the legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2433	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2436	This case concerns a new statutory audit scheme for Norsk Tipping AS and the distribution of profits from bingo terminals. Briefly on the first new statutory audit system: the legislative proposal involves a breakdown of the audit tasks, so that the Riksaudition carries out the company and management audit with Norsk Tipping AS, while a selected external auditor carries out the ongoing audit of the company’s accounts. The Christian People's Party considers this to be a strengthening of the control of Norwegian Typing. So to the issue of distribution of profits from bingo terminals: Bingo operations in Norway are currently made up of both traditional paper-based bingo games and electronic machines. Recently there has been a significant increase in the use of electronic terminals at the expense of the paper product. We also see that the age structure in the bingo rooms has changed, and the electronic machines attract younger age groups. It is important to dampen the growth of electronic services, which may cause gambling problems for some. At the same time, Christian People's Party, like the government, is concerned that bingo can be maintained as a concept. Traditional paper bingo does not have the same addiction problem, but can, on the contrary, be good social meeting places. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the objective of the amendment, namely to strengthen traditional bingo operations at the expense of the more aggressive electronic offerings. Today's terminals are to be replaced by terminals from Norwegian Typing. These are machines that are easier to control and that are less aggressive. At the same time, these vending machines will provide a certain income base for both bingo contractors and local teams and associations. There is no doubt that this case is also about compensating the bingo contractors to some extent. But the core of this case is to ensure control over a part of the gaming market that has not been regulated well enough so far, and it supports the Christian People's Party. Then there have been some reports of concern from voluntary teams and associations related to percentages and distribution principles, which have already been discussed by many. Some are concerned that not all income from Norwegian Typing machines should be included in the income base for the key key distribution. But there are also many who have a different vision. The most important thing for the Christian People's Party is that we take care of two important considerations: incomes for volunteering, teams and associations, and that we limit gambling dependence. We believe that the measures that are now being taken take account of these considerations, and we therefore support the proposals. In the case of the 40 pst key. to Norwegian Typing, 35 pst. for bingo contractors and 25 pst. It is important to closely monitor developments in teams and associations. Here we need to consider how this turns out after a certain period of time, and the majority of the committee also specifies that the key should be adjusted by means of a separate regulation in the years following the introduction of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2453	Last June, Stortinget dealt with the Riksrevision's report on the extended revision of Norwegian Typing. The majority, all except the Progress Party, said on the Control and Constitutional Committee that they asked the Ministry to ‘assess whether the accounting audit of Norsk Tipping can be carried out in the future by external auditors’ instead of by the National Audit Office, as the scheme is today. Norwegian Typing is the last public limited liability company that has the Riksaudition as accounting auditor, and I ask the Progress Party to note that they believe this is a breach of current practice. This is to carry out audits in line with what we do in other areas, including: by NRK. The auditor may then be selected as a private audit firm with continuous experience of auditing of a number of types of limited liability companies. In my opinion, it provides better assurance that this company will be properly audited. But the Riksrevision, like the Swedish National Audit Authority, will continue to play an important role in relation to Norwegian Typing AS. The fact that the Riksaudition will now receive an audit report from an external auditor for its audit work will, in my opinion, strengthen this work. Such an assessment has also been based on the revision of the Bank of Norway and other independent state-owned institutions. I am pleased that the majority of the committee has joined the proposal for a change in the law on gambling. It has been a good tradition for the last ten years to say that the Storting has largely been behind the main lines of gambling policy. I also think it is important that this tradition continues. It provides the best assurance that we can prevent social problems related to gambling. At the same time, the Norwegian regulation with exclusive rights to single players for the largest gambling companies provides efficient operations and a limited scope for private profits from the gambling market. It thus ensures maximum profits for sport, culture and non-governmental organisations. The turnover in the bingo halls has increased from 1.9 billion. DKR in 2006 until approx. 5.5 B.C.E. kr in 2010. The sharp increase is due to the increased turnover of fast electronic games in the bingo halls. It has also contributed to increased revenue for the teams and associations receiving profits from bingo operations. The increase coincides entirely with the ban on vending machines which entered into force on 1 July 2007. Increased turnover to bingo halls is positive, but there is a lot of evidence that bingo rooms have taken over part of the problematic gambling activity that we saw earlier on the vending machines. The Ministry therefore decided to ban bingo vending machines from 1 April 2010 and has adopted restrictions on the rules on fast computer games. Norwegian Typing is about to place new games in bingo halls. This will also be fast games, but these games will be subject to more stringent restrictions and controls. We know that it's the fast games that can create addiction, and that's why we need to have better control over these. So Norwegian Typing has taken over the responsibility for the fastest gambling in the bingo halls, and we get stronger state control of these. Without the measures we have now adopted, we will be able to have growing problems with gambling addiction in bingo rooms. We have also recorded this by game phone for those who are game addicts. Many of those who previously depended on vending machines may seem to have moved to other types of games, and they have increasingly contacted the auxiliaries. In the light of the examination by the Storting of the proposal for the allocation of profits from bingo terminals, the Ministry will adopt a regulation regulating the distribution of profits from these terminals. I'm adding that the distribution is going to be 40 pst. to Norwegian Typing to cover investment and operating costs, 35 pst. for bingo contractors and 25 pst. to the teams and associations that receive profits from bingo operations. This distribution has been discussed with the actors involved in the handling of the bill by Storting. The general rule that the Norwegian Typing game's surplus is to be distributed through the key is to be determined. However, in a transitional phase, the profits of Norwegian Typing terminals in bingo halls should be substantially returned to the bingo facilities. Bingo revenues are likely to decline in the coming years, because bingo machines were banned in 2010 and because the rules for computer bingo become more stringent from 2012. With transitional arrangements, we can prevent bingo spaces from falling away, and the decline in incomes to teams and associations is too great. If it would be appropriate to change the distribution in the long term, regulatory changes will be made after ordinary consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2474	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2477	I'm not going to ask about the clipping of the Riksrevision, Kosmo, in this case, or the purchase of private services from the major US audit firms. But I'm going to ask the Council of State about the hundreds of letters we've received from local teams and associations, where they say they're going to lose part of their income, actually 127 million. kr. What are they going to do in the future? Then I would also like to ask the Council of State for feedback from the bingo industry that 1,200 female jobs around the districts are at risk of closure. What do you say to those women? Does not the Council of State believe this either, if you do not believe that local teams and associations will lose as much money as they have suggested in letters to the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2484	It was a balance when we introduced a ban on vending machines, that this could lead to some non-governmental organisations losing important income bases. But the consideration of gambling addiction weighed for us at the time more heavily, so even if the purpose of gambling activities can be good, and that revenue goes for good purposes, not always the middle goal. Therefore, we need a game policy in Norway that takes into account that people are not going to become addicts and that takes into account that we are going to give more money to local organisations. And that is why we have laid the groundwork for the biggest change in the increase in income to voluntary teams and organisations through the VAT compensation scheme. Now it also has so many of those who were game addicts, moved over to other types of vending machines, among other things. data bingo and bingo vending machines, so that the increase from 2006 to now has been roughly a fivefold increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2492	I want to record what Ib Thomsen started with. We're here to get the bingo vending machines taken over by Norwegian Typing. It's about having your hand on the wheel and the speed that was important in the slot machine business as well. But when it is done, the social policy aspect is taken care of. Then we have that control. I can't quite see that there's any necessary connection between that and having to take such a large part of the profit to add the key. You could imagine that Norsk Tipping kept control, ran and stilted with this and got paid for it, but that the money you actually made in bingo went back to those purposes. Then you wanted to reach the 1,200 teams and organisations. For example, if you were to do this, you'd have to do it. not the abstinence movement in Oslo loses a million, as they're probably going to do now. If you had a percentage, you would take into account the changes in the game volume that the council had in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2499	It is worth noting that the reason why the revenues and profits from computer bingo and bingo machines have increased so dramatically in recent years is that we imposed a ban on vending machines. Now the revenue from these vending machines has become very, very large. As I tried to say to the previous replicator, these increased from 53 million. SEK in 2006 to 250 million. in 2009. In my view, it would not be appropriate for those who have received money during this transitional period to be guaranteed these revenues in any case. Then I think it is right that we should give access to more teams and organisations, so that everyone can get a part of this through, among other things. the VAT compensation scheme, which provides money to all voluntary teams and organisations, and through the key. Only profits from bingo terminals will in the long term go directly into the key. It's worth noting. However, it will be suggested that this should not happen until profits from main games and computer bingo games are at a level corresponding to the total bingo surplus.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2506	But it is not that more people get with the government's arrangements. It's true that fewer get, because the 1,200 layers mentioned in the proposition do not have access to the key's system. So what's going to be the result now is you give to the ones that get already. Frankly, this has no connection with the VAT compensation system either. This is not the money that makes the government’s ceiling for VAT compensation higher because of that. In fact, the result is that 1,200 organisations don't get funds, at least they're going to get less than what they got before, and I can't see that the Council of State has explained that there's some necessary connection between getting social policy control, that's control over gambling addiction through Norwegian Typing, and where the money actually ends. I haven't seen that logic. I would like to hear if the Council of State can complement it, if she has any thoughts about the type of organisation that will not now be given funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2511	Some have claimed that there is a total surplus from bingo operations, i.e. main games and computer games to be included in the key. That's what's not right. Only the bingo terminal surplus is to enter the key in the long term. However, it has been suggested that this should not happen until the profits from main games and computer bingo games are at a level equivalent to the total bingo profits of voluntary teams and associations in 2006, i.e. 127 million. kr. It would not be right, however, because a very high level has been achieved through these games in the last few years since we removed the vending machines, that there should automatically be revenues for these teams and organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2518	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2523	The representative Ib Thomsen used to present a populist play about the consequences of today's bingo decision, and that it's dramatic to send 1,200 ladies out on the street. To be honest, I have to admit that it is difficult to understand how the Progress Party has managed to arrive at this figure on the basis of the setting we are dealing with today. The issue we are dealing with today is, as most people have understood, how to distribute the profits of Norwegian Tipping's bingo terminals as well as the social aspects of our game policy. To repeat both myself and others: in the future, any bingo organizer can choose whether to have Norwegian Typing terminals in their premises. If they do, they will also be left with money from this game. In addition, they can play bingo with paper and ink and datum bingo as much as they like, and each crown will belong to teams and organizations, as they do today. So the consequences of what we're doing today are very close to what the Progress Party is trying to describe as a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2530	In the reply I cannot say that I received a satisfactory response from the Council of State on the relationship between the fact that Norwegian Typing would take over the machines and that the money would necessarily go to the key. The argument that hung again was that it was unreasonable that the organisations should now receive an amount based on a level that came as a result of the decline in the revenue from the slot machines. It's hard to see that's the case. Now, these new vending machines are going to help make it a total of less revenue. I don't think we're talking about an amount of the amount that today's numbers might look like. In addition, we're talking about the difference between 127 million. kr, which is the 2006 level, and I think it's 357 million. kr mentioned in the proposition, perhaps a higher amount. But anyway, it's a few hundred million dollars. Frankly, I think it might be a little bit daunting to be so accurate for maybe half a thousand organizations that all have a good starting point. The abstinence movement in Oslo is going to be run for millions of dollars as a result of this, and I can't see that there's any desired goal with the game policy. On the contrary, I think it creates a very artificial distinction when you apply the 2006 level. When we were working on slot machine takeovers, the economic downturn that we were going to deal with was about the difference of tens of billions of dollars, and it was obvious that we had to find a manageable level of income that would be guaranteed. That could not be the case in this case. This is a relatively small amount of money, at least in relation to games, and the key is given large amounts of money. I don't think that means so much in that context either. I think it's a pity that you choose to base more than primitive approaches, that when those who were included in the slot machines didn't get, no, they certainly won't get either. I think that seems a little small and unnecessary compared to many, very good actions across the country, which get money in their local environments to do a local job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2541	The representative Simensen from the Workers' Party wondered where the Advance Party gets its figures. Yes, then he should open his mailbox, he should open all the letters we got from hundreds of associations around the country. There are the figures to which the Progress Party refers. Now I have heard that there have been new arguments in the matter, namely gambling addiction, to remove these 127 million. kr from local teams and associations, which have obtained it in cooperation with their bingo operators. These arguments have not reached the Committee. The Committee has consulted on the matter. There was no mention of a deity about gambling addiction. On the contrary, it is believed that bingo is not within the category that the argument that has come up now is within. On the other hand, we heard that teams and associations throughout the country would lose a lot of income, that it would have major consequences. We heard that, and we also heard that 1,200 women's positions around the country are in danger of being closed down. What do we say to these women? Or is a woman worth less in the districts? Is a binge tin worth less than the academic in Oslo? That's what we heard at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2550	I think the representative Ib Thomsen should be aware that there has been an increase in the number of gambling addicts on these types of terminals, i.e. computer bingo and bingo machines. In the past, there were a lot of gambling addicts on the old vending machines, and we can see that some of those who were problem players moved to the new vending machines. So to the extent that we're going to talk about which people are worth something, I have to say that the kids who have parents who used to depend on ATMs, the kids who have parents who depend on computer bingo and bingo vending machines, are just as much worth. We have recorded – and we cannot ignore it – that there has been an increase in those who are seeking help because of these machines. In 2007, we saw that of the people who turned to the Play addicts Guide, there were 9 pst. who had problems with bingo vending machines. We saw that number doubled in 2009. It was because the old vending machines were banned, and then we saw that these players went over to these vending machines. And we can't ignore the social problems these games create. We know that the automatic revenue goes for a lot of good purposes, but I think the goal doesn't sanctify the means here. We can't let volunteer teams and organizations, who never have such good intentions, receive money that way. That is why I think regulation is right in this area, and I strongly disagree with the policy of the Progress Party here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2559	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4797]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2575	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2584	Last week we dealt with plans for the development and operation of the Ecofiche South. There was too much opportunity for many of us to reflect on the major ring-effects of the petroleum industry in Norway — and not least the impact of local ring-effects on cities and regions in our country. As a rogalending, it is difficult for me to exaggerate the effect of Stavanger becoming a land base for Ekofisk 40 years ago. Not only for us in Rogaland, but too many in the whole country, it has given the roof over the head and food on the table. Petroleum activities in Norway are far from complete. For the Workers' Party, it is important that oil and gas activities in Norway provide ring-effects both nationally and regionally. For us, this is particularly important now that the petroleum activity is moving northwards. The whole country will take part in the wealth and opportunities of the industry. There shall be no more than a brief look at cities such as Kristiansund and Hammerfest in order to understand how much oil and gas activities can mean for the community. The large discovery in the Skrugard field gives rise to optimism for new, large findings in North Norway. Tomorrow we will be dealing with the management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten in Stortinget, which will open up more exploration activities in the northern regions. For me, it is important to stress that local ring effects are a prerequisite for a successful investment in oil and gas in the north. In Norway, we have an active management of the petroleum resources, starting with the fact that the resources belong to the whole country, and that the profits of the business will fall to the people of this country. It also requires us to build expertise across the country, so that Norwegian actors get a large part of the contracts as subcontractors and service providers. That's what we've done. Norway currently has a world-leading sub-sector for both oil and gas. Prop. 102 L for 2010–2011 involves a change in the petroleum law § 10-2. Following a review of the Petroleum Act, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has concluded that the wording of Section 10-2 does not comply with our obligations under the EEA Agreement. In discussions with ESA, on the other hand, the practice of the law, that is, the practice that has given us the ringing effects we see today, has not been contrary to the EEA Agreement. That is why, with the agreement of ESA, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has drawn up a proposal for a new legal text which respects current practice and which is in line with our European commitments. What matters to the red-green government – and to the vast majority – is that it is confirmed. The new wording will preserve current practice better than the previous wording did. I would like to stress that there has been, and is, broad political agreement on today's practice, and that there is therefore a broad consensus on this change in the petroleum law. The minority is given arguments for their vision. But I therefore recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2601	The background to the legislative change we are handling is, as mentioned earlier, that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has assessed the petroleum law in relation to Norway’s EEA obligations and found that the Norwegian legal text does not fully comply with the EEA Agreement. On the other hand, the proposal refers to the fact that the Norwegian practice of the legal text, i.e. the Norwegian administration attached to the petroleum industry, does not conflict with the EEA Agreement. Following dialogue with ESA, the government has put forward proposals for changes to the legal text that, according to the Ministry, make it consistent with current practice and with the obligations we have under the EEA Agreement. In the proposition, the government says that the legal entities must ensure that they are represented so that they can make informed decisions about the petroleum industry in Norway at any time, and that it will depend on the size, scale and complexity of the activity of the individual legal entity, including whether it is an operator or not. This, together with the assurance given by the government that this will not change what is Norwegian practice today, is an important premise for the Central Party in this matter. The Committee has organised a hearing and received views from a number of stakeholders. Among others, Professor of European Law at the University of Oslo, Finn Arnesen, points out that the legal wording of the current law was so open in breach of the EEA Agreement that it should be clear to the politicians at the time of the conclusion of the agreement that the law would not be enforceable without conflicting with the obligations of the EEA Agreement. Nor from any other point of view did anything come up that would allow you to stick to today's legal text without conflicting with the EEA Agreement. The centre party is against the EEA Agreement, and our alternative is to the European Union through a free trade agreement. There's something we've been raising up before, so that's everybody in this room who knows about it. We pointed out at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, precisely to the extent of the agreement, and to the dynamics of the EEA Agreement, which we see – over and over again – as the agreement becomes more and more extensive. The policy objectives for the petroleum industry to have a ring-fenced effect in the form of economic activity and employment are established. There is no doubt that the EEA Agreement limits Norwegian powers of government in this area as well. We assume that the decision we are making today does not change the practice that we have incorporated into Norwegian administration. There are many reasons why a decentralised base and operating structure and the representation of the companies in Norway are being maintained, not least in terms of health, environment and safety that one should be close to these activities. Nevertheless, I would remind you that regional policy concerns, or other considerations based on policy and ideology, do not have the same authority in this area – as in many other areas after the EEA Agreement was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2618	First of all, the petroleum industry is important for Norway. It is important because it creates many jobs — many well-paid jobs — it generates wealth, it generates technology development and drives the development of other businesses in Norway. All of this is good. These are values that are created in addition to the energy content of the oil itself. That's why it's good that this industry makes sure that this happens in Norway, rather than just importing foreign companies that do the job for us, and that also run away with all the knowledge and business development on their own. It is important that we continue to develop the oil industry and use it to develop Norwegian business. It is also important for local activity to ensure local ring-effects, in order to ensure local acceptance of the industry. In particular, we have seen this in the debate on oil extraction in Lofoten, the West Sea and Senja, where local forces – whether for or against oil and gas extraction – require local ring-effects in order to accept oil activity off the coast. I note that ESA says that the practice that Norway has had in recent years is fine, but that the law is not in line with practice. Then it's natural to change the law. Because once the practice has been as it is, we have to interpret it as if people actually believe that this is how it should be done. Then it is not unnatural for one to correct the law. But that's the way this happens, which is so completely horrific, and which I can't understand that the government can stand behind and just say that you should put it a little bit differently. For it is an honesty in the letter that was sent to the civil ombudsman, who lacks similarity. But the government has not regretted that the content was as it was, just the wording, and it goes on that the government believes that it was sensitive to discuss this. The big thing shouldn't know about it because it could create an unfortunate political situation. So it had nothing to do with national security and such things, with what it had to do with what was appropriate for the government in relation to a political debate. It is possible that the centre party thought it was a bit sensitive to show that ESA overruns them in an area where they themselves like to mark that they should have control, it is possible that it is sensitive because it reveals that the government often boasts of a force of action that it obviously does not have, and which it has not practiced. For the law has opened up a practice of significant local governance, but such a practice has thus not been followed. It's kind of sensitive when it comes out clearly. But what worries me is that this is not the first time I experience that it happens. Last year, we had a very heavy round about the same time of the year with the Mongstad case, where it also turned out that there had been a bit of cooking lemon – if we can say so – in the information flow to Stortinget. Gassnova had recommended for three years that only one should have a full-scale CO2 clean-up project, not two, but the Stortinget was never informed about it. A number of reports had been received from Gassnova to the government recommending and suggesting a postponement of the cleaning project. The size was never informed about it, probably because it was also quite sensitive to another debate. But it's not the government's privilege to hold such things back for the Storting just because it's sensitive and uncomfortable to discuss. It's actually an obligation to inform the Storting properly. We shouldn't have to read about this through the Evening Post, and get access to the letter through the Evening Post. I find that completely unacceptable. So the government has done what he should do, that's to apologize for the use of words and things like that, but I expect a slightly stronger apology. I expect a settlement to be made with the culture that is in OED relative to not promoting the whole truth when it's comfortable for a government and for a department. And we need to know that we have access to that information. This matter could initially probably go through the Storting without much debate if it had been presented and discussed in the usual way. But because this secret is happening, I'm becoming extra suspicious. We have now had consultation in the committee, and that was useful and necessary. But it must not be that on every occasion in the future we are now going to sit and wonder if we have received the entire information package that we should have. How many actors outside the system should we contact to make sure? It's very hard for us to work, and it's also a bad way to work with regard to trust between big business and government. I hope the Council of State takes the signals and makes sure that this does not happen again. I did not think this would happen again after the Mongstad case, but now it has also happened in this case. I hope for a new state council with new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2645	Many countries that themselves have oil and gas deposits want to learn from Norway. It's about how we manage our resources, and it's about how Norway has been able to build strong clusters of subcontractors of this industry over its forty-year history of petroleum. An important objective of our petroleum activity has been to benefit all of Norway. It does the revenue from this activity. It does industry around the country, and we can count in one-stop count those municipalities in Norway that do not have residents who are employed in this industry. Norwegian pedestal is the largest offshore market in the world, and this means a lot to the emergence of the supplier industry. Furthermore, Norwegian cap has provided this industry with an important springboard to take market shares elsewhere in the world. In fact, the supply industry of the oil and gas industry has now become Norway’s second largest export industry in value, i.e. more than one process industry, larger than sea food and larger than travel. The proposed amendments to the petroleum law which are dealt with in this matter have created a debate. Many fear that governments' desire for local and regional ring-effects should be weakened. The ESA's requirement that the wording of our petroleum law should be amended as regards the requirements for the organisation and management of the petroleum activity, bases, etc., has been met by this proposed legislative amendment, which is also supported by the Right. The changes will make the law more in line with what is established in Norway, and as a broad political majority stands behind it, while at the same time respecting our obligations under the EEA Agreement. At the hearing, organised by the Energy and Environment Committee on 7 June of this year, it was broadly agreed that the requirements of ESA were understandable in the light of the EEA Agreement and that the changes would have little impact on practices in Norway. In many cases, the focus on health, environment and safety on the pedestal suggests a local presence. Furthermore, companies themselves often have a self-interest and economic interest in just local presence; in most cases it will be about efficiency. Organisation and base location requirements may be imposed in the context of health, environment and safety, as well as for actors to be able to take so-called informed decisions. This has also been done through our forty-year history of petroleum in dialogue between authorities, companies and operators. The provisions of the law, after the hearing on this matter, have hardly ever been in use. It shows a constructive attitude of the different parties, and we must expect it to continue regardless of whether the wording of the Petroleum Act changes anything. This case has not been at the hearing, and the right is among the parties that are skeptical about this. It is important to seek alternative views to which a hearing would have invited. Unfortunately, this, and the fact that ESA's opening letter was excluded from the public, has been an embarrassing procedure by the Council of State and his department. I support the criticism that was also made by the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen in relation to the adverse effects of such a process. By exempting the letter of opening from the public light, a very special form of proceedings is introduced, which I hope we will not see again. The right is concerned that several parts of the country will further develop their industrial clusters and create exciting jobs locally. That's why we have, among other things, have been aware that we want an impact assessment and the opening of the Lofoten and Vestralen areas. This is a good example of how we can create activity in an area of the country that is affected by population decline. That is why the Right has proposed, inter alia: an infrastructure fund of 5 billion. kr to Lofoten and the West eel areas if oil and gas operations are opened here and, further, in the current year's budget, a budget of 200 million. kr to stimulate the development of skills and suppliers, precisely to ensure that a petroleum activity has good regional and local ring-effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2668	The protection of the economic interests of their own countries — and in the field of industrial policy — has been a long way off in the European context, and since, among other things, Ireland and Iceland met the wall as deregulated paradises, it will continue to protect their own interests by many stamped as petty nationalism or the process of thinking of the Septuagint that stands in the way of a free and open Europe. But in many cases, the right of self-determination is precisely about openness and freedom. It's e.g. Clearly, Norway’s tight grip on petroleum policy from day one has been one of the most crucial factors for Norway to manage its large oil deposits with such success, with the technological development and all the tens of thousands of jobs that the industry has provided domestically. It is not about protectionism in the negative sense, but about the fact that when a harvester of a non-renewable resource, it should be under strict control and there should be something that benefits the population locally. It is – as I also talked about in the debate last week – not an international one. There are many examples that the opposite has happened. This has been the subject of a broad political agreement in Norway, and it has created a petroleum sector which, rightly, is a model for other countries in many areas. A prerequisite for this, as I said, has been to keep national control of these resources. That is why I think it was very wise to conduct a hearing on this matter last week. The committee witnessed a very strong commitment from many parties, and a widespread scepticism, even in those parts of the oil industry I rarely can be said to be so close to business. At the same time, many stakeholders, in particular the Industry Energy Association, said that they chose to take the word of the Land Association of the Oil Industry, the OLF, when they said that this proposed amendment would not have an impact on working conditions and conditions on Norwegian soil – and remember these promises well. That's what I'm going to end up with. Processes in which Norway has to adapt its legislation in the name of the market are not something that initially arouses my enthusiasm. It is a position I share with the overwhelming majority of the country’s population who are – and have been – EU opponents for a long time. In the discussion about the petroleum law, it is by no means strange that many become very engaged. So to be completely honest, it's not with the greatest enthusiasm I'm voting for this amendment of the law today. The few think that the government would take the trouble to propose such a change itself, and many have – rightly – asked why ESA did not deal with the old legal formulation before now. However, the government has taken this process as far as it can to find an amicable solution without bringing a case against Norway, and the government also points out that this legislative change is primarily a textual change. It does not change the practice. It is underlined in the new legal text that the government can impose specific requirements on the rights holder’s organisation in Norway. And the ministry can impose the use of specific bases for both resource management and health, environment and safety. It's very important that these clarifications are made. So today I choose to take the government by the word when it says that this is a change in line with current practice, and I choose to take the Land Association of the Oil Industry on the word when they say that this will not force changes in the Norwegian oil industry to harm workers, employment and health, the environment and safety. We have to keep track of that. Finally, I would like to add that part of this debate belongs to the early 1990s, when the various parties took a position on EEA membership. It is one of the things that some of the parties that today are voting against this proposed amendment of the law should notice. This was something that warned against all the way, and it is also the basis for my view of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2685	This is a matter that had deserved far more attention than it has received. Rarely has there been a more vigorous attempt by a government to reduce, obscure and conceal a politically sensitive matter than what we have witnessed in this matter. On 17 September 2008, the government launched a dialogue with ESA on the wording of Section 10-2 of the Petroleum Act. The disagreement arose as to whether Norway has the opportunity to impose requirements on the organisation and use of bases by rightholders in Norway. The current legal text states that rightholders shall have an organisation capable of directing the petroleum activity independently from Norway and that the petroleum activity shall be operated from base in Norway. The dialogue with ESA took place for one and a half years without results and ended with an opening letter from ESA in January 2010 which concluded that the Act on Petroleum § 10-2 is a breach of Article 31 and Article 36 of the EEA Agreement. Since January 2010, the government has been quietly negotiating a solution with ESA that eliminates virtually all requirements for the organisation and use of bases by rightholders in Norway. The government has not bothered to inform the Storting about ESA’s opening letter, as it has established practice since the 1990s. After the negotiations were concluded, the government has failed to send the case to the hearing as required by the Administration Act and the investigation manual. Why? In a letter to Stortinget, the Council of State explained that the reason why Stortinget was not informed about the letter of opening was that the government had the intention to keep the legal text of the day. The explanation that the case was not sent to the hearing afterwards is that one had agreed with ESA on a wording which it was not possible to change through a consultation round. The ministry's correspondence with the civil ombudsman, who went on at the same time as the case was being dealt with here in Stortinget, shows another reality. The Minister’s letter of 11 May 2011 gives the following reasons for refusal of transparency: ‘Surveillance of that ESA letter could lead to a press review of the case or a publicity from others, and this was politically important for the government to prevent. This was not at all important for the groups on the Stortinget, which would easily get the wrong impression of the case if it was misinterpreted publicly or uncritically before agreement was reached between the Ministry and ESA on a solution.» The Christian People's Party reacted to this matter in good time before there was a matter in the media. Our proposal then was that the matter should be sent to the general hearing, and this was submitted as a note to the committee one week before the evening post published the department's correspondence with the civil ombudsman. At that time we had a suspicion that the matter was more important than it was produced by the government, which we have clearly marked in retrospect. If it is really the case that the proposed legislative changes are merely an adaptation to current practice and that they are so insignificant that the Storting and the public did not need to be involved in the process, why has the government negotiated with ESA for two and a half years on the matter? Why was it then the government's intention to keep today's wording after the opening letter from ESA was received in January 2010, one and a half years after the dialogue with ESA started? And then why did the department as they did to the civil ombudsman, if this wasn't so important? The matter speaks for itself. I have rarely experienced similar embarrassing explanation in a matter that has been promoted for treatment in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party takes this seriously. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposed changes may result in significantly less local ring-effects of future increased petroleum activity in North Norway. Norway is now facing a new era of oil and gas extraction. The centre of gravity moves northwards. We're going to have oil and gas extraction in North Norway. The people of the north have high expectations of the activities and jobs on land. The government's broad proposals may put an end to this. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2712	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2715	In April the Government submitted proposals for amendments to the Petroleum Act after ESA pointed out that the wording of the Act was not in accordance with the rules of the EEA Agreement on the right of establishment and the right to provide services in Norway, as well as the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of nationality. There has been a recent debate on this proposal, which has not been the subject of a general consultation. The reason why the proposal has not been consulted is that the proposal is justified in the ESA’s objection and is the result of a debate. Therefore, our assessment was that for this reason there was no room for changes to the legislative amendment proposal through a consultation round, and a public consultation was considered by the ministry to be ‘apparently unnecessary’, as required by the investigation instruction. As can be seen from paragraph 5 of the Proposition, the proposal for new provisions in the first and second paragraphs of Section 10-2 of the Petroleum Act reflects the practice followed today. This is important for me to stress. I would also add that ESA has not objected to the way regulations are practised. The amendment of the law shall ensure better consistency between the wording of the law, the principles of the EEA Agreement and our practice. With the changes, we will have exactly the same opportunities to facilitate activity and jobs on land that we have had so far, including in our northernmost parts of the country. The legislative changes will better reflect the practices established, a practice of which there is broad political consensus. Since the beginning of more than 40 years, the oil and gas industry has created values for about 8 000 billion. kr. In this context, it is equally important to create jobs and ringing effects on land as incomes in dollars and ears. In Norway, about 43 000 people have work directly related to the oil and gas industry. More than 200000 persons are directly or indirectly employed in connection with activity on the base. The search, development of findings, operation and production have led to the creation of jobs throughout the country. Industry and government have played an important role centrally and locally. It is very important that there is no doubt as to whether our legislation on organisation and use of bases is in line with our obligations under the EEA Agreement, but proposed changes will make the law and our practice of it more robust. The development of the Snow White field started in 2002. In most cases, 2 500 persons were employed during construction until the start of production in 2007. The operation of Snow White has created about 400 jobs, with three-quarters of the employees recruited in North Norway. Nearer 3 billion. kr of the same deliveries until the field comes from companies registered in North Norway. Development has contributed to the development of competence in the region, with positive effects on other industries as well. Through the Goliath field, we see an expansion that contributes to the development of the petroleum industry in the region. Goliath is further based on strengthening the business and workplaces established in the context of Snow White. The examples illustrate today's practice, which I think is all reason to be satisfied with. The proposed amendment to the Petroleum Law does not alter this. I am concerned that, through its petroleum activity, the companies contribute to local ring effects. These include: the importance of facilitating the qualification of relevant/regional suppliers and of facilitating the participation of enterprises from the national part of the country in tendering procedures. An efficient base and operational structure contributes to local and regional development of nutrition and competence. These are the conditions that will be fully illuminated in the forthcoming notification of petroleum. I am sure that petroleum activity will continue to contribute to many jobs throughout the country, for the benefit of the entire population. There has been a lot of focus on the process in this case. It is extremely important that the Storting should be able to rely on a sound decision-making basis where all relevant information is in the case and in the manufacture. That is what I believe to be available here. It shall not be necessary to question whether it has been done. My experience is that it's not possible to trick the Storting into adopting some of the world's things. I have far too much respect for this House. We have noted the Civil Ombudsman's reasons for the letter of opening, and that it is not public. Of course, we'll take note of that. It will also guide our further practice. In conclusion, I also want to make it clear that the self-criticism we have taken in relation to the letter to the Civil Ombudsman deals with both the wording and the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2739	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2742	I hope it is right that the government is unable to trick the Storting into adopting anything. I'm not always sure. At least I get worried when it feels as if the government has tried. You shouldn't do that either. When this letter to the civil ombudsman states that the matter is particularly politically sensitive to the government, while at the same time the government on all other occasions after it became a public debate, said that the practice stands firm, that it is only the law that changes – I cannot quite see what should be so politically sensitive. What made the government go to the step of saying that this was politically sensitive – therefore the party groups should not be exposed to media publicity, because then the party groups could get a wrong experience of the matter – when it's as simple as the council claims, that this is just about adapting the law to the practice? Where's the sensitivity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2747	As I concluded by saying, in the case of the letter that went from my department, which I am responsible for, and which has the content it has, the letter that we have taken for granted is self-criticism. It is not just about the wording, as Mr Solvik-Olsen suggested, but it is also about content. That makes me not accept the premise in his question itself. Of course, it is not that we should keep information away from the Storting because they are perceived as politically sensitive. The size shall have a full and complete decision-making basis and shall be able to rely on the existence of the department at all times. What was our concern about the decision to keep the opening letter from ESA from the public was to get as good a room for negotiation with ESA as possible in order to get the best possible result and the best legal text possible. I believe so, with all due respect, that we have made it clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2752	Since the late 1990s, there has been widespread practice of providing the Storting with access to ESA documents of the type represented by this letter of formal notice. The fact that you want to have a good negotiating position versus ESA is not something that is special in this case. There are likely to be other cases as well, but this has not meant that ministries and state councils have chosen to hold letters of opening except for the public. My question to the Council of State, which also concluded that it was clearly unnecessary to consult the case, in addition to keeping this letter of opening away from the public, is: When the Council of State sees all these reactions that have come later, can he see that the assessment made in the department was a misassessment of the public and the ESA's opening letter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2759	It is true that there has been practice, but not a practice without exception, that opening letters from ESA have been published. It is also the case that, through the Rules of Procedure, comments and established practices, the Storting lays the groundwork and defines the rules that apply at all times. As far as the future is concerned, my department and I have announced that we will take note of the letters and decisions of the civil ombudsmen, and that it will guide the work that we will do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2764	For two and a half years, the government of the Ministry of Oil and Energy has been negotiating with ESA on a matter that is said to the Stortinget only as an adaptation to current practice. The change is so insignificant that you didn't have to involve the Storting at an earlier time, nor the public. This isn't easy to understand. Because if you spend two and a half years of working time, you would think that there were important issues you negotiated, that this is not just an adaptation to current practice. The Council of State said in its statement that the case was not sent to the hearing because there was no room for change via a hearing. It's kind of special about the Consultancy Institute. My question is: is this really an adaptation to current practice, with two and a half years of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2771	The fact that one thing takes two and a half years doesn't have to be an expression that you've spent all your time and energy on this issue for the whole period. But it has been necessary to make good use of time to come up with a formulation that we think is comprehensive, a formulation that now makes us legalize what is current practice. So my answer is: Yes, the proposal for legislative change that is now available is in line with current practice; it will ensure a law that is in line with the EEA Agreement. It will give legitimacy to that law and will provide a good basis for decision for both the Storting and the government when we are about to start what I think we all agree on, namely new activity, especially northwards. And of course, that activity is going to have ring-fenced effects on land, as we've seen in other parts of the country before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2776	The way in which the Ministry of State refers to the relationship with the Stortinge in the letter to the Supervisory Board of Stortinge, the Civil Ombudsman, on 11 May of this year, has had strong reactions, and that is well justified. Therefore, it is good that the Council of State now says that the Department takes self-criticism both in form and in content in that letter. He also has to do that, because there is a response from the civil ombudsman who is represented in the vote. There the civil ombudsman says that after the wording ‘does not allow the provision to refuse transparency in the light of such considerations’ — i.e. considerations referred to by the Ministry. «A practice similar to that of the Ministry must also be regarded as contrary to the fundamentals of transparency.» It means in plain terms that this is a crime. On that basis, I would like to give the Council of State the opportunity to complain about the form and content of this letter to Stortinget. Will the Council of State do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2791	As I have said several times before and from this pulpit right now, the department and I take self-criticism both in the form of the letter and in the contents of the letter. Then I hope that's enough for the representative Høybråten. But I would like to stress that our obligation to provide information to the Stortinget, the decision-making basis presented here by Stortinget, is complete, satisfactory, as it should be when a government and a department make a billing proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2796	One of the most important values of praise that is often highlighted in the assessment of democracy in Norway is the broad consultation round that is always taken in Norway before decisions are taken in the national Parliament, so that alternative views are put in place. The chosen government to do nothing about this. That meant, I think, that initially there was not a good enough basis for decision. The worst part of this has been the letter that was sent. I understand that the Council of State is withdrawing from the content of that letter to the Civil Ombudsman, because that letter gives insight into a way of thinking that is very far from what is expected to be the thinking of a Norwegian government in relation to the Great Britain's form of work. Then is my question to the Council of State: will the Council of State do something to ensure that the government is able to have a different political mindset than to keep something secret because there could be a political debate about a matter before the government has taken a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2805	Everything that leaves my department is also my responsibility. It simply means – at least in my head – that if there are things that need to be changed, it is my responsibility to see that happens. We have announced that the civil ombudsman's letter will be decisive for our practice in the future as well. As regards the point of consultation, my department conducted negotiations with ESA over a long period of time. We reached a negotiating result. It was a result that we had spent a long time getting there, and it represents a kind of fascist that we don't brief the Storting about, but that we are now inviting the Storting to adopt. This will be the case – and the representative of Solberg knows for sure – that a successful negotiated outcome is very difficult to change, including through a consultation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2813	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2818	The debate on this matter has been quite extensive over the past few weeks, and I think that is actually good. I say this because it has been particularly concerned with the presence in the areas where new and future petroleum activity is going to take place. Let's hope that we get the same positive debate when we're going to adopt an increased petroleum activity in the north. I have noticed that in the debate on changes to the petroleum law, it has been suggested that the oil and energy minister should have deliberately tried to hide something in the matter. This is a description of reality I can't share in any way. Here the department has been involved in a negotiation process with ESA on the legal text, with the aim of keeping the legal text unchanged. Everyone understands that we are not served with a large media drive during such negotiations. Therefore, I understand that this has been difficult, that it could not have been done in any other way, and that no one has had a desire to hold anything back for the Storting. I have noticed that ESA has called for changes to the legal text, but that they have not objected to how Norway has practised the provision. This must mean that we can keep our practices as yet. I think the Council of State has explained this well today. I have a great deal of understanding of the objections to the amendment of the law that have come from the hearing bodies of the Committee, including: from the county council of Troms, but I don't think a postponement of the case will serve any better solution – perhaps vice versa. In any case, it will be the will for petroleum activity and the practical implementation that must be the most important for us to have the desired regional ring-effects. Companies must understand that without presence and without contributing to regional ring-effects, they will not be heard by the inhabitants for their wishes for new areas for exploration and exploitation. No law can clarify this more clearly. People are concerned with regional ring-effects, and this view can be crucial for access in new areas. Let me finally express a little wonder at those who in this case show a great commitment to the regional ring-effects of increased petroleum activity in the north, but which are at the same time towards increased activity for this industry in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2831	The proposal under consideration may raise fundamental questions about the policy of the oil and gas sector. The petroleum industry, which is the most important value maker and industry in the country, currently employs nearly 250 000 people directly and indirectly throughout the country. The fact that industry is important, means that society has a great deal of commitment to issues that concern just this industry. It is in the best interests of industry, its industry, our peoples and society, or changes in or proposals for new laws and regulations relating to precisely this industry are being thoroughly discussed in the public space. It is therefore very unfortunate that the cases have not been sent on the phone until the matter was sent to Stortinget. The Hearing Round is important in a democratic process in order for the Storting to have alternative information, assessments and views from all parties who wish to express themselves, including from a professional environment independent of the Ministry. This industry creates significant ringing and value creation in large parts of Norway. This is often a provision for a positive attitude to the opening of new and prospective areas for the petroleum industry. These effects have a broad impact field and relate to the research institute, supplier industry, shipyards and fleets, many of which are today among the most prominent technological and industrial sectors, including internationally. It is therefore understandable that one in several of these environments would like to take care of national requirements. For current future parts of the country of petroleum activity, too, this will be decisive for a positive approach to opening new areas. The current formulations of the Petroleum Law § 10-2 ask for clear mechanisms to ensure that Norway as a nation can shape the petroleum industry and that one that can contribute to the creation of regional and local ring-effects based on sound commercial competition such as price, quality and good HMS basis. Then it's very important that the skills are built where he's wanted and he's hungry, not least in North Norway. If this is not possible, the proposed change in petroleum law with weak organisational, management and location requirements for bases could result in less local and regional ringing effects of hopefully future petroleum activity in North Norway. It is therefore inconceivable that this case has not been heard, so that this adaptation to the EEA law was assessed and accepted, as it should have been. In particular, this is bad when the Council of State comes from the Central Party, which should have all the interests of putting District Norway and the business community there to deal with the new challenges of law enforcement. The party of progress believes that the correspondence between the OED and the civil ombudsman clearly shows that the government has deliberately tried to keep matters hidden from the public on the basis of domestic policy considerations, in order to avoid having a public debate. Such a lack of openness is totally unacceptable, and there's every reason to ask whether this represents an exception, or whether that is the rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2850	Before I say more about the process, two words about the content of the matter: this is about a government that without further fighting with Brussels gives away a district policy tool that we have had in the district policy toolbox for years – used or not used, it has been there. As of today, it is no longer there, and without this government having opted for greater transparency in European policy, it has exercised that openness in this matter. On the contrary, they have tried to cover the matter and hide it. That's not good. The council says he takes self-criticism in both form and content in relation to this letter. I understand that that's how far we're going in the direction of a complaint here in the hall, I'm not going to push it any more. This means, however, that the letter in established political terms can be characterised as a mistake. What I disagree with, however, is that the information to Stortinget has been good enough. The proposition was no better than that the committee wanted to have an open hearing on the matter, in addition to informing the matter. But not enough – contrary to common practice, neither the Council of State nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs have come to the bodies of the Stortinge or to the European Committee of the Stortinge and informed about the negotiations that were taking place, and the opening letter that had arrived. It usually happens in all such cases. If you can't do it in an open forum, you do it in the bodies of the Storting. What's the situation here is that the Council of State uses the fact that you've been fighting for two years for the status quo, to keep the law of the day, as a reason why you haven't come to the Stortinget. Then, as a member of the European Committee, I must be allowed to inform that in most of the cases on which the European Committee is briefed, from the professional councils or from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that is exactly the case. Norway is fighting to keep its legislation, its legislation, its special arrangements. Otherwise, it is usually not a matter of adapting Norwegian legislation to EU legislation. Therefore, this justification does not at all, either factually or as any reason to have kept this matter from the organs of the Storting. I hope that the Council of State has a better reason here today than the one he has expressed in letters to the Committee, because it is totally unsustainable and contrary to what is common practice in these kinds of matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2863	This has been a comprehensive and eventually also difficult matter, and it is good to be involved in such important matters. This should almost only be lacking because it is a major national matter, especially in relation to the debate on presence and not least in relation to ring-effects. These include: has created the debate, is that the government is proposing an amendment to the Petroleum Act in order to ensure better consistency between the wording of the Act and the obligations of Norway under the EEA Agreement. That's how we have an EEA agreement, and we have to deal with it. In addition, the Act §10-2 through the change will also better reflect the practice established in accordance with the provision of which there is broad political agreement. We also believe that the new provision reflects established practices better. In particular, one can look at the experience of fields such as: Scurvy, Snow White and Goliath, which show that new expansions outside North Norway provide new jobs and increased activity. We've seen the results of that. New findings, active exploration and allocation policies and the possibility of opening up new areas create optimism and expectations for ring-fences in the region. That is why I must deeply regret the black paint that the Christian People's Party is in favour of. In this situation, it is very important that there is no doubt as to whether Norway’s legislation on organisational and base requirements is in line with its obligations under the EEA Agreement. I – and we – believe that the proposed change will make the legislation and the practice of Norway more robust. Companies both understand and have to understand that without regional ring-effects they will not be heard for activity in these areas either. It's been said many times from this pulpit, and it can probably be repeated many times as well. So finally, it's not every day I quote from a professor, but I'll do it in this context. In Nordlys on 1 June this year, adviser and professor at the University of Nordland Johan Petter Barlindhaug said, among others. the following – I'm just going to take a short excerpt from what he said, and I think you should listen to it and hear what he said: ‘Those who want to be heavy players must establish themselves here. You cannot understand darkness, ice and fishermen from an office in London." I think that was very well said, and I think he's quite right in what he says.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2885	Over 17 years of the EEA Agreement, the Norwegian political authorities have maintained that Section 10-2 of the Petroleum Act and its management and base requirements can be maintained and are in line with our international obligations under the EEA Agreement. This is a strong and important position. The Petroleum Act Section 10-2 sets out requirements for management and bases. The management requirement may be waived on a case-by-case basis, which has been the content of the paragraph since the derogation was introduced in 2003. Today's paragraph ensures that management is still required, while allowing for the opening of exemptions. Derogations from the management requirement are therefore in line with the paragraph and do not involve a practice which requires the amendment of the paragraph. If the ESA or the companies consider that Norwegian law and its practice are not in line with our obligations under the EEA Agreement, they may bring the matter before the EFTA Court. This has still not happened – more than 17 years after the entry into force of the EEA Agreement, and 16 years after the concession directive was implemented in Norwegian law. In other words, the burden of proof after the current section 10-2 of the Petroleum Act lies on ESA and on the companies. That should still be the case. Through the historical fact, the many opinions expressed by EEA members on the position of the Petroleum Act in the EEA Agreement and the examination of this case, it is not established that the new wording of Section 10-2 presented is the only possible wording that could fulfil our obligations under the EEA Agreement. This speaks for the Norwegian authorities to allow more time in this case and, among other things, to do so. it sees in conjunction with the notified petroleum message. Such a process will also allow the Storting to go further into whether current practice is in fact in line with the new paragraph, especially in cases where Norwegian authorities and companies have divergent views on management and bases. On the basis of this, it would also be wise to resume negotiations with ESA on requirements for the organisation and management of rightholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2896	In northern Norway, a number of jobs, large parts of industries and much of their well-being have long been linked to the natural resources that exist there – fisheries and aquaculture, to mention one of the most important things. Now, when we see that even the petroleum activity is moving northwards, it creates a huge expectation in North Norway that the petroleum activity in the north will have the same ring-effects on land as the same activity in the south. Like the government, the Christian People's Party is committed to an active and targeted district and regional policy that contributes to precisely value creation, jobs and well-being where people live. The government has really raised the expectations that the petroleum industry will provide new, great opportunities in the northern regions. In the Nordgebietsstingen New building blocks in the north, they write the following: ‘The government is working to facilitate petroleum-based employment and value creation in North Norway. [[...]] In the long term, increased petroleum activity in the Barents Sea on the Norwegian and Russian sides could lead to the need for the location of shore-based support functions. It would therefore be useful to address the need for different alternative bases in East Finland. [[...]] It is true that this was the case when New building blocks in the north were written, but this will not necessarily be the case after today. For the matter we are now dealing with in Stortinget, the requirements of oil companies today to locate businesses and jobs in Norway will weaken. Such a deterioration could result in less local and regional ring-effects of a future increased petroleum activity in North Norway. So a little bit to the process. In a letter to the Civil Ombudsman dated 11 May of this year, to which reference has been made earlier, the Ministry of Oil and Energy writes: ‘Surveillance of that ESA letter could lead to a press review of the case or mention of it by others, and this was politically important for the government to prevent. This was not least important in view of the groups of parties on Stortinget, who would easily get a false impression of the case if it were misinterpreted or uncritically publicly referred to.’ It's so 'a barely breathable'. This case goes both across the government's ambition from Soria Moria for a clear and open European policy and government's ambitions to facilitate petroleum-based employment and value creation in North Norway. It is very surprising that the central party government, which is responsible for both regional and oil and energy policy, can then bend to those degrees of the EU and present such a change in law without as much as a sigh.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2915	It is not surprising that there is quite strong criticism in this matter here today. It must also be seen in the light of the fact that after six years of red-green government, the Storting has not yet received a petroleum message illustrating the ambitions in this field, which is to take advantage of the action space in the petroleum law, as a follow-up to other petroleum policies. I just want to say to the Council of State's ground crews here in Stortinget, who in many ways try to exonerate the miser, that part of those who talk hot about ring-effects will have an opportunity tomorrow when the management plan is being discussed, to give a well-founded yes to voting, and not to vote against the proposal that is being promoted. I am very pleased that we have a government council that is a lot more humble and takes self-criticism in this matter, where it is undeniable that you have not wanted to have an open communication with the Stortinget. At the same time, the Board of State's ground crews are struggling with the ESA's relations with Norway, but it does not want a process in which citizens and institutions in Norway affected by the Petroleum Act are given the opportunity to participate in a communication – a dialogue – around the Hearing Institute. In fact, the opposition parties had to force this forward in the committee. Nordic county councils have expressed their views on this process and have made important contributions. This is about the future of the petroleum nation of Norway. The Petroleum Act has a considerable scope for action. This is not just about the will of the companies, it is also about the ambitions of the authorities – the exercise of authority functions – as the business crawls northwards. It limits to total inactivity when we see how the exercise of authority is also followed up – or lack of follow-up – on this issue. This is a very big case that affects new parts of Norway, Coast Norway, and where it should be said that there is just a lack of the trouble of listening to what kind of impressions these are left with. The impression must not be that risks should shrink north and that value creation should continue in the south. Nor should it be believed that: yes, we are too ring-effects, we are in favour of changes in the petroleum law, but we are against petroleum activity in the north. This is not entirely a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2933	Oil activities and ring-fences in the north are a hot topic. It is an important topic, and it is a debate that will in many ways create new optimism, new industry, and it will provide a continent with new competences and enhance value creation. It is problematic when you sometimes experience that political priorities end up prioritising the red-green project and have to ignore everything else. It is regrettable that there is a suspicion that there is a lack of information here, and there is a suspicion that the possibility of creating local ring effects may have been weakened. The process that has been here is not lucky, and it has not contributed to creating too much optimism northwards. Attempts have been made in this room to link it to the EEA Agreement, the EU case, and to make a small rematch on this. Here it has been said from SV: what did we say? We need to be aware that national self-determination is, in fact, also largely about national procedures and the way in which we are able to make visible that what we are doing politically is going to make progress, and that it is going to provide security for economic development in the country. Trustworthiness at this point is important. In fact, credibility at this point is also about national self-determination. That's when you create a climate for good business development, and it might seem that the government has a job to do in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2944	The left will today vote for the proposed legislative changes and support them, but we want to make some comments because we are not represented in the committee. We will express our support for the opposition's comments on the handling of this matter. Firstly, we have rules for what should be sent to the hearing. The Council of State may have followed them here, but the point of a hearing is not just to change, it's also to illuminate. It would be completely pointless to organise hearings in the Storting during this majority government if the point was to influence and change, because here it's not going to change anything. In fact, however, the consultation and public debate have been a point of public change, and in this respect the hearing has also been important to be able to shed light on things that have not been illuminated in any other way. So I think that a majority government, in terms of these areas of transparency, related to publicity and consultation, should be extra cautious and extra open, not extra-blading and extra-neighbourly listening, as we perceive them here. I think it is particularly important for a majority government to try to seek more publicity and more transparency in the processes. It is also not the first time – to which the Council of State is well aware, as a former member of the Control Committee – that the Civil Ombudsman points out precisely these things. He's probably got a lot of work to do with turning culture around in his own department to make sure that these principles that are here related to transparency and debate are actually respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2954	I think it's great that by changing the petroleum law there are at least so many speakers here in this Chamber, because this is really a minor change, but we have had a good debate. I need to comment on some of the claims made in this debate. The representative Bendiks H. Arnesen says that he thinks it's strange that you put down so much commitment to ringing in the north, when you're at the same time against oil extraction in the north. If this claim is the coin of the signed and Christian People's Party, this is a completely wrong claim as to whether we want to have oil extraction in the north. The Christian People's Party is concerned with ring-effects, and we are concerned with moving oil and gas extractions in the north, but at the same time we say no to oil and gas extraction in the vulnerable areas of the north. But if we're going to move, if we're going to open up the Barents Sea, tomorrow's debate will show. The representative Stroem refers to the expansion of Skarv, Snow White and Goliath and the ring-effects that these expansions have produced in the north. It's precisely because it's within today's law. These expansions have taken place on the basis of current petroleum law. Therefore, it is irrelevant to provide these as examples of the changes we are discussing today. The Christian People's Party does not paint black in this matter, but we believe – and this has also emerged in the matter – that now there is health, environment and safety that is the only reason we can demand organisation or bases here in the country. The representative, Serigstad Valen, points out that the battle was in the 1990s, and I believe that it was the EEA agreement, the representative, Valen, for which it was intended. But it's like the Soria Moria statement says: ‘The main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are firmly established, including strong recognition of the United Nations and international law, membership of NATO, EEA Agreement [[...]] So the representative Valen and the Christian People's Party are completely consistent in this matter. What is perhaps most alarming is that state councillor Ola Borten Moe does not even have the support of his own party in this matter. When we hear from the representative Lundtigen's contributions, the representative Lundtigen argues exactly what the Christian People's Party is asking for, that this is not the only opportunity, but that we need to resume negotiations with ESA in order to find other opportunities to have base and to have organisations in Norway. This is kind of eye-catching. This was from the representative Lundtigen's comments on this matter, and it is worth noting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2974	First some closing notes related to the process. I note with great interest the debate that has been linked to it. I would like to say at least one thing, and that is that the Storting itself chooses to organise hearings on a proposal that the government is making, can hardly be called a wake-up call. That's what I would call part of the ordinary way of dealing with different proposals, and part of the Storting's obvious right to collect information from sources other than government. That it happens in this case, I have difficulty characterizing it as dramatic. When it comes to the issue of whether the European Commission should be involved, it is a discretionary assessment. Let me just say it like this: I think the arguments that have been put into the field by the representative Højbråten and what the minority in this room has written into the note form in the setting are relevant perceptions of how this kind of thing can be handled in the time that comes. So I would say that the option that we – my department and this government – have now conducted negotiations with ESA, presented this option to the Petroleum Act § 10-2 to Stortinget, is a significant process risk that could have ended up not having a petroleum paragraph at all. I think that would have been a significant step back, and would significantly reduce our ability to direct activity northwards. Then we'll be over for the future. This proposal states that we should be able to continue with what is established practice. We're going to have the same opportunities in the future that we've had in the past to create ringing effects on land. It is with great joy I notice the broad majority of all the parties of the Great Britain that the fantastic opportunity that now perhaps opens up in the north will be used to give ring-effects on land, to give our northernmost part of the country the same opportunities that you have experienced in the past. I can assure the representative of Kristiansen that there is a great commitment in my party, in the entire government apparatus, to get this in place, and look at the building blocks that have been put in place over the last three months, I think you will hardly find a single representative of Norwegian oil and gas industry that does not share the optimism and enthusiasm that I am now expressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e2985	I'm not going to extend this debate that much. When it comes to Christian People's Party and black paint, I believe that from what you have written in your remarks, you try to create pessimism. I get the point, because as the representative of the Christian People's Party said instead, it's actually that you don't want any activity in Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II. It's important that you look forward and don't try to puncture that balloon. But what also made me take the floor was something positive that at least appeared in the hearings. Then you might say it came from the OLF, but they confirm the following in their hearing on Prop. 102 L, amendments to the Petroleum Act, and I will refer it to this Assembly: The OLF supports the proposed amendment to the Petroleum Act and relies on ESA’s understanding of the law. And then they say the following: 1st@item: inlistbox The legislative proposal is continuing today's practice. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal will have no or no impact on petroleum activities in Norway. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal will not weaken the positive ring-effects of the petroleum industry, either locally, regionally or nationally. In this context, I actually trust OLF more than I trust KrF. I think it's important to get these things out, and that you also see the ringing effects that become of this business now, among other things. what I said in my previous post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3012	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4798]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3028	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3037	We are now going to deal with the issue of partial toll financing for Fosenpaket. Phosphorus packages are projects and measures that are part of the development of today's county road network on Fosenhalv Island in the South and North Trøndelag. Phosphorus packages are a priority in the county action programme. Phosphorus packages include 17 projects divided into three subpackages, with projects in order of priority. All projects are located in Fosenhalvøya, with the exception of the sub-project fv. 710 Ingdal–Valset, located in the municipality of Agdenes. Four projects are wholly or partly located in the Nord-Trøndelag. The rest is in the South-Trøndelag. The proposal for toll arrangements, to which it is a local policy commitment, provides for the financing of projects and actions within Sub-packages 1 and 2. The main road network on Fosen has a low standard. The roads are narrow and curved with low visibility and pass through local residential areas. Phosphorus packages will improve accessibility and road safety. The link between Fosen and Trondheim and internal communication on Fosen will be improved, which can facilitate positive regional development. The total estimated cost of projects and actions in Fosenpaket is about 1.7 billion. kr. The total estimated cost of subpackages 1 and 2 is approximately 1.3 billion. 2011-kronor. There is still uncertainty about the costs of several projects and actions, but there is flexibility in the toll package by allowing the scope of deployment to be assessed in-progress. If any of the projects are more expensive than expected, the lowest priority projects will be taken out of the package or the scope of the individual projects may be reduced. The funding of Fosenpaket is based on county funds and tolls. 75 pst. investment costs are to be financed by tolls. Toll collection is planned in the ferry connections Brekstad-Valset and Flek–Rørvik. In addition, a toll station will be established at fv. 715 at Krinsvatn. It has been suggested that the toll collection should start as soon as possible after the Storting has taken its decision today. It's been added up to two-way collection for 15 years. Traffickers who travel both internally on Fosen and between Fosen and Trondheim benefit from the expansion and are required to pay tolls. The majority of the committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, are behind the vote, where we join the proposal of the government on partial toll financing of the Fosenpakket. The Progress Party promotes its own proposal, which, not surprisingly, opposes toll financing, and proposes a different financing arrangement. I expect this to be justified by the party's representatives themselves during the debate. I am pleased that such a large majority of the parties are behind this project, and I would like to thank you for the fact that we have been given a quick examination in the committee in a smooth manner – and thus have a decision on this matter before the summer. On the Fosen they are eager to start the toll collection — thus ensuring an important part of the funding of the projects. On the Fosen they have been so eager to get started that they are already running some of the subprojects. The county authorities have taken the risk and started fv. 755 Lexvik-Vanvikan. Last Monday I myself was present at the plant start on fv. 715 Vanvikbakkene. I have even brought with me a piece of the cord that was cut on that plant opening. Here it says: 30-05-11-12. That means 30 May 2011 at 4 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox Now it's "Ei tim' tea" by'n. ‘Ei tim’ tea’ is the intention of the development projects and it is driving speed, accessibility and road safety that form the basis for the priorities. For me personally, it is a good thing to be rapporteur on this matter. In my former political life as County Council for Transport in Nord-Trøndelag, I attended the first meetings where this project was started. And it's gone relatively fast. The first meeting was in 2004, when the idea was launched at a meeting with the county councils. I was present at the first meeting of the Fosen Regional Council with the county councils. I also remember attending a road meeting at Fosen in 2005, where Per Sandberg, the newly elected head of the Transport and Communications Committee, was present. He said: Run on and make a toll request, I will vote against, but the result will be that you will get away! Since then, I have been a member of the board of the toll company «Fosenvegene AS – ein tim’ te’ city» until I became a big-time representative. In this case, as in many other cases, we see county municipalities that have really taken responsibility for the ways in which they were transferred responsibility after the administrative reform. We see offensive state politicians who are betting on road construction, using more money on these roads now than when the state itself was responsible. It is a great day for Fosen today when a large majority in the Grand Duchy is behind the local and regional political consensus on funding Fosenpaket. To say what it says on the string from the start of the plant last Monday: now it will be the ‘e-hour’ tea’ city!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3079	This is probably a toll case in the range of many. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party, which is an alternative proposal for the vote. The Progress Party is opposed to toll financing and will have State funding. I have neither flags nor banners with me, but I can agree with the rapporteur's description of the projects and underline, as she did, that it is an important package, and there are many important projects, which will provide better traffic prosperity and safety and better connection to Trondheim. I am not sure that the description that you are so eager to get started with toll collection is correct, but you are eager to get a new road, and you have taken on board that this government is cultivating the principle of extortion and demanding that you pay local extra taxes to get away. Then again, I want to remind you that if we look at the current year and year last year, the state budgets for 2010 and 2011, it is actually that the revenue for the state in the two years is approximately 80 billion. kr. In fact, it's not just about political extortion, but it's at the limit of pettyness and worse than that you force local and local and regional drivers to pay for the state, when the state keeps the money itself. We are for the projects included in the package. We have noticed the information we have requested about the width of the road, that it varies in the development project. We believe that efforts should also be made to achieve, as far as possible, a consistent and equal standard of road transport in order to achieve the necessary capacity improvement for a long time to come. We have also noticed that we have another matter in which extra transport taxes through the use of tolls are penalised by the other parties, too, other than the government parties. It's the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, with the support of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who want extra transport taxes, which won't use a single penny of the 80 billion. kr that the government now receives extra in 2010 and 2011. Also in this case, we see that tolls are an extra expensive way of financing road development. Everyone knows that purchase on payment is expensive. The purchase of the road on payment is a mess. For the project, which costs approx. Bn. 1,3 kr, the drivers shall contribute barely 1 billion. NOK, but to cover the cost of financing, the drivers shall pay SEK 170 million. In addition, kr, and the collection costs over 50 million. kr. So the total bill for the cars is going to be 1,200 million. kr. This case is probably a county road project that needs to be submitted for treatment in Stortingen due to the use of tolls for funding. Toll financing is approved only by the Storting which can do, because such financing, as is justifiable, is regarded as an extra tax. In the opinion of the Progress Party, tolls are just extra taxation. The Progress Party therefore considers it important that such decisions be taken by the Stortinget – if they are to be taken. The Contracting Party does not wish to have such a right of taxation in respect of transport measures transferred to the counties. The party of progress has the same money as the other parties in this Chamber. The priority is different. On questions to the Minister for Transport on how to finance high-speed rail, high-speed trains, the answer is – and there is question No. 1304 – that it ‘will have to be mainly paid by the State’. Investment appropriations are between 350 billion. kr and 500 br. kr. The other parties in the Stortinget can therefore no longer disagree with the Progress Party that the national economy tolerates significant increases in investment in the transport sector without adversely affecting the press. We've clarified the importance. Now there is a discussion about priorities – which projects you want to spend the money on. The Progress Party is clear: we want to use the state's money for investment in modern, safe and environmentally friendly roads and also for upgrading today's rail system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3105	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3108	'Ei tim' te' by 'n' is the slogan for Fosenpaket. There's no immaterial slogan and content in that slogan. It's just that, with an hour's travel time, you're approaching what's acceptable to commuters. At an hour and a half, it's said, you're left in a category of commuting that's more prone to weekly commuting. That's why this is a very, very important project. It opens up mobility in this region, and, as we all know, it leads to an improvement in mobility towards new growth. So it's an important day for prosperity and road safety on the Fosen peninsula for people who live and work there and have worked for this for a long, long time, that we can now get a clear signal for the financing system – for that's what we're going to do – and for this package, and there's a whole 17 projects in these three subpackages. It's full local political support, except for the Progress Party, and it's set up to finance sub-packages 1 and 2 in this round. The rapporteur has now explained the matter carefully, so there is no reason to go into the details of this. From the Right we record that this package has made a priority between the projects. There are many considerations that have been taken into account, and there are reasonable considerations. It's both the communication between Fosen and Trondheim, which I was in at the beginning, it's the places for toll collection, it's of course the traffic base, it's traffic safety, which is not least important, and it's communication within Fosen. We stick to this way of doing it. Sub-package 3 projects also include the improvement of the roads on Fosen. But that this must be dealt with in a new round, we fully understand. Estimated cost of $1.7 billion. In total and that you will return to the projects along the way in relation to what you will be able to afford in case there are any increased costs, we think we are a sensible approach to which we are fully committed. This package is based on 25 pst. county funds, and 75 pst. the investment costs are based on user payments, or tolls. We see in the Right that it is quite natural to follow the wishes of the county council to treat it in the way that this is put up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3125	When I choose to take the word, it's really to emphasize that this is a happy day. It's a joyous day for the inhabitants of Fosen, and it's a joyous day for the South and North Tronde Teams, who have been on with a number of actors to find the solution that we're deciding on today. It has been well explained by the case rapporteur. It is, as has been said, a strong commitment to repairing road sections that are too bad today. With the 17 projects in the case, a number of narrow and curved points will be remedied. Bad curves will be removed, ensuring better visibility and a safer route through local residential areas. It's full support from the Center Party for both the funding and the arrangement around it. I see the potential that the Fosen peninsula now has in relation to being a commuting area to Trondheim. ‘Ein tim’ te city’ offers good opportunities to be a good working and service area, providing new opportunities for growth in the future. It's a pleasure day, and the Center Party is using this opportunity to send congratulations to the hospices and to the trousers, who are now getting even better roads in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3136	It's not that much to add to the fine article by case-speaker Susanne Bratli, but the Christian People's Party is fully committed to the setting and presented by the government. After the decision of the Transport Committee came, we could also read that in Trøndelag there were markings in the media that said: ‘Now the road network shall improve. A large fissure layer in the Fosen now seems to be able to achieve the goal of "Ei hour te city". So it is a spice layer with nine municipalities, two counties and also local businesses that have contributed to this. One can read that the daily leader Vidar Daltveit in Fosen Regional Council "had started the splicing layer", and that he smiled widely when he saw the setting. In the same way, I would like to bring out Knut Sundet, who has been the daily leader of the Fosenvegens, and, in fact, the case spokesperson, who has a past in this matter. This applies to accessibility, but also to road safety. The Christian People's Party has on several occasions asked for the case, and we are pleased that she is now coming. But I also want to show you what the advertisement says about the Fosenwegen. It says: ‘With this solution, we get good roads on the Fosen during a 15-year period. The alternative is to wait for government funds, which will improve roads by 2060 at the earliest.’ That ad also says the State Road Service. So what we can safely establish is that a broad majority in this room wants us to get on the road within 15 years, while the Progress Party wants the people on the Fosen to wait until 2060.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3159	The proposal for a Fosenpackakket has been given a broad, concise and precise connection to the settings of the Transport and Communications Committee. It's a pleasure. The foot has a low road standard. The development and improvement of road standards is not only important; it is almost a necessary commitment for regional development and growth in the future. All the roads included in the package are highways. The foot is a little bit of transit traffic. This is why most of the tolls are paid by local businesses and by local populations. The toll part of the package is relatively high – about 75 pst. All in all, these conditions mean that the community has taken on a significant task. I stress that there is broad consensus in both municipalities and in all municipalities on the content and priorities of Fosenpak. There is a clear strength to the package that it contains a clear ranking and priority of the 17 projects. This will make it easier to manage any intrusive conditions that may arise. In this way, Fosenpaket stands out as a clear example of good professional and political work. I would like to thank the two veggies, the South-Trundellag County and the North-Trundellag County, and close with the implementation of Fosenpakket.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3172	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3175	I think the Council of State should send a lot more than congratulations. At least, on behalf of the government, the Council of State should send a thank you for the fact that the drivers – through coercion – have to take on an extra charge when the government will not pay, of more than 1,200 million. kr. It's referred to as a spice layer. Where is the effort and contribution of the State to this fissure layer? We're looking for it. And once again, on the basis of the incredible extra revenue received last year by the state, which the state is going to get this year, one should actually be able to use terms that are probably not parliamentaryly correct – so I will not do so – on what it looks like when such a rich state sends congratulations to a local population who will have to pay for their own roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3183	I actually don't need the strong expressions Arne Sortevik uses in this case. On the contrary, I would like to distance myself from expressions such as ‘compulsory’ and ‘expression’ in connection with a case involving county councils, which relates to 17 projects. The case spokesperson has gone into more detail about how they were forbidden. I know from experience, in my own neighborhood, the joy that is attached to the ability to get a better path. We can think of this as being a difficult case on the Norwegian road for a long time, and that there is a lot of mess here, but it's also the case here that there's now inexhaustible fissures. In this context, there is a gap between the municipalities, the local population and the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3190	I record that the Council of State would distance itself from both strong statements and a little bit of each, and I understand that. A lot of this road network is part of the road network that the state was responsible for before, and that you just pushed right over to someone else. And then you can represent it as if this is a large splice layer. I don't think there's so much spice when the drivers have to pay 75 pst. and the county councils 25 pst. I really think the council should bring some money, and I said, yes, we're on the split layer at least. But all you do is give the drivers an expensive financing system that costs a lot of money and doesn't give them a single meter way. Should not the Council of State also take responsibility and take back the road network that was taken over, ensure that it had been financed and at least cleaned up that road network before it was left to county councils who should spend their money on completely different things?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3197	There are several aspects of government's policy that are coherent in a matter like this, including keeping order in the Norwegian economy. I understand that it doesn't have a thought for the Progress Party. So one suggests that we say no to a project like two county municipalities and nine municipalities are some to realize in a split with county funds and tolls, and therefore postpone this for many years rather than give them the right to what they themselves have asked for – that is, say yes to an application that is to be dealt with in the Stortinget according to the guidelines we have. I'm not in doubt, and I'm not in doubt what the local people appreciate most in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3204	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3209	‘Partly toll financing for Fosenpakak in Southern and North Trøndelag’, that is to say, a road with a low standard that belongs to today’s county road network. It is narrow and fluctuated, with poor visibility, and it passes through residential areas. It is a piece of road that the drivers themselves have to pay to upgrade. The roads in Norway are very poor, despite the fact that there has been a socialist government in Norway in some countries. 50 of the last 66 years, and despite that we have enough money to fix the roads. A package is either something you give, or something you get, which I've said before. But in terms of traffic, it's a package that you pay for. It's going to be fixed over and over again. The new county roads that were given as a gift package to the counties, followed and followed not enough money, so that the counties can upgrade the roads so that they get normal, good standard. That is why the package will be sent to the drivers, and the Fosen package will also have to be paid for yourself. We record that the use of tolls under this government continues with full force. The red-green show no willingness to take responsibility for the roads here in the country. But the Right and Christian People's Party also follows the toll decisions closely, and it cuts me in the heart. That the roads are upgraded and repaired, it delights my heart. And the Progress Party is promoting good proposals for state funding to replace the use of tolls. I also recognise that the leader of the Christian People's Party, and perhaps also the minister, does not understand what the people of the country clearly understand, that if the proposals of the Advance Party are adopted today, with state funding, it is going to be as fast or faster than by car funding. When this route, which is part of the Fosen package, is completed once – perhaps towards or after 2019 – then those who are now born in 2011 have already gone to school for several years. This should make everyone understand that road development in Norway is moving at a very slow pace. It'll be a very long time until the slogan, "One hour to the city," becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3224	Then the next speaker is Bård Hoksrud, which is the last recorded speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3227	I could not cheer myself up after listening to the representative Hareide. He said that as it was now, one would live with this policy by 2060. Free and keep me, I hope we will never live with this policy until 2060. The progress party is to spend the same money that both the Christian People's Party and all the other parties in this hall use, but we want to use them in a different way. I actually think that instead of using them on airlocks and airplanes about high-speed trains or lightning trains, you should spend the money on the nearby and what's important, and what's important to most people. When I hear individual representatives standing on this pulpit and saying that the inhabitants and drivers are very happy about the bill they are now going to pay at the toll stations, at least that was not the case when I was at Fosen. I did not experience the enthusiasm and the great joy of being allowed to be pushed into toll stations with tolls and extra taxes, as this is. It is a pure transport tax and an extra tax that you just have to pay to the drivers. But I know that for the Christian People's Party, it's as far as you're willing to go, to discuss whether the toll station is going to be there or there because you're just sending the bill straight to the drivers, as we saw in the treatment of the Aust-Agderpaket. I understand that there is a great deal of distance in the willingness to use state resources for road construction and infrastructure construction, and there is a big difference. You say you're willing to build lightning trains to hundreds of billions. We have the same money, but we want to spend it on building good, modern, safe and efficient roads and modernising today's railway so that you get a modern and efficient railway – but without airlocks and without air dreams – and with money that is realistic to do with it. I heard the Council of State talking about inflation and the importance of being careful and careful. The state has taken in $80 billion. kr more than was foreseen in 2010 and 2011. Each month in 2011, approximately one month has been recorded. 6 B.C.E. kr more in oil revenue than the budget had been budgeted for. One month means that you could pay the whole toll bill, and then much more money would have gone into place instead of to large financial corporations and for collection costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3238	Then the next speaker is Susanne Bratli, who is now the last recorded speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3241	A few comments at the end of the day. Firstly, I would just like to stress that on our part, we maintain the criticism of the Advance Party in terms of money use. I just want to remind you that an investigation on high-speed trains has been ordered. There is no decision about it, even if you say that the will is there if it turns out that the investigation is going to be good, and then you have to discuss how to finance it. But the decision is not taken, and we are discussing what is now about this year's budget. That's the one. The second is that I'm not so sure that anyone who's been in government for the last 50 years feels comfortable being accused of being a socialist. I just have to say that I don't feel comfortable being accused of being a socialist. The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, may think it's okay, but I don't think the Central Party feels comfortable being called socialists. So it might be that you should look in the dictionary and actually read what the words mean. That's the one word. The second is that maybe you should also look at what the word 'package' means. In fact, the package can be something you order on the Internet, which you get sent and have to pay for. But if I get a gift, it's something completely different. If I get a Christmas present, I won't pay for it. So this is a toll package and not a toll present. The initiative for this project originally came from business. That's what I think it's important to emphasize in this context. The Fosen business took the initiative, they contacted the politicians and made the commitment. I think we should thank the business community for that today. It started while it was talking about the old highways, but it was a project that referred to the old highways and county roads, with the same percentage of toll as what we are dealing with today. So the only change is that all the ways now have become county municipal. So finally, just a little bit of an explanation about what the project is actually called. In a good trance, on a good Fosen goal, it's called "Ei tim' te' by'n".
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3252	Then the next speaker is Freddy de Ruiter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3255	Like the representative Bratli, I am a bit over the vocabulary of the Progress Party. But I choose to see it positive in it, because it's not that many years since we were called communists. So that's obvious there's some progress. [[Laughter]] It is not very exciting to have toll debates in Stortinget. It's getting reasonably predictable. The only thing that might be exciting is to hear if the Progress Party has come up with some new words, some new names. Today there has been extra transport taxes, there has been extortion, there has been political extortion, there has been pettyness, there has been coercion. Then I also register from the representative Vosskensen that tolls cut her heart. To that I would say that there is a lot that cuts my heart with the policy of the Progress Party, which is far more serious than tolls, but let me not go into it. The representative Hoksrud also refers to the East Agderpakket, where one sent the bill to the drivers. My and most people's perception of the East Agderpaket and the grips we did there was actually to make a burden-sharing between the drivers, and not send the bill over to the drivers. It was actually a division of an existing bomb, just so that's said. What is dangerous about the populism of the Advance Party in terms of tolls is precisely that it endangers the economy. It is not just tolls, but it is the whole policy of the Progress Party that goes into the daily budgetary procedure here in the United Kingdom. I think we should be very happy that it is not the Progress Party that governs this country. Then I think we might have had Greek conditions here. To me, it is incomprehensible that the Right – and perhaps the Christian People's Party – can find it tempting to cooperate with the Advance Party that leads to those degrees such an irresponsible economic policy. So I want to challenge them on it: are you comfortable with what you meet here every day by proposals from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3269	Then the next speaker is Knut Arild Hareide, and then the representative Arne Sortevik. The President dares not even suggest that he is the last recorded speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3272	What the president should know, at least, is that I don't want to take the challenge from the representative Freddy de Ruiter and go into a government discussion here now. But I just want to say three things, and that's to the Progress Party. The only thing is that the Fosen people are happy with the solution that lies here. There's a local political uprising around this. There are nine municipalities, and there are two municipalities that are in favour of this. That's the way we can see if this is something that's wanted. The second thing is, when I hear the Progress Party, you characterize the drivers, it almost sounds as if the drivers don't use the roads. But there is no one who uses the roads as a bilistan, and who once again enjoyed it more more. That is why the car list is also pleased with this. When I point out 2060, there is nothing I have come up with myself, but this is the experience on Fosen. With the solution that is being outlined today from Stortinget, they get good results in 15 years, unless they wait for many, many decades. Therefore, the Christian People's Party fully supports the setting that will be attached today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3279	The Progress Party shall not conduct budgetary proceedings in individual cases. This gives me a good opportunity to remind the representatives of the government parties, and in particular the representative de Ruiter, of the alternative proposals of the Progress Party for the National Transport Plan for the period 2010 to 2019. There is money to invest in roads, in European roads, in national roads, and also in county roads according to today’s model – today’s county road network. Finally, to the representative Knut Arild Hareide: it is the way the drivers pay so it cheats before the toll bill comes. When we finish the next case, we've processed 15 new bills for the drivers, and we're talking about $20 billion. But before those bills come on the table, it's like the drivers in 2011 pay approx. 55 B.C.E. kr to the State. They pay to buy cars, they pay to own cars, and they pay to use cars. The challenge for the driver is that a greedy state, which in addition to being greedy is also incredibly rich, believes that it is too small – that 55 billion. NOK in 2011 is actually too small, so it has to be printed out more and new extra bills. The Progress Party considers this unnecessary, and we believe that using some of our unimaginable oil wealth to invest in a good road network in Norway, whether it is European roads, national roads or county roads, is good money use. There is good use of money in a generation perspective, and above all, it is an investment to make Norway more competitive and secure housing throughout the country. So we have difficulty understanding, with one reservation, these constant attacks. The only reservation is that this is painful to get served each time to the parties that are still printing extra bills for the drivers. It's painful to be reminded that you print extra taxes when you don't have to print extra taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3288	I had not intended to take the floor in the matter, but when the committee chairman, Hareide, is as hard as he is, I think he must get the answer back. But at least it's good to see that also Hareide continues that the roads are actually there for the drivers. So in the NTP period 2009–2019, the figures we get from the Ministry of Transport suggest that the drivers over the ten-year period actually pay 700 billion. SEK in taxes and taxes related to cars and in transport taxes – toll financing. It is well possible that Hareide and others believe that this is not enough to tax the motorists in Norway. But with the eyes of the Progress Party, this is a huge tax and a heavy burden, which affects both the drivers, affects the industry and affects our competitiveness. If you don't understand and respect another party's view that you're very sorry that the drivers are going to be used as dairy cows in Norway, I understand that argument, but I think it lacks all due respect for the views and positions of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3295	Several have not asked for the floor... that's what the representative Tone Merete Sønsterud has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3298	Like the representative Susanne Bratli, I think I'll start with a visit to Vosskensen. We have at least heard in the final road cases in this Chamber how the socialist governments and also the red-green wing are referred to as socialists. Now, «socialist» is not a scoring word in my world, but only for clarification, or training is more likely to say, then I am a social democrat, and if the representative Vosskensen does not know the difference, I would like to talk to her about it after this meeting is over. But then to Sortevik, and I would say also Hoksrud and now also finally to Fredriksen: The representative Sortevik tells us that he does not conduct budgetary proceedings in individual cases. No, we've got that all figured out. But no matter what matters we deal with in this room that have to do with the economy, there are some budgetary implications anyway. Now I am not going to ram up all the promises and use of money that the Advance Party has advertised in the last weeks. But we're probably talking about more than 80 billion. NOK, which has been a sum that has been used here today. In the toll cases we are dealing with, the Progress Party has its firm comments, as well as in this case. They refer to what they call the oil fund – the right name is for the rest of the state pension fund – and they also point to and tell us that going beyond the policy of action regarding the fund is very good for future generations. With the economic policy of the Progress Party, the Progress Party would send the bill to thousands of people working in export-oriented business – not so that they would have to pay a sum from their own pocket, but by simply risking their job loss. It is serious for those involved, but also for the economy as a whole. At the same time, interest will go up and hit ordinary people with house and car loans. They will have increased monthly expenses. If we were to pursue an economic policy that jeopardises Norway's competitiveness and jobs, which, in turn, will lead to the failure of the welfare state to meet its challenges and needs both today and into the future in a good way, then it will really mean that we are depriving ourselves of responsibility for those who live in that country, and not least we are depriving ourselves of responsibility for future generations. With regard to the government’s policy on Norwegian business and competitiveness, I would just like to remind you that from 2005 250,000 new jobs have been created in this country. Two thirds of them have come into the private sector. So making a statement that this government is not concerned with business and competition is probably a little bit to be taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3311	Then the President has not recorded that several have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4798]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3327	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3336	In 1999, the Storting agreed to partially toll-financed construction of E6 and E18 in Østfold, including measures on existing E18 and cross-roads along E18. The extension has been submitted to the Stortinget in several rounds. The E18 between the Riksgrenst–Örje and Oslo is the main foreign orientator of the country after the E6 between the Riksgrenst/Svinesund and Oslo. About 20 pst. of all international carriage of goods by road to and from Norway carried on E18 through Eastfold. This is a major stretch of heavy transport, and it is the main route to and from Stockholm and the Baltic region. On the approximately 6 km distance east from Momark to Härland, continuous pass-by is planned on both sides of the road. At Härland, a 150 m long wooden-field tunnel shall be built. The remainder of the route up to Middle Town shall be built as a two-field road without pass-by field. Mid-driving works shall be built on the whole route. In recent years, E18 in Eastfold has had an annual traffic growth of 2.5 pst. higher than the national average. In this case, the government is proposing the development and financing of E18 on the Melleby-Momark route, including the financing of actions on existing E18 and cross-roads along the E18 route. Construction start is planned early in 2012 and road opening is summer 2014. The Committee shall be required to do so. In addition, the government outlines an overall approach to how the Parselles Riksgren-Ørje, Melleby-Momarken and Knapstad-Akershus border can be expanded and financed, including the remaining funding of the cross-road measures. There is local political support for the proposed arrangement. The E6 through Østfold was completed as a four-field road in 2008. The E6 toll collection started in 2001. In 2006, it was decided to extend the recovery period from 15 to 20 years for both E6 and E18 in the context of the review of the deployment and financing arrangements for the project E18 Krosby-Knapstad. Further development of E18 through Eastfold was addressed in the context of the national transport plan 2002–2011 and the national transport plan 2006–2015. The size has later joined different arrangements for the maintenance of individual projects. The Eastfold Package has helped significantly improve the road standard of the 58 km route on the E18 through Eastfold in recent years. The E18 is now built as a two-field road between Ørje and Melleby, and as a four-field road from Momarken to Knapstad. Consequently, three subdivisions remain: Riksgren–Ørje 6.6 km Melleby–Momarken, which we treat here today, 8.3 km Knapstad–Akershus border 6.0 km No level clearance is available for the route Riksgren–Örje. There is considerable uncertainty about the cost of developing this route. For the route Melleby-Momarken, there is a approved regulatory plan. An external quality assurance has been carried out. For the Knapstad-Akershus border section, there is a approved municipal sub-plan. The work on the regulatory plan is ongoing. The total estimated cost is approximately 2.3 billion. NOK for the development of E18 on the sections that I have mentioned here, including the remaining financing of cross-road measures. The annual traffic on the route today varies between 7000 and 8000 vehicles. In the dimensioning year, annual traffic of about 10 500 vehicles is expected. In the new toll stations, up to 15 years have been collected in each station. This involves toll collection between 2001 and 2030, a total of 29 years. A total toll contribution amounts to approximately 7.4 billion. kr for E6 and E18. The Government underlines that the financing plan for the E18 Riksgren–Örje does not imply that the government has taken a decision on the extension of the route. The Government will come back with an assessment of this in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan. It is positive that there is local political support for the projects. There is strong local involvement in Eastfold for a forced deployment of E18 through the county. The various decisions taken in recent years, both locally in the municipalities of Askim, Eidsberg, Hobøl, Spydeberg, Trøgstad and Marker, in the district of Eastfold and in the centre of Stortinget, express the desire to expand. The government wants to avoid stopping in the construction of E18. The majority emphasise that this is not the case in the media, that the Melleby–Momark route ensures continuous development. Since the last trasé opening, the section Krosby–Knapstad in November 2010, it has been stationary in the construction work on the route. I address the proposal promoted by the Right and Christian People's Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3382	The representative Injerd Schou has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3385	With the Stortinget's decision today to extend the new E18 between Melleby and Momarken, the red-green majority has taken another important step towards the full upgrade of E18 to Sweden. The result will be increased road safety with significantly fewer meeting accidents and more environmentally friendly and efficient traffic. The red-green majority has been committed to contributing to a faster and more coherent deployment of E18 to Sweden than was foreseen when the national transport plan was presented in spring 2004. In November, the Prime Minister and Minister for Transport opened new E18 from Krosby to Knapstad. In other words, we're on the right track to achieve the goal. The E18 through Østfold is of major importance for international freight transport, and the Decision means less road traffic, shorter journey time and more efficient freight transport. On a national basis, it has been estimated that the road project proposed in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, which is assumed to be open to traffic before 2020, is likely to mean 21 billion. kr in reduced business economic transport costs for business. The project comprises an 8.3 km long E18 section in the municipality of Eidsberg in Østfold, which is due to be completed in 2014, to which the rapporteur of the case referred. The new road shall be built as a two-field road with a mid pull over the whole route. On the 6 km closest to Momark, continuous pass-by is planned on both sides of the road. So it's going to be a 150-metre-long tunnel at Härland, where it's going to be a three-field road. I have noticed that the opposition is critical that there is no quadruple road being built on the route, but I would like to stress that the number of cars per day on the route between Midway and Momark today varies between 7 000 and 8 000 vehicles. In the dimensioning year, 20 years after the planned traffic opening in 2014, an annual traffic of about 10 500 vehicles, divided by about 8000 vehicles, is expected on the new road and around 2 500 vehicles on the existing E18. In other words, annual traffic is not high enough to defend the four-field road. I must also stress that in addition to the fact that the new line that is now to be built as essentially two-field road with continuous pass-by fields on both sides, the old line is still in use. So this is a perfectly sound arrangement. As the rapporteur also pointed out, there has been a strong local involvement in Eastfold for a forced deployment of E18 through the county. This is a toll scheme with strong local political support. I would also like to point out that the state contribution is high. For the route Melleby-Momarken, the State contribution is 770 million. NOK 991 million in total. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3402	It is gratifying that this proposition will finally be dealt with in the Storting. Everyone is pleased that the E18 on the route Melleby-Momarken is being expanded. Unfortunately, it is a pity to build a completely new road with three different standards: two-field road with pass-by fields on both sides of the road, three-field tunnel and two-field road without pass-by fields. It's like building backwards into the future, or someone else would have said, backwards into the bird box. It is sad that when you are building a new road that will last for many, many years to come, you choose a standard that, in very few years, can prove to be unsustainable in terms of traffic, so that you have to build the road to the full standard. Then the costs are much higher than they would have been if you had done it right away. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the road be expanded as a full four-field road immediately and that it be fully financed by State resources. Unfortunately, there are also a few other very large ‘but’ who come very clearly in this case. The first is, of course, the very expensive way of building the road that you put up in this case, which you have previously adopted, and which seems to me that the majority will also go ahead when you are going to expand the E18 further – and when you built out the E6 – in Eastfold. The total cost of all the projects within the Østfold package is intended to be approx. 9 680 million. kr. Of this, a total of 5,220 million. kr is financed by tolls as an extra tax from the drivers. In addition, the drivers shall pay an additional 500 million. NOK in collection costs and another SEK 1.7 billion. kr in interest payable on the Eastfold package. This means that the drivers who live or who want to travel through Østfold will pay 2.2 billion. kr in interest and collection costs at the top of the above 5.2 billion. kr added by the Eastfold package in tolls. To put this into perspective: it actually means that interest and collection costs have to be paid to build out the E18 Melleby–Momark twice without becoming a single meter new road – without becoming a single meter new road. In the setting, the Right and Christian People's Party write that they believe that the government is building the «past» by not building the four-field highway and double tunnel with two fields in each direction of the distance. I entirely agree with that. Then it becomes a little strange that the two parties are going to vote against the proposal of the Progress Party that is being discussed in the matter, about the full four-field motorway on the route. But at least I would like to bring up the proposal of the Advance Party on the matter of building a full four-field motorway. Then I have to go to the representative of Sønsterud's post on the previous case. We are also very aware that it is now called the State pension fund – and it is called both foreign and other things. But it's the 'oil fund' you use for daily use, and people recognize it. It's not like this money is set aside for retirement in the future. But it was a very nice way to make sure that it ended up discussing how to manage that money. That's why it was ageless to start calling it Staten pension fund. When I hear more of the representatives here, it sounds like you're about to put the economy above you. Then I think it's important to bring with me what business is saying, and what the representative Anne Marit Bjørnface said instead: the social benefit can be about 21 billion. kr for business and society by building a proper and proper roadway. Bergen Nueringsrådet says that you can invest $65 billion. in infrastructure with no major dramatic consequences. Or as I experience when I'm around talking to people in business: they don't understand the political majority. They do not understand that you are not willing to spend more money on investing in infrastructure. That's how they do it in business. When they're going to move on, they're investing money to create more values in the future. It goes with approx. 28 B.C.E. kr due to accidents every year. I think it would make sense to invest some of that money in infrastructure and good, modern and efficient roads instead of spending money in terms of accident costs and not least the human suffering it means. Investing in infrastructure is a good investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3415	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3418	E18 between the Riksgren–Örje and Oslo is an important transport corridor for much of the freight transport between Norway and Europe. About 20 pst. of all international freight transport services to and from Norway is just going here. It is traffic growth, to which the rapporteur has referred, and it has been and is a strong and sustained commitment from Østfold, both from the municipalities and from the county council, in order to realise the route we are now going to decide on. Countless telephones from Østfold to realize this project have become my and others. I take the opportunity to send a warm congratulations to the head of the Transport Committee in the Eastfold County Municipality, Per Inge Bjerknes, who has been very active. Today’s decision at Melleby–Momark realizes 8.3 km of E18, which will provide a safe and safe road. The next two parcels remaining are considered in the roll-out of NTP 2014-2023 or before if the necessary clarifications have been made. The Eastfold package made a significant contribution in its time to raising the standard on the roads in the county. And now you see the result of it too fully. This is building the country, and the Center Party is enjoying itself today together with Eastfold, who is now realizing another piece of the parcels on the E18. It's positive for business, it's positive for the population, and it's good for us across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3427	The Christian People's Party is fully committed to the good introduction of the case-speaker Ingerd Schou, who did very well for the cause. I just want to comment on two things. The only thing is that the Christian People's Party is on the proposal that ‘will the government realise the ongoing and completed development of the E18 Winterbro-Sweden/Riksgränsen funded by public private cooperation [[OPS]] That's because this road, E18, is the very crown example of how crazy it can be when one builds out pieces and divides. Yes, it's actually like today that parts of this road go straight out into a sand roof, because on parts of the road have a four-field road, then a two-field road and then a four-field road again. It shows how expensive it is when we build out pieces and divide. That is why the Christian People's Party, together with the Right, makes this good proposal. Then I also want to comment on what goes on the standard on the road. I mean, what we call a narrow four-field road is a very good solution on this road. It's not that many months since it was discovered that the state road system has systematically subdimensioned the number of growth when we look back ten years. When we then both know how heavy this area is and expect traffic, I actually think that the representative Bård Hoksrud had good intentions in his post when he spoke about the standard on this road. When the representative Hoksrud asks why the Christian People's Party will not give its support to the proposals of the Progress Party, it is possible, among other things. on funding, which is part of their proposals, to which the Christian People's Party does not subscribe. So the Christian People's Party supports that it should be possible to view this distance as a good OPS project, and we think that a narrow four-field path is a good solution for this particular road.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3443	I would like to thank the Transport and Communications Committee for its timely and thorough consideration of the matter. The case was filed on May 27th, and is now confirmed. A positive decision today is important in order to advance the development of E18 through Eastfold. There is a wide range of information about Stortinget's approval. If everything goes according to plan, there may be hope of start-up now in 2011. We are all certain that the development of the E18 has great value for business and other road users, not only local but also for transit traffic from other parts of the country. The implementation of the Eastfold Package and the finalisation of the remaining Parcels on the E18 have broad political support in the county and in the municipalities. Let me just comment briefly on some of the points in the configuration from the committee. Here's a plural, the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which thinks I've created uncertainty for the E18 by opening up a completely new trajectory through Akershus. It is not correct. I'm busy streamlining planning processes, which now often take too much time. An important contribution to such efficiencies is a clear political signal from the State on the planning arrangements. In NTP 2010-2019, it is clear that further planning should be based on solutions in today’s trajectory. Size didn't have any notes on it. The same majority write that it is critical that there is no signal to when a coherent E18 through Eastfold could be completed. All lots, with the exception of the Advance Party, write that they see positively that a comprehensive arrangement is being drawn up for how the Parsellane Riksgren-Ørje, Melleby-Momarken and Knapstad-Akershus border can be expanded and financed. This sketch, which is also viewed positively by the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, contains exactly the signals that the same two parties call for in the first remark. Maybe these two games here have been a little too fast to hang on to the Progress Party. So write a wide variety that one has noticed that the completion of the last two parcels, the Knapstad–Akershus border and the Riksgren–Örje, will be considered in the context of upcoming revisions of the national transport plan. What is precise here is that Riksgrensa–Örje is a matter for the upcoming NTP, but Knapstad–Akershus border, or actually Retvedt, is already inside the NTP with a start in the period 2010–2014. It has also been reported on page 2 of the proposition. This means that hopefully we can keep progressing faster on the E18. How quickly will be associated with progress in the work of the regulatory plan and the subsequent clarifications, including: estimates of costs, quality assurance and proposals for a proposal. If the regulatory plan is approved in the autumn and there are no unfulfilled conditions in the further work, construction starts may be possible as early as 2013. If we want to achieve such a goal, in other words, construction start Knapstad – Akershu’s boundary will be able to take place before Melleby – Momark is finished. Such progress will provide good continuity and coherent expansion. The Progress Party, Right and Christian Folkepari will build the four-field road on the route Melleby-Momarken. The proposition makes it possible for traffic in the year of dimensioning, which is 20 years after the planned opening of the road, to be estimated to be around 8 000 vehicles per day. This is much lower than the 12000 entry point in annual traffic for four fields according to road standards. Four fields in the Melleby–Momark will involve a monthly overcapacity. The consequences would be higher costs and thus less money to go to other places, including the finalisation of the E18 in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3462	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3466	I will not use the line to complain about tolls, but I will complain about the type of road selected. It has not been long since Lars Aksnes in the Directorate of Roads recognized in full that we have built roads with too little capacity. So here we're going on again: at 8.3 kilometers, three different types of road are being built. In fact, I think it's worse than following old, historical tracks – this, of course, bears the mark of being such a hokuspokus political performance. How is this described? According to Bettina Sandvin in Vegvesenet, it is about building a modern two-field road, with the middle parts, which will be experienced as a four-field highway. We want roads that are physically wide, quadruple roads, so that the drivers that drive there can actually be convinced and absolutely sure that they are running on the four-field road – not an attempt at an experience that two fields work like four. What does the Council of State think of such an investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3473	I'm going to use the same numbers as the state road authority tells me. When they count the daily traffic of 8 000 vehicles 20 years after the opening, I have to say that with all the road projects that are waiting here for realization, I find it right to do it as it is now proposed and that is agreed today. So I'm going to say that when we haven't presented this case before this year, it's because we've gone an extra round and looked at the actual width of the road, because we knew that there would be an alternating width here. But we've solved it the way we've now suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3480	The next replicator is Ingerd Schou. Is it correctly understood by the President that the representative Schou has asked for two lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3483	Right has two lines, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3488	Then the representative Schou will have the two consecutive lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3491	Thank you. I enjoy every new kilometer of road on a tribal road – also on other roads, but this time on a tribal road. The main route to Stockholm and the Baltic region is the second most traffic we have in the country. I want to follow up on the representative of Sortevik: The Road Directorate just said a few weeks ago that we had built too narrow. I have freshened my mind – it probably has the council also – that the Eidet tunnel at Sarpsborg was built with one tunnel run. It was a mistake, one repented, and ended up building new and – of course – twice as expensive, but it was necessary. We can get in the same situation on E18. From November until now, has the Council of State considered what the Directorate came to recognize, to build both wider roads and double tunnels?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3498	Without having specifically taken up with the development director Lars Aksnes that his statement was to be used later in all possible contexts, I think I have to say, on behalf of him, that he had probably not foreseen that this was how his statement was to be used. He has recognised that there is a case where a formerly built too narrow, and there is a recognition that I think it is important to keep track of. Therefore, I can also answer Schou's question by saying that yes, as I also said in my post, we have gone an extra round in relation to the road width just to be sure that we are now choosing the right solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3503	Thanks for the answer. Then I follow up with the next line. I also believe that the Road Directorate and Aksnes should not be used in every possible context, but this is therefore a tribal route, which is the main road to and from Europe towards Stockholm, etc. The Council of State also said in its statement that there should be no doubt about the next lines, and that the signals were given, and I beg the Council of State to be specific and commit itself to the following: When are the next lines completed on this 58 km long route?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3512	I have to be allowed to say, with the little experience that I've gained this over and a half years, that it would be very daunting for me now to say exactly when it's done, especially when one takes into account that one of these two projects, i.e. from the Riksgren to Ørje, is going to be considered in the next national transport plan, and it's very undecided. When it comes to Knapstad–Retvedt, I have informed you that there is now planning work. Given that the different stages of the work are going well, we can hopefully expect to start in 2013, but I think I will wait a little while to talk about the completion before we get any further in the planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3519	In his previous reply, the Council of State said that we could evaluate the next NTP period, and she said “hopefully” – relate to the two projects that remain. And it's clear that there's a big difference between that and words like "signal" and " sketches". I believe that in all simplicity explains why the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are so insolent after getting more concrete formulations about what time this path can be completed. If I can then be so bold as to ask that question: What time, at best, does the Council of State think that the soundness of this road is in place? For that is the demand of the Right and the Christian People's Party: we wonder what time we can have an obligation that this road in its wholeness is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3526	I thank you for the question, because I would like to express what this whole proposition expresses, an insolence in relation to the completion of the whole E18, because we all know that it is of great importance, both for business traffic, for other transit traffic and for local traffic. Let me then point out from page 2 of the proposal, where the national transport plan and what is there are resuming: ‘In addition, it is added to the construction start of the section Knapstad – Retvedt in Østfold and Akershus, with completion for the last six-year period. The project E18 Riksgren–Örje is not mentioned in the current national transport plan. The government has not taken a decision on a possible development of the route, but will, if appropriate, come back to this in connection with the rolling of the national transport plan.’» With all due respect for all the projects that are in place and that are to be initiated during this period: it's as concrete as I can be now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3539	It's great to hear that more people are busy with the four-field highway, it's just that they're going to vote against it afterwards. But it doesn't matter to the Council of State; the Council of State is against it. And that's okay. We have built too narrowly, says the State Road Administration. And so has the Council of State. But the Council of State is still going to follow the same calculation methods that it has done before, and that it has acknowledged is not satisfactory. Many times the Council of State has said from this pulpit that we made mistakes 40 years ago. And there's something this government is still doing: we're going to build mistakes in More and Romsdal, we're going to build mistakes in Finnmark, and now you're going to build mistakes in Eastfold as well. Is the Council satisfied that in a few years' time the calculations are likely to show that a full four-field motorway should be built, and that means that the drivers will have a strong extra bill? Is the Council of State satisfied with continuing to do what was done 40 years ago, to which the Council of State has been critical?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3551	Unlike the Progress Party, I am pleased that the government takes into account that there is a different traffic base on different roads. That's the way it is. For this reason, we also use the accumulated resources in such a way that we both get the most new and traffic-proof road possible and at the same time choose the road width depending on the size of the traffic. So what Hoksrud really has reason to think about today is that we're going to have connected middle parts along a traffic path, that we're going to have pass-by fields on both sides of this road at 6 km, and we're going to get three fields through the tunnel. It will still be such that we base a certain daily traffic figure on our planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3558	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3563	Over several years, the focus has now been on the further development of E18 through Eastfold. E18 Ørje – Oslo is a high-traffic foreign ORridor. About 20 pst. of all international carriage of goods by road to and from Norway carried on E18 through Eastfold. It is tempting to add that the rest, about two thirds of the land-based transport of goods and persons to and from Norway, travel on E6 through Eastfold and over Svinesund. This gives us a great deal of traffic congestion through the county and is one of the reasons why we in Eastfold, with our rapporteurs and county rapporteurs at the head, prioritise the development of the main transport years E6, which were completed in 2008, and E18, which we are holding, and also the double-track railway further from Moss and to the border in order not to have to start and extend the E6 to the six-field motorway, as the Progression Party will, before the four-field road is paid down, because of the traffic load on the road. All these projects are part of the original Eastfold package, which was first adopted by the Stortinget in 2000. The development of E18 has been a priority in NTP 2002–2011 and 2006–2015. But it was only during the Stoltenberg II administration that we got speed on the expansion. In 2007, the development and financing of the Krosby-Knapstad section was discussed and adopted in the Stortinget. This route has now been completed and opened by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport. Today, we are discussing proposals for the development and financing of the next route, Melleby-Momarken. The municipalities concerned and Østfold County Council examined the case in March and April 2010 and have joined an arrangement for the development and financing of E18 on the remaining sections of the Riksgren–Örje, Melleby–Momarken and Knapstad–Akershus border, including the remaining financing of cross-road measures. But it's only Melleby–Momark that the case applies today. The remaining sections will be returned by the government in connection with the national transport plan in 2013. The development of E18 and E6 is, through the Easternfold package, an overall project, based on the sharing of the costs between the drivers and the state, where the E6 drivers have contributed almost 70 pst. When both roads are completed, there will be a total of 50–50 distribution between the country and the drivers for these two roads, which will be paid down in 2030. With this government, the E18 has been developed continuously and without any stop. It gives predictability to the project and to the inhabitants of Inner Eastfold – and to road users – who are very positive. So we hope that the last sections will be further expanded in the same spirit in the future. According to the Department, annual traffic on the route is between 7 000 and 8 000 vehicles today, and in the year of dimensioning – i.e. 20 years after the planned traffic opening – it is an ODT of about 10 500 vehicles. Based on these figures, the E18 on the Momarken-Melleby route is planned with partly continuous pass-by field, partly with a 150 m long wooden field tunnel, and partly by two-field road without pass-by field. Mid-driving works shall be built on the whole route. I assume that these traffic figures are going to last, and that they're going to build a road for the future. After a spring in which some in Eastfold were nervous that there would not be a continuation of the E18 this year, we now see that the government and the Stortinge return.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3585	As an east fold I am happy for all the ways we get, but I do not share the unconditional joy that some have expressed from the pulpit. There are several reasons for this. One is that if you look at the Easternfold package in total, which is toll-financed, it costs $1.7 billion. NOK only in interest. When we also know that it's going to cost $ 1⁄2 billion. NOK in collection costs, this is not a pleasant thing. Today, there has been a lot of talk from this speaker that further toll collection has now been provided, as a result of so-called local initiative – local desire. I have been so lucky to be in the treatment in Eastfold county, and I don't think you can say that there was any joy there at all. But you felt pressured to go in for tolls. At last, the Storting decided the matter here today. This is a matter where we've seen a lot of broken promises. Most of us remember that central party leader Åslaug Haga as promised completion of the E18 during 2009, and now we hear from today's council that we are not told when we can expect a complete completion. The fact that the red-green and government parts are trailers of tolls is not surprising. On the other hand, the representative Ingjerd Schou is surprised in this matter. In the 2009 election campaign, Ingjerd Schou had the following reader’s letter on July 30 – a letter that is also on the Right’s website: «My position and proposal in Østfold Right – to which I have agreed – are the following; I believe tolls are not a good solution. Tribal roads should be fully financed by the State. It should be completely possible to do that. It cannot and should not be such that local church traffic and trips to the joint purchase are the basis for whether Norway has Europe roads to and from the continent.’» It's a quote that the Progress Party puts itself fully behind. I think it is sad today – when you actually have the opportunity to fulfill the election promises – that you choose to do the opposite and rather break the election promise. Finally, the construction of a road of the past with two fields, and not building four fields immediately, is unfortunate, especially given the traffic figures for E6, which failed. I am afraid that it may be wrong in this round as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3603	To the representative of Wiborg, that is to say, I still mean it – tribal roads should have been exempted from toll financing. Here, however, is the basis for starting toll financing, and with the wording of the Progress Party and their proposals in this matter, it will only lead to one thing, namely that you will not move forward and that it will not be gone either. It's just going to be less tolls, but there's not going to be any results – as in so many other things. I also believe that the party has used up the money that the majority would otherwise like to spend in the investigation of the high-speed rail. I'd like to see that graph as well. I should have gone further on that calculation, but I'm going to leave it, because there are probably several entries on the notice of discovery that could have been requested in this respect. The E18 is built in pieces and divided – 8.3 km – and new horn music is produced once in 2014. So this is a tribal route to and from Europe. 20 pst. freight transport goes along this line. It's heavy transport, it's not any kind of traffic. There's a growth of 2.5 pst. more than the national average, and there is local political consensus. I've been with and I've been eating veal from the very first time we started this, to be able at all to realize a new way – not that I liked it, not that I wanted it, but the reality was that otherwise we wouldn't have moved on. To the representative Johansen I have to say that it has not been a continuous construction. There has been a stop in the construction of the E18. There has been a stoppage, among others. now from November 2010, and there has been no construction/excavation along the line. And I've followed closely; I live in the area. That's what I call a stop. I call it not continuous construction, I call it gas/brake/stop, and I hope you can get a commitment that we will get a date for E18. So on the 58 km main road in Norway, the second most trafficked road to and from abroad, we are unable to achieve what the Right and Christian People's Party is calling for, namely a continuous, comprehensive development with new forms of funding. Business, says the Advance Party, wants more money for infrastructure. Yes, so do I. But what's real is that business is saying to a much greater extent: let's get a new way, and we allow and accept that we actually have to pay some tolls. I think it's sad that we get one tunnel with three driver files, that we get a narrower path, when we know that the growth in this area is formidable and will be it in the future, and that we don't build and allow ourselves to have overcapacity on this type of transport trasé. Then I would also like to remind you that the colleague of the Council of State promised in 2009 in the election campaign in 2001. We're way behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3616	The E18 is an important route — an important road for Norway, an important road for Eastfold. That is why it is an important decision that the Stortinget should take later today. The Transport and Communications Committee has worked rapidly. Unfortunately, it is not possible to say about the pace of work that has been in the ministry. The last E18-kilometers through Østfold were opened in winter in my home municipality. Now we're waiting to get started with the next stage, the next parsell, Melleby-Momarken. There is a requirement to start construction, there is a requirement for a new roadway opening, and there is a requirement for continuous expansion to Winterbro. The whole of Eastfold stands together on Eastfold Package 1. E6 we're done, E18 we're going to be done, and we're going to be done with our railway through the big cities of the Outer Eastfold. This is where Inner and Outer Eastfold stand together. The E18 has strong traffic growth, stronger than the rest of the country. Unfortunately, we have had many accidents on the new route we are about to decide today to build. Today we decide to build 8.3 km of new road. 6 km of them are with continuous pass-by fields on both sides of the road. I guess that tells you the most about what's really needed. The councils were honest, and I appreciate the honesty of state councils. The council says that this proposition has taken time, because they have assessed the alternating widths of these E18-kilometers: two fields, three fields and four fields, with pass-by fields. What the inhabitants of Inner Eastfold are wondering is why the Council of State and the government have come down to such an assessment. Since the Council of State has spent time on it, and has said so from the Chair of the Grand Council, it is important for us to use this road – drive in two fields, drive in three fields and drive in four fields, with passing fields – to know why the Council of State thought this was the best way for the future, the second largest export route for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3625	Finally, a few points – first of all, this 50 pst. the division of this split layer: that's not it – it's not a split 50/50. You can read that the drivers have to pay almost 7.5 billion in total. kr on a package that is probably $9.5 billion. to build. So it's a pretty significant bias, but of course you want to talk about it at least. But what's right is that this we're talking about is not just a European road, but it's a national route to and from Europe. So it's going to be extra special that on just 8 km of a large package also on the E18, we choose to build with three different road solutions. From the point of view of the Progress Party, it is almost incomprehensible that one can end up with such a conclusion that on these 8.3 km on a new, modern E18, three different solutions are chosen. It seems that both the political and the Road Directorate are almost in doubt about a kind of dogmatic use of the ÅDT figures, linked to the dimensioning of roads. Then I want to go back to what we got from Aksnes, and now the Minister of Transport will choose to interpret what she wants. But I think it was brave of the head of development in the Directorate of Roads to admit that there has actually been little foresight, and that new roads have been built in Norway in recent years, which actually turns out to be undersized. It's an important signal. At least you haven't chosen to listen to that signal here. It is still a sad solution that on a small distance of 8 km you choose three old-fashioned and not suitable transport solutions. So finally, we want the remaining projects on E6 and E18 implemented as soon as possible, based on four-field motorways and with state funding. That is our proposal. We have referred to our own financing NTP. So to the Right’s proposal for OPS. OPS is good. It is a good organisational tool in terms of road construction, but also in terms of ownership. But that doesn't explain funding. Furthermore, this proposal does not clarify whether a OPS project on the rest of these roads in this major package is to be funded by the State. That is what we want, so we are dealing with our own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3640	The representative, Hjelmdal, said that she was pleased with the honesty of the Council of State. When I hear the representative from the Right, Ingjerd Schou, and when I hear the representative Hjelmdal, it sounds like you want to build the full four-field highway. But if you look at the proposals that are being considered, there's only one suggestion that says something about the four-field motorway on the route. This is the proposal of the Progress Party. Both the Right and the Christian People's Party vote in favour of the government's proposal. I read: ‘The recommendation of the Committee shall be promoted by the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People’s Party.’; That means that all of the parties vote to build with the solution that is now at the root. I would have been very happy if the representative Ingerd Schou or Knut Arild Hareide had now realized that they are in the process of making a stupid or poor decision, based on their argument, and had rather supported the proposals of the Progress Party, which means the four-field highway throughout the route. I think it's tragic. This is part of the important entry and exit year between Norway and the continent. So the council said instead, but there's a difference in the traffic base, and that's why we have to have different standards. It means indirectly that the Council of State has probably said that on the E39 there will be two-field roads and four-field roads some places. I think it's stupid. The progress party thinks it's stupid. We want to build a real four-field highway between the biggest cities, because we think of it as important transport channels. Modern and efficient roads are important, on which it is really standard – with four fields. Then I register that the state council said that after 20 years there will be 8,500 in ÅDT. I guess it's in the papers that it'll be about. Ten thousand five hundred. Then you start getting pretty close to the 12,000 limit. When we know that Aksnes and others in Vegvesenet are saying that you have undersized, you should take it in and make sure to build a full four-field highway on the route. I just want to mention my own state, Telemark. It's on the E18. You didn't have the opportunity to build four-field bridges, which means you're in trouble, and it'll probably take a long time before you put in place another Langangen bridge and new Grenlands bridge, because it's going to be hugely expensive. At that time it was said that this was good enough for many years to come. Then it turned out very quickly that the traffic forecasts did not keep track. They were too low, and you need a real four-field highway. That's what you do in Eastfold, too. That's why we want to have it on the entire E18 in Eastfold, and not just on parts of it, which it's now added up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3654	The President will, in all honesty, draw attention to the fact that the representative is called Hemdal, and not Hjelmdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3658	I have seen in Østfold the joy that the project Melleby-Momarken has now been presented to the Stortinget and ready for realization. I need to understand this debate so that there are three parties that wanted us to go further rounds and spend even more time before this project was presented. Because it is necessarily the case that if we were to assess four-field road from the Riksgren through Østfold at that time, it would mean further planning, additional local rounds. Then we wouldn't be where we are today. I perceived it as Line Henriette Hämdal thought that the Ministry of Transport had spent an undue amount of time. But she actually wants the Ministry of Transport to use more time before we put this matter forward. I just have to say that in the Ministry of Transport, we are not currently using much time on any project. That's because the transport committee in Stortinget has got it so busy. But we're going to go the rounds that we find necessary. Now we have carefully assessed this matter. We have put forward a proposal for a solution that involves two-field roads and everything else outlined, based on an annual traffic of 8 000 on new E18 and 2 500 on the old E18 in the year of opening. We have outlined a solution for the section Knapstad – Retvedt, and let us know that we are coming back to it, and that we are coming back to the section Riksgren – Örje in the next NTP, which is not for long. So we're going to have a safe road in an area where it's absolutely necessary. And for funding, if anyone thinks that an OPS project here would be more reasonable, then I can't do well for it. All projects must be paid. In Dal–Minnesund e.g. Now they deliver 19 km as fast as a OPS project, and not at a higher price.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3673	What is pleasing in this matter is that there is no disagreement about the completion and realization of the E18. To the Council of State, I would like to say: No, it would not take more time, as far as I heard the Council of State say in response to my reply, then the Council of State would have gone an extra round and considered broader – if not longer, so at least wider – road and double tunnel. To the Progress Party it is to say that we are concerned that the project is now coming, that it is now being completed. It's a technicality to do this that goes on four fields and a double-track tunnel. Of course we do! We have made a proposal on one project – overall and with other funding. So it's equally eye-catching that the Progress Party is not in it. The only thing I hear when the representative Hoksrud of the Progress Party has the floor is that everything is based on not having tolls. I am not happy with the tolls on the main roads, but the result would have been that you could not start further development of the E18 now, and that we had not got a new toll of 8.3 km now. I'm glad there's going to be another 8.3 km. I would like to see this as a whole – with new funding, other funding – with four fields and a double tunnel. However, there are good plans to complete this. I would also like to see that we had got a date and a year for when this could be completed, and not just signals. Otherwise, the debate has gone along the same dividing lines that usually go through this type of debate — with or without tolls. To that it is probably also to say: in all the projects where the Progress Party has voted against tolls, I also expect to see that they have put money into the revised national budgets that are being treated, which compensates for all the projects that the Progress Party has abolished, that we can see it on its own line, and that how many times you have spent the money the majority wanted to use to investigate the high-speed rail, to finance with bombs what you would not otherwise have of new roads. I would have liked to have seen that we had completed the E18 – which Åslaug Haga promised us in 2009 – for a certain time, that we could have said in 2014. It's not going to happen later with today's government, but either way, there's an agreement that we're going to complete the E18, and there's no disagreement about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3691	Stop since November 2010, says the representative Schou. It's not continuous expansion. It's tile nailing. But that's the way it is when you don't have anything else to nail. According to the local representative from Vegvesenet in Østfold, neither plant machinery nor rigging has been packaged until now, in the confidence that the development would continue. It is now that they have started to set down and move to a new route, and tenders are bright. So in the time that has passed, the Council of State has spent time carefully assessing the expansion and width, and I think that is very reasonable in relation to the story that we have, as pointed out here, from the E6 in Eastfold, when we know about the discussion around ÅDT and the width of the road. The case has been dealt with by local local local authorities, in the county, and the assumption in those cases has always been two fields. I assume, as I said before, that the figures from the department are quality assured and that the road is being built for the future. Finally, it's probably not just the Progress Party that spends money several times. All OPS projects currently initiated by the Right since we adopted the NTP in 2009 must go beyond all frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3702	It should not be surprising for the representative of Bård Hoksrud that the Christian People's Party does not vote for a fully funded state development of E18. I have a sense of honesty, and I think Bård Hoksrud, too, has the sense that I'm honest, and I say this and I stand for it. And then I have the sense that the Council of State is honest with its presentation, and then I have the sense that Hoksrud is honest with its presentation. I could not hear that the Council of State gave any justification to the inhabitants of Inner Eastfold for the assessment she has made of why we get two fields, three fields and four fields with continuous pass-by fields with respect to the 8.3 km, other than that it is the daily traffic that is crucial, and that 2 500 of the cars are to run on today's E18. This is an export route, this is a road where there is a lot of heavy transport. We run isolation from Glava, we run chicken sausage from Nortura, we drive juice and jam from Ashim Fruit and Berry. This happens on large cars. Yeah, and then they might be going over to our new road, then? But there's something about the context here, when the representative Johansen both in his main post and now in his last post says that she trusts the predictions, and that we build for the future. That's exactly what I want to challenge the Council of States at: You've taken an assessment. I accept that you have spent time, but are you sure of this assessment, that this is the European way out of the country, into the country to see our beautiful country, for you as Minister of Transport and the Central Party Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3711	The President believes that the representative Hemdal is one of those who know that all speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3714	There has been an interesting debate so far, and what I can unfortunately record is that many election vows are worth no more than the paper they are written on, for the representative Ingjerd Schou believes that if she had now followed her election vow, it would not have been any way, and it would have delayed the whole process. Then I have to say that I find it strange that they promised it – and went high on the track in their resistance to tolls just two years ago. Then there are several people who have been concerned about how the Progress Party is going to recover the costs when we say no toll collection. The Progress Party is clear there – in December of each year, in the overall proposal, we are promoting the containment proposals. I would like to say a little about choosing a two-field road in relation to what traffic growth you expect to see in the future. We know from the E6 development through Østfold that the traffic figures with which the department came, which they expected to reach by 2020, we reached already in 2009. Then you were wrong, and the Progress Party is concerned that you are going into the same trap again. When we also know that it is much more reasonable to build a four-field road right away than to build a two-field road now to have to expand in a few years' time, it is strange that this hall is not more forward-looking. After all, we're talking about one of the main roads to Norway from the continent. Then it's nice that you're not more forward-looking. Even more particularly, we have a county plan in Eastfold that the government recently approved after two years of treatment and that adds to a significant population growth. Very well known is the County Plan of the significant population growth approved by the government with some changes, carried out after the Ministry has determined the traffic growth they expect in Eastfold. Then it might be interesting to hear how the Council of State views it in relation to the changed assumptions that have occurred since the department made its traffic analyses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3725	The case's rapporteur, Ingerd Schou, has presented the matter well and to the Right's views on this matter, so I would have imagined a small 'time out', if I could use such an expression, in this case. But it was the post to Johansen that made me ask for the word, because it was a little surprising from that edge. It was probably a little mouthhole that wasn't so logically justified. Because it is that OPS is a way of financing that significantly postpones the payment – whether it is to a private actor or project finance, for which I understand that the party to Johansen is now going into – for some years to come, yes, actually all the way up to 25-30 years. This means that the burden on the current year's budget, as Mr Schou here tried to obtain in relation to the proposals of the Progress Party, is not at all relevant to OPS or project financing. I just had to clear it up. That was also why I asked for the floor. Once I got here, I had almost said, and I think I also have to comment on this awkwardly because this is buying on payment, as it is said. The fact that we finance public projects is not anything abnormal in Norwegian administration? The last time I saw the figures, the debt burden from county councils and municipalities in this country was 230 billion. kr. What do I know, maybe it has session now? It is therefore quite common both in public and in private to finance goods in this way – goods that you will have to enjoy for many years to come, and that you will see the potential for growth, the potential for development, by taking the big promise and paying it over time. Of course it is that there will always be an alternative use of funds, as well as for the Progress Party, but the alternative application we hear very rarely. Perhaps we could have a really thorough debate on this after having had these rather'repeat'-like debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3734	I have to say that it has been quite special to listen to the debate that has taken place here today. The first thing I think has been special has been the criticism of the red-green government in terms of the pace of the deployment of E18 through Eastfold. It is such that the red-green government has stepped up the pace of the development of E18 in relation to, among other things. The Bondevik Government's own proposal for development. The reason we have done so is that this has been a very important matter for the people of Eastfold. Therefore, after listening carefully to the population in Eastfold, we have found that this is absolutely correct, also because it is one of the most trafficked tribal routes we have in Norway. And then I would say that we have actually carried out this research without the use of OPS. There's a reason we're not using OPS. It's because the experience from Sweden, the experience from England, the experience from Hungary shows that it's building a path to payoff. It binds the public budgets. In the United Kingdom, we see that every seven pounds of public budgets are tied up in OPS projects. So there's a lot of good reasons why we don't pick OPS. And I have to say that when the representative Halleraker starts talking about the alternative costs, I can promise the representative that the alternative costs of using OPS are much, much greater than the solution we have chosen, which means spending money on transportation and forcing the development of E18. In the end, I actually want to give the representative Hoksrud a little honey. He has a very good point, and that's that the Right and Christian People's Party in this case is running a game for the gallery. They're later like they're busy getting a four-field road, but they're voting for the red-green government's proposal. It's not beautiful, it's not fair, it's just a game for the gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3745	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4799]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3761	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3770	The case concerns a proposal from representatives Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen and Arne Sortevik to restrict the use of salt on Norwegian roads. There was an open hearing on the matter. There, Norway's Automobil-Verbund, Stop Veisaltingen and the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association participated. From the participants, a number of disadvantages were identified related to the extensive salt use on Norwegian roads. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. The other parties themselves will explain their views. The Progress Party wants to reduce salt use on Norwegian roads. The proposals of the Progress Party have provided a number of leads to the widest possible assessment related to salt use. The progress batch will have assessed both road safety and environmental aspects. In concrete terms, the Progress Party will have a halve of salt use from the winter season 2012/2013. Subsidy, the Progress Party will support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party. We interpret this proposal as an accession of the Right and Christian People's Party to the main wish of the Progress Party: to stop the rapidly increasing salt use and turn the trend towards much less use of salt on Norwegian roads. We are also pleased that the government parties do not reject the proposal, but attach it to the protocol. In this case, we can therefore hope that the ears of the government parties are not completely closed – or sealed with salt. Of course, it may be because the State Road Service has been doing its own salt project for almost four years, Salt SMART, but at least the road surface itself looks at salt use. En-route results have not been visible, on the contrary, the use of salt on Norwegian roads has increased during the 2007-2011 project period. This is not a hot political matter, but a matter that has a great public involvement in road accidents, salt damage on the road and vehicles and salt damage on nature and on water sources – much more than just salt spills on the smooth road. The Progress Party is familiar with the Salt SMART project. We think it's good that the building itself looks at this. But we want a broader perspective – we want input from competence outside the road network itself to ensure that ideas, hypotheses, calculations and strategies on salt use in winter maintenance of Norwegian roads are challenged. That is what the Progress Party believes is necessary. The Progress Party also notes that the use of salt on Norwegian roads has increased sharply in the four years that the project has been in progress. There are several reasons why the Progress Party addresses the strongly increasing use of salt on Norwegian roads. Salting is a consequence of the bar road strategy, which means that instead of physical bridging, chemical bridging is used. The Progress Party considers the increase and the extent of the use to be a cause for concern. We believe it is necessary to think smart and act smart, but without salt. We see a completely different development in our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland. There are two countries with which it is natural to compare, which have reduced salt use too far, and which appear to have succeeded much better than Norway in reducing fatalities and serious road accidents. The Party considers that the effect of road salinisation on road safety is far from as clear and documented as it is claimed. The Party considers that this should be verified. The point of progress shows that there are actually good reasons to claim that road salting can provide smoother road conditions and smoother tyres with reduced braking power. The Party of Advances considers that the consequential road damage after road salting is significant, both on the road surface and on the road foundation, and in particular on bridges and in tunnels where the salt dries on concrete and reinforcement iron. In fact, the last to point to consequential damage to concrete was the Landsförbund of the Houseowners in their last magazine, which came recently. In other countries, this is much clearer with consequential salt damage. In the United States, it is established that the consequential damage is 15 times the cost of salting. The party noted that the head of the Salt SMART project believes that salt use can be halved with sensible salt use. This indicates that today's use is unreasonably, at least unwise. This suggests the possibility of a large reduction in salt use. It substantiates, in the view of the Progress Party, the demand of the Progress Party that a significant reduction be possible and that it should be speeded up. It substantiates the claim that practices that have evolved over many years of high and increasing salt use have been unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3804	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3807	The discussion on road salinisation is a recurring discussion. It comes every winter, and we record that there are very different perceptions of whether salting is right, both in terms of road safety and the environment. What gives even greater ammunition to this discussion now is the enormous increase we've seen in salt use in recent years. It makes us have to stop and ask questions about whether it's right and important to use salt on the roads. For the Workers' Party, there are two questions that need to be answered: Does salting improve road safety? How does this affect the environment? The progress party already has the answers, we have registered. We're still asking the questions. The state road system, which is our professional body in this context, has so far considered that salting provides better road safety and does not unduly affect the environment. According to the letter from the Minister of Transport to the Committee, the use of salt today is the only real option for achieving good performance and road safety on the most trafficked roads in winter, but it is important to organise the use of salt to limit damage to the environment. According to the Ministry, there are no good alternatives to salt to maintain good friction throughout the winter on high-traffic roads. We are also aware that this year the State Road Administration will complete the 4-year R & D programme Salt SMART. The aim of this programme is to find out how to reduce the use of salt while maintaining good visibility and road safety during winter. The project must already have resulted in increased competence on the effects and consequences of the use of salt. As a result, adjustments are made each year to the operating contracts and their follow-up. According to the Ministry of Transport, the final results of Salt SMART will form the basis for the State Road Administration’s proposal for a strategy for the winter operation of Norwegian roads in the proposal for the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, and the government will present this to the Stortinget in the NTP winter 2013. With regard to the effect on road safety when using salt, there are also shared opinions, but the Traffic Safety Manual indicates an average effect of 15 pst. reduction in the number of injuries caused by the use of salt. We are pleased that during the course of the year the State Road Service will carry out an independent and up-to-date review of recent relevant research on the effect of salt on road safety, and look forward to its results. There is a professional disagreement about the use of road salt and the impact on road safety and the environment. We had a hearing on the representative proposal where this became very clear. The working party feels that it is urgent to put in place a new strategy for winter maintenance based on new knowledge and research on impacts both on road safety and the environment, and we therefore call for this work to be carried out. We do not have to wait until the roll-out of the national transport plan. It should be possible to speed it up. We are also concerned that the Committee's consultation on the proposal for a representative made claims that contractors salt more than what is contained in the contracts, because this is cheaper than mechanical removal of snow and ice. Therefore, we assume that the State Road Service has control procedures that detect and correct such conditions. It is totally unsustainable to use salt instead of mechanical removal of snow and ice just to save money, whether this is part of, or not part of, the operating contracts. Summary: There is a technical disagreement as to whether the use of road salt is positive for road safety and the environment. We believe it is urgent to clarify this, and ask for the work to be carried out. We also believe that it is totally unacceptable if it means that contractors salt more than what is in the contracts because this is cheaper than mechanical removal of snow and ice. This must be corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3839	In the right, we believe that the issue raised in this proposal for a representative deserves a thorough lighting. But we also record that there are different approaches to the use of road salinisation and partly conflicting facts. This has also been shown in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We believe that there is a need for a thorough review and comprehensive monitoring of the various aspects of the use of road salinisation in winter. That is why, together with the Christian People's Party, we also promote a proposal on this in the position, which I then mention. Overall consumption of road salt in Norway has undoubtedly increased in recent years. The reason for this is hoped to be illuminated in such a review, and as a result, deterioration in water quality has been demonstrated in many bodies of water and drinking water wells along the salted road network. Substantial damage to vegetation and ecosystems near salted roads has also been recorded. It is then that good road transport promotion and road safety are also of great social importance, and this is where conflicting interests lie. In the Right we have therefore noted with interest that the Swedish Road Administration is working to deliver good and safe winter operations, but with limited use of salt. There are many who are concerned about the increased salting. It appeared at the hearing, both from the NAF, from the Nature Conservation Association and several others. From these, a number of disadvantages related to extensive salt use were identified. But the benefits are, as I said, also important, and therefore it is important to review all aspects of this case. I am not sure whether the aspects that thus provide better accessibility and road safety came to light at the hearing. But in the Right, we end up with the need to develop alternative methods to meet the demand for cessation, if it goes that far, or reduced use of salt. The right and the committee are aware that a research development programme called Salt SMART is being implemented. We look forward to the conclusions of this programme. We also look forward to a proper review of the impact of salt use, and hope that the government will follow the wish we have put forward in our proposal, to which I have just referred, and come back to Stortinget with the matter, so that we can discuss it in full breadth and with new knowledge. I hope that the Council of State can get into exactly that in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3850	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3853	In the previous debate, it was a question of whether we have a socialist government. Now, under the saline, I think I'll sort this out. For me, it's the same thing if you call this government, via a ruling technique, for communist, Leninist, anarchist, environmental, trade union or whatever – the point is that the government has to renew Norway. That's what this government is doing. We use what is the slogan of the Progress Party, and then we do it. They do the same in Oslo, they do the same in Us – they renew Norway. What do they do on the Storing? Are they renewing Norway? Marking a hold on a matter is a point of view, but it's not a renewal of Norway. A scream out of solutions other than it as a multiple chooses because they want results, but there won't be much renewal of Norway. I must recommend the Progress Party to set up another strategy so that they can actually join in and renew Norway, as the Red-Green Communist Government does! Then, as the case-speaker also says, we have actually listened to the proposal, because for once there will be a proposal that the Progress Party has not intended to vote. It is a proposal which is actually a constructive input to a debate that is important and which is not initially a strong ownership of a policy that they cannot realise. That's good. I thought the case spokesperson did a good job. Actually, he's written a little bit, I've understood from the committee, but we've had a hearing, we've got knowledge of something we at least didn't have 100 pst. knowledge of already, and we continue to work on the issues to find out more. Based on what was said in the hearing of the Swedish Federation for the Protection of the Environment, I contacted the Ministry of the Environment and the authorities of pollution about why road safety did not come under it. Then I got an answer, unfortunately after the setting was made, that one is working on it. Together with the Directorate of Roads, we are just looking at the problem of the Climate and Pollution Directorate, Clif, and the Directorate of Roads. They are working on a mandate to address the environmental issue. Maybe it was just because of the hearing that we got more speed in this. A problem that has not been raised, but which we come back to in the next case about cyclists, is that the Syklistese National Association believes that salting is very bad stuff for two-wheelers and four-wheelers, like baby carriages. It becomes much heavier to get there, it gets tolerable and difficult, so that more people get away from the bike or to walk with the baby carriage because the road salt has made it so difficult to get there. There's also a problem that the government's government is going to be looking at. Finally, I am somewhat surprised that the point on which the case-speaker was also brilliantly involved is true of the economy. Is it true that the entrepreneurs simply do this because it is cheaper for them to maintain? That problem is air. There is no doubt – I see Gullvåg is also in it – that there must be something there. Then we say, on the basis of the proposal from the Progress Party, that it will be seen more closely. We want to control it, but the Progress Party is not included in the comment that we need to see if there is a problem. You don't want to see if taxpayers' money is spent wisely in the entrepreneurial business. It seemed to me to be a little strange, and it requires an explanation from the Progress Party, which has drawn up a commendable proposal, to which the government party clearly shows that they are listening. They listen to the Progress Party when they come up with proposals that there is something in it, and that are not self-marking on tolls and things that I think are starting to get boring to debate, because one knows that in practical politics where one has power, one does this to get it done, and then one would like to be able to renew Norway. I hope that the Progress Party can eventually join the Red-Green Socialists and renew Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3874	The centre party is pleased that this debate has been raised. There is no doubt that there is an increasing consumption of road salt. It shows the winter clearly. Deterioration of water quality has been demonstrated in several bodies of water and drinking water wells along the salted road network. Also damage to vegetation and ecosystems near salted roads has been recorded. We have recorded from the debate in Oslo that trees in urban parks or areas where it is salting are being damaged. This, in conjunction with claims that contractors salt more than those contained in the contracts, and that there is a professional disagreement about the use of road salt and its impact on road safety and the environment, calls for the continuation of work on a new winter maintenance strategy in order to emphasise these conditions. The results of the Salt SMART project to the Norwegian Road Administration, together with an independent and up-to-date review of recent relevant research on the impact of the salt on road safety, will form the basis for the strategy for the winter operation of Norwegian roads in the proposal for NTP 2014-2023. The centre party assumes that the State Road Service has control procedures that reveal any salting beyond what is contained in the contracts and that in that case it will be corrected so that what we may call oversalting does not take place. Furthermore, we ask that work on a strategy for winter maintenance be carried out in such a way as to maintain good visibility and road safety in winter, while at the same time preserving nature and water sources in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3887	I want to confirm what was the case spokesman's comment on the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party. That is precisely what our main wish is for this proposal: to reverse developments, but also to review them. This is a problem that I think it has been exciting to follow, and as I think it is very clear that we need to get a closer look at. It's because the hearing and the recordings we've been given have been so very clear that there are different professional approaches to what's going on on the road, and that there's very motivating facts attached to this. That's why it's the Christian People's Party's desire to get a thorough review and a mapping. That, of course, means we have to be based on factual knowledge. I am not going to draw this debate out by going into my assessments of the different facts and professional approaches. What is the wish of the Christian People's Party is that we get a case back. We want to be clean to the government and give it the opportunity to do it its own way, because this is a matter that we think we need to clarify, based on two main arguments. One is road safety. It is important that we have the road salinity that is best in terms of road safety. The second main argument is, of course, the environmental perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3896	I would first like to thank the Progress Party for this draft representative. Traffic security is, as the Left sees it, the most important transport politicians can operate with. Road salinisation, which is a theme here today, can be a good measure to ensure road safety in some sections of the road, especially on high-traffic highways, when used under proper winter conditions. At the same time, new research has been carried out, which has also shown that road salinisation can lead to accidents, including: because the road salt is used incorrectly, corrodes the brakes, reduces the visibility and causes drivers to run faster than the conditions indicated. In the debate on the road standard in the various states of Stortinget on 3 May this year, I asked Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa if she thought that excessive road salinisation could be one of the causes of the poor road standard, as some researchers suggest. At this, the Melting Group replied: ‘I agree with Borghild Tende that excessive salting may have led to oozing.’ In addition, as many have said, more and more research reports suggest a link between road salinisation and adverse impacts on vegetation and watercourses. In Akershus we have an example of this – more specifically in Follo. In 2007, Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsette told Stortinget that water management plans were likely to have a direct impact on the use of chemicals on Norwegian roads. Nevertheless, road salt use has more than doubled since then. When new research is being carried out, among others: from Sweden, suggests that road safety does not necessarily increase, but can also be reduced by faults and unnecessary use of road salinisation, I believe it is important for the government to take action to reduce salt use. That shouldn't be difficult, because there are many other good alternatives for smaller roads, such as roads. mechanical incubation and spreading of heated sand. I have also asked the Minister for Transport whether she can guarantee that economic considerations are not taken into account in the environmental aspects of road use. Economic considerations may seem to be the cause of road salt use, and not necessarily road safety, in some cases. I have received signals that some private operators have agreements that reward increased salt use rather than other alternatives. The use of salt is a cheaper alternative in isolation, but I think that the calculation will show differently, including the total costs of environmental, car and concrete damage. For us in the Left, it is an important principle that the polluter should pay the cost of pollution. I believe that salt use would have been greatly reduced if environmental degradation were to be paid by the polluters. With this I warn you that the Left supports the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3921	We're salting a lot on our roads. Salt consumption will vary from year to year, based on climate variations and the winter strategy for operations implemented. The figure for salt consumption for winter 2010–2011 is not quite clear yet, but preliminary figures from the State Road Administration report that it may have used about 330,000 tonnes of salt in winter wintertime operations that was. Salt use has increased since 2006. It's a challenge that both I and the State Road Administration are taking seriously. A lot of work is done to apply less salt to future maintenance. Salt may be harmful to fresh water, soil and vegetation along the road network. A study a few years ago showed that many lakes along the most trafficked road network have standing, low-oxygen bottom water as a result of road salting. The state road system is now re-examined in fresh water along the road network. For water sources, the requirement for drinking water is important. The state road authority cooperates with the Food Authority and local waterworks to ensure that vegetal salt does not contaminate drinking water. As far as the state road system is concerned, there is no waterworks in the vicinity of being above the maximum level that is legal for the content of chloride and sodium in drinking water due to road salting. Despite the fact that the salting has unfortunate environmental effects that we have to counteract, it is still such that salting is an important tool in winter maintenance. The need for road safety is important here. Roads must be clear of snow and ice to such an extent that wintering is safe. Even if we want to reduce salt use, especially in terms of the environment, it's not going to come from the fact that the use of salt under the right conditions gives better grip and removes snow and ice efficiently. Here I underline the right properties; salt is not a universal resource. It has to be, for example: not used when cold. The efforts to reduce the use of salt take place through several processes. There are many environments that research these questions, both in Norway and internationally. Let me particularly point to the State Road Administration's R & D project Salt SMART. The aim of the project is that the State Road Agency's efforts to maintain the emergence and traffic safety in winter should not cause unacceptable damage to the environment. Salt SMART focuses on the distance salt consumption, with a special emphasis on reducing the consumption of sections that are particularly vulnerable to natural damage. The work on Salt SMART has been concentrated on improving knowledge by identifying problem areas, developing methodology, documenting operational phase experience, etc. One must also gain experience from other countries with the same climate as ours, where one has managed to reduce salt use. The state road authority states that the results of Salt SMART will be timely so that we can use the results of work on the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. Although this is a priority work, we will unfortunately not be able to change salt practices overnight. The reason for this is that new requirements have to be tested. These requirements will be gradually incorporated into external environmental plans, in manuals and in the competitive basis for new supply. An important grip now is, among other things, to identify new mechanical methods for the effective removal of snow and ice from roads. The Road Service of the State, as I have written to the Committee, will carry out during the year an independent and up-to-date review of newer and relevant exploration of its impact on road safety. It's an important job. The state's road system prioritises both getting its salt effect on cleanness and at the same time developing new ways of effectively removing snow and ice from the roads. I believe that what has emerged through the Committee's hearing underlines the importance of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3944	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3947	Can the Council confirm that the use of salt is linked to the strategy to have roads only? That's the one. The second is a question related to the opinion of the head of this project that Vegvesen itself has, Salt SMART. In any case, according to the media, he says that with sensible use of salt, you can halve the amount of salt. What is the state council’s view of a practice that has evolved over many years — including the last four years of this project — when the conclusion of the one set to look at salt use is that with sensible use one can actually halve the consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3954	On the first question: it is such that the issue of road safety is overarching. The roads shall be clear of snow and ice to such an extent that it is safe to run during wintering. So for a statement from the State Road Administration. I thought it underlined the importance of this particular project Salt SMART and the launch of independent research in this area. What's a dilemma, of course, is that there's different vision here. If it hadn't, this case would have been much easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3961	It is true that Sweden has halved its salt use. Finland has reduced even more, and it is known that salt is not used in either the United States or Canada. These countries are all Arctic countries with significant similarities with Norway. Road safety is also a major concern of countries. How can it be that Norway has such a different starting point for treating salt on its roads than in the other countries that belong in the same Arctic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3966	Some of the explanations of different practices from country to country here are that the winter climate is different. Finland, for example, has a more stable winter climate than we have, and can therefore use another form of winter maintenance. At the same time, I just have to say that during the hearing, during the committee's clarification of this matter, I think it has come up with good arguments both to finish this project, Salt SMART, and to look at that issue more closely, because none of us want a winter maintenance that goes beyond the environment and health. That was the opposite of what was meant here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3973	To nuance the last line a little: the whole of Norway does not have an arctic climate. That's a little bit of my point. In large parts of the country, there is no alternative to break. The thing is that there are constantly changing temperatures and between the rain showers that make us get hit on the road, and at least at this time you haven't come up with anything that solves it any better than salt. It's about road safety, really. It is about having safe roads for large and heavy car combinations, among other things, that you should not be afraid to meet them around a turn on the icy road. I just want to repeat what is in the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party. Will the Council of State come back to the Storting with a broad approach to this rather soon, so that we can have a new and good debate on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3980	It has been said from the Swedish Road Administration, which I have also sent to the Committee in a letter, that they expect to have the results of their project, Salt SMART, in time to present it as one of many bases in the preparation of the new national transport plan – i.e. in the winter of 2013. When it comes to the independent review that the State Road Service has this year, I would say that if it is possible to get this up to the Stortinget earlier, I will do my part to ensure that we have a wide debate before the National Transport Plan in 2013. There is also much else to debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3987	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e3992	This proposal is important. Even if we don't get an impact on that today, I'm pretty sure we're going to get right in our claims. Despite the Salt SMART project, to which the others refer, today we are cleaning out the road salt that we have never done before. 330000 tonnes are pulverised on the roads, with no evidence of good credibility in terms of road safety gains. Sweden and Finland reduce their use of salt. Sweden and Finland have no worse traffic damage than Norway — on the contrary. They have far fewer serious accidents than us, despite the fact that they use far less salt than us. In the United States and Canada, road salt is categorised as poison, and according to their research, the effect in a maintenance perspective is that road salting results in up to 15 times more expensive operation and maintenance of roads. On a journey The party's fraction did in Poland, where we studied motorways and how they dealt with salting, we saw that it was constructed viaducts after the motorways – miles by mile – that collected the road salt and led it to large collection chambers. And why? Of course, the Poles are aware that this is a poison, and they don't want to spread this poison into nature. Has anyone, ever, thought at all in Norway? Here we put out a poison. The use of salt has exploded during the Salt SMART project. Even our own drinking water reservoirs are being added to this poison. Salting as much as is being done today can best be compared to peeing in your pants. It warms for a little while, but physically, how boring it gets after some time. Yes, the Vegvessen saves money there and there, but the bill over time I'm ugly that can be incredibly much higher than most people are able to dream about. We want to spend more money on winter maintenance without salt – no doubt about it – but society as a whole will make enormous use of less salt. We know that the greatest impacts of ice explosion occur in the transition from ice to water. Normally, our pathways will experience this process a few times a year without salt, but with salt this chemical process that the salt produces will lead to the ice explosion going on almost continuously for months. It's not that our roads are without cracks, cracks, and holes that make the salt not need to penetrate almost everywhere, not least into the very foundation of the road? What effect this has on roads, maintenance and damage is hanging in the air, but I can't possibly imagine that it's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4003	I feel a certain need to stress that it is not the State Road Service that salts the roads any longer. It is the contractors, and it makes them all over-measures, because the speech of the figures is quite clear: before the competitive outsourcing of the road service and maintenance tasks of the State, we spent years about another. 100 000 tonnes of salt on Norwegian roads. So this winter we have risen to 330,000 tonnes of salt on the roads – a multiple of the salt use. The reason is, in my opinion, quite clear. The contractors' salts rather than breaking because it's cheaper. Entrepreneurs have contracts where the cheapest solution is the best solution, because it increases their own profits, although it undoubtedly contributes to increasing government expenditure both in the short and longer term — suboptimising the very best brand. And we're now going to see the result. Never have we had as bad asphalt cover as after this winter, despite the fact that we spend more money on operations and maintenance than ever. As you can see, this is a tab of a much larger and more important debate. I do not expect the opposition parties to recognise system errors that they themselves have created, or that they should be able to see any coherence in the systems. But the longer we wait to attack the nothing at the root, namely, the milking of the operating and maintenance market by the contractors, the greater the impact will be. I no longer think we should consider that increasing costs are incurred, while maintenance is only getting worse, while at the same time reducing road standards. I don't think it's a goal in itself to fill the entrepreneurs' rich pockets with additional funds. There won't be any more money on the way. That is why I am pleased with an emerging debate in several states, including the United Kingdom. in my own, where you look not only at the contract management, but also at whether it makes sense to take back the maintenance tasks on the roads. Here we are at the heart of the matter. We now need a complete road maintenance summer as winter, which extends the road life, does not break the tyres and the road body down. We need to regain competence in maintenance. I would like to return briefly to the time when we had road workers who knew something about the road, who knew where it was getting smooth early, and who salted there and not over everything. I want road workers who understand that it must be broken before it is to be salted, not the other way around. We do not acquire that competence through companies that like to use foreign hired labour for the performance of the tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4015	It was my intention that this should be the last post, but I am not sure when I get the comments from the representative of Gullvåg, who is also wrong in this case, but who comes with a rather expected post. I've actually talked to some smaller entrepreneurs who work out practical and actually with road maintenance. It is such that they have received their assignment from others – i.e. from the Weighing Company – and they receive the follow-up of the assignment, given by the Weighing Company. What they're saying is they have a clear message about putting on salt. So it's not the little contractor who does it himself, but there are signals from those who have given them the assignment, and there are signals from those who have the follow-up to the assignment. It's a rather different story than the one that Gullvåg was now up and told. That brings me to a small greeting to the representative of Langeland from the Socialist Left Party. It is true that when socialists talk about renewal, it often becomes change, but without improvement, or it becomes conservation. Someone even wants to go back to the distant past, as we now heard from the representative of Gullvåg. That being said, we who have submitted the proposal record that it has actually received a friendly reception. We're not spoiled in this room, because here you have a back reflex that suggestions from the Progress Party are hardly worth reading. But we record that the proposal has actually received a friendly reception. We are pleased to note that the representative Hareide has confirmed my interpretation, that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are out to reverse developments. So is the Progress Party. I have also listened with pleasure to the contribution made by the Minister for Transport, which confirms that this is something you look at with great seriousness and with great weight, and that you are prepared to do perhaps something more, and earlier, than what you originally announced. That's the way we have to say we're satisfied with it. I think the most important thing is that we get more focus on the use of salt. I want to end by saying that there is a very clear connection, in the view of the Progress Party, between this barway strategy and the use of salt. We are critical of the strategy that leads to incorrect use of tools, and we hope that it will be part of the investigation and assessment, and that perhaps the path strategy needs to be substantially changed in order to avoid the clear disadvantages of salt use, without well-documented gains in road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4030	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 4799]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4046	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4055	I have to say that what the Progress Party calls a ‘socialist government’ was, in fact, now boasted of the Progress Party that one was listening to their proposals. So that's a progress both for the Progress Party and for socialism. So let's say that now we're going to switch to the same profile that the red-green government had in the previous case. So we are listening to good suggestions. In this case, the Christian People's Party will not necessarily ride against the stars, but at least make people ride more. There we – not least through our response to the Committee, but also in cooperation with the red-green politicians here – have tried to get the Christian People's Party's proposals to a large extent. We have also, of course, listened to the Cyclistene National Association and other groups working to make more use of bicycles. It is therefore with some wonder that the Christian People's Party well to maintain all the five proposals today. They're not listed yet, but at least that's the starting point. Let us take the suggestions points by point. The first is extra information work. We have it in many ways already agreed in the present NTP, but then it's the time when one can get started with this. As the Council of State writes, we shall have a start on this in 2012, a proper campaign to meet national transport plans, but also what the Christian People's Party repeats in its proposal. But we're now in a screening phase, so we're going to kind of create the interaction that's going to give you the information package that's needed to make your work better. Then, too, the Christian People's Party takes up a proposal for a reward scheme. When you look at the number of bicycles around, Norway is 4-5 pst., Sweden is up in 12 pst., and Danish is up in 17 pst. And there are big differences between cities. In my city there is 5 pst., in Bergen there is 3 pst., in Drammen there is 3 pst., while one in Kristiansand, for example, is up to 9 pst., and Trondheim has 8 pst. They have now submitted an environmental package in Red-Green Trondheim of 650-800 million. kr, to provide better walking and cycling roads for more people to ride. It's very positive. Several cities and municipalities can do this without us imposing it on them by Stortinget. However, when it comes to the reward scheme, the majority in their opinion that of course this should be assessed, then in the context of the revision of the NTP in 2013. So we come up with that proposal in a positive way in my opinion. Then the proposers are concerned that one must have more emphasis on planning and development. The government is also taking action. There, the State Road Administration cooperates with municipalities and county municipalities. In 2013, all agglomerations with more than 5000 inhabitants shall have such a plan for development. Then we met that proposal also from the Christian People's Party. Then it's a little bit more complicated, but still we also meet the Christian People's Party when it comes to traffic rules. There's simply how we look at the curfew rules. It's now out at the hearing. We have said, and we also write in the setting, that we should evaluate the whole code in connection with NTP, among other things, and consider including the dot tax system for drivers who behave badly or run counter to the search lists. So the only point that I see is that we're clear that we don't want to do anything until an NTP 2012 assessment, is this with a requirement of 1.5 meters distance from the car to the bike. I want to encourage the Christian People's Party, based on the positive attitude of the government, the Council of State and the Government Party in relation to the Christian People's Party's proposals, to consider not to allow themselves to vote on proposals that have actually been taken care of in the setting of the red-green parties. So now the Christian People's Party has got a feeling about what it's like to be inside the government heat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4083	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job with a proposal for a representative that addresses many good and important questions regarding the accessibility of cyclists. The Labour Party is fundamentally in favour of the proposals. Some of them are already under work, others may be relevant. I'll come up with the suggestions later in the post, but first let me say this: Bicycle drums all other modes of transport in terms of cutting emissions, both of greenhouse gases and local pollution. Bike drums all other means of transport from a public health perspective. But let me remind the cyclists that they don't trump traffic rules, and that they also have to follow them. But that also applies to the drivers. Too many drivers have, at best, an unhealthy attitude towards the cyclists. Proposals by the proposers include: increasing awareness-raising for better interaction between road users. I am pleased that the government has already announced such work in the National Road Safety Action Plan. The state road authority is collecting facts and documentation. The policy campaign will start in 2012. I would particularly like to stress that the opinions and experiences of the cyclists must be taken into account in that work. We have a much greater potential for cycling in Norway than we have now been able to exploit, as the rapporteur was in the case. The government aims to double the share of cyclists in the current NTP period. The proposers want their own reward system for bicycles, in line with that of public transport. I would like to remind you that in today's reward scheme for better public transport, it is also possible to introduce positive measures aimed at pedestrians and cyclists. For example, West Agder/Kristiansand — in a four-year reward agreement — spent 10 million. of the rewards they received in 2010 for walking and cycling measures. The working party is also not opposed to a separate reward scheme for bicycles and considers that the natural timing of any discussion will be associated with the rolling of the national transport plan. But I have to add: a reward scheme for bicycles must, in line with that for public transport, also contain an element of car-restrictive measures. As a current example, it may be mentioned to remove street parking in order to facilitate bicycle routes, which I know are difficult for the city council here in the city, but which could be an example of a current action. It is important to ensure that the development and planning of bicycle paths does not lose in the fight against the cars. It is a goal that all agglomerations/citys with more than 5000 inhabitants should have continuous cycling networks. Every year, two thirds of all cities and cities have adopted plans for a main road network for bicycles. The last third is coming along. I have a formula that I often think about, and that's P=1/2 J – planning is half the job. With the plans at the bottom you can start the development, but then the bike path must be given priority, especially in the urban packages. Bicycles cannot become a balancing item for the larger and heavier investment projects, and county municipalities must use the money they receive, and not put it on book, as in Akershus, where the red-green opposition has proposed to spend more on the pedestrian and cycle path than the blue-blue-yellow board in Akershus. I mentioned the importance of respecting traffic rules for both drivers and cyclists. The draft representative raises questions as to whether the legislation is sufficiently clear. Many suggest that this is not the case, and the Ministry of Transport already has a proposal to clarify the rules on compulsory leave for treatment. So the proposal from the Christian People's Party is to enter an already open door. I am also pleased that the large majority of the committee, minus the Progress Party, are involved in asking the Council to consider whether the whole code of cyclists should be reviewed, including whether the dot load system should be relied on for unwitting driving to or too close to the passing of cyclists. We do not support the proposal for a 1.5-metre rule now, but it may be relevant to discuss this again later. Bicycles do not solve all transport problems, but have a great untapped potential in the vicinity of transport in most places, and not least in urban areas, where people have to drive smaller cars, we have to solve environmental and accessibility problems. The state must contribute funds and development on the roads for which we are responsible, but the counties and municipalities must also do the job. They also have to dry down to give the bicycles space at the expense of the cars, especially in the larger cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4104	The representative de Ruiter said before I went up to the pulpit that there has been a lot of discussion about the four-field road today, so maybe we should suggest a four-field highway for the cyclists too. But I don't intend to do that. Then I register that the representative Gorm Kjernli, and to the extent that Hallgeir Langeland too, is concerned that the drivers are the big ugly wolf. I feel that this can be divided very well into two. By this morning it was interesting to experience a cyclist in free play on the road, and it was definitely not a good experience. So it's probably like there's bad drivers, and there's bad cyclists. As in most areas, there are both good and bad. Some people are good at following the traffic rules of both drivers and cyclists, and some are not. There, I think everyone has to take their responsibility and not – as I both feel that some newspapers and others in this room before me have been very busy – shoot at the drivers. But to the proposal: I perceive that what you add up to, and what the proposers want, and I very much agree with, is that more people should use bicycles as a means of transport. Yes, there are many good things in the proposal that the Christian People's Party presents. But if you are to take the wishes of the proposers into account, there is also a need for money, and a lot of money is needed. Unfortunately, I must say that this has not been followed up to this extent in the alternative state budgets of the Christian People's Party. The question to the representative Hareide must be where he intends to take the money for all these good but very expensive proposals from. Are the drivers to be taken and flogged even more, or are they to be taken from the railway, or are they public transport, or are new, fresh money to come? Because if the Christian People's Party is going to implement that the drivers are going to drive at least 1.5 meters on the outside of the cyclist – yes, with the challenges you have in many places in this country, not least in the West, I am happy to see the trailer that is going to drive past 1.5 meters on the outside of the cyclist when it hits him on some of the bad Western roads. It's not physically possible. Or to the extent that to take it in the city we're in now, or in some other cities, it's almost hopeless to be able to drive 1.5 meters on the outside of the cyclist. So I'm very excited about how the representative Hareide, and to the extent that all the others who are positive about this, should be able to get to it in a short-term way when you know how sparkling they are, and how hard it is to get extra money out for infrastructure measures. The Progress Party will ensure that there are better bike paths and pedestrian paths, but we believe that it must be part of the overall infrastructure construction and therefore refer to our proposals for a strong redeployment of road construction and road safety and the development of the route and cycle path, as we do. have proposed in the major urban package, contained in the proposal for a national transport plan, which shall be valid for more than 10 years. This will significantly improve the framework conditions of the cyclists in the future. To the dot load system: This is how the Progress Party believes, and has always thought that this is a bad solution. We also believe that research has been able to prove that it has not had the desired effect. That is why we are also opposed to introducing a dot load system in this area when we are opposed to it in the other areas. We have clearly stated that we are opposed to assessing the dot load system in the proposal of the Christian People's Party. But there are many good wishes and many good intentions here. I think perhaps introducing reward schemes in all sorts of possible areas is not the easiest thing to do. Today, we have Action School Path, how much of the money actually goes into walking and cycling to improve the situation for young people, and I think maybe you should consider expanding and strengthening that system, because there are a lot of state politicians, many teams and associations and other organisations locally want to strengthen. So maybe it should be better than setting up a new system for just walking and cycling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4119	Me and the Right do not see this as an attack on the drivers of the Christian People's Party, nor is that how to perceive from our part, which has gone into part of these proposals and comments. Rather, on the contrary, we have great sympathy for the initiative that has been taken, and for the debate that the Christian People's Party is raising in this matter. The right has presented two important documents for our transport policy in the future. It's the Right Transport Plan, and it's our collective plan for the development of the big cities in the future. In the Right Transport Plan, which we presented two years ago, we describe a comprehensive and new transport policy that also includes cyclists. Here we are going to call for such a 50-million reward scheme. kr to just cycling measures. That is why, of course, we also support today's proposal. To this end, with incentive schemes, some of which are somewhat skeptical: I think we should look at the experience of the reward scheme on public transport with eyes that records that it has been a great success really. So now we're up to 431 million. kr for the current year. It was launched by the Bondevik II government, with an amount that was, I had almost said, ten percent of this when you started. So here we have seen a great success that has worked, and we also get feedback from those who have used it. So I actually believe in schemes like this, which are going to be exactly the little extra that makes cities take action. With regard to the collective plan for big cities, we pay particular attention to cycling measures, because we see that we are not addressing the major challenge that comes especially in our major urban areas, without taking part of the increased transport and mobility needs on bicycles and times. And that's why it's especially important to organize for this. Many other countries have arranged for extensive cycling tourism. You base your travel experience on bicycles. We from the Right have put a little note about it in the setting and consider it almost like an incubator that no more have supported it, because the one we actually think has quite a lot to do. We get feedback from many who have been on this type of holiday in other countries. You report great natural experiences that you get a lot closer to when you experience this at a slightly slower pace than with a car, and you get to places and roads that you usually don't travel. It can also provide a new contribution to tourism in Norway. For this very reason and for the reasons I have mentioned before, we believe that bicycle solutions must be included as a natural part of all the planning of new infrastructure. We almost get a win-win situation: it serves public health, you get a bigger experience along the way, and it eases the pressure on both road solutions and collective solutions in the big cities in the future. So this is a good thing. There's a lot of consensus, and that's good. Now it's interesting to see the follow-up from the government. Langeland almost made it sound as if this were his suggestion, and that it was annoying to record that the Christian People's Party had not drawn on its proposals even since he agreed with them. That's what I think was a bit of a funny attitude. I guess it's called democracy, or another foreign word is maybe dialectic -- things are swinging. I have to draw Langeland's attention to the fact that the opposition's role is to press the government into matters that the government eventually agrees with. I am addressing the proposals to which the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4140	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4143	I myself have as Minister of Environmental Protection with Hallgeir Langeland in opposition, and I know that he knows what the role of the opposition is. I want to thank you for the good words from everyone, in fact, who has taken the floor in this case, but I want to give a special tribute to the case spokesman, who I feel has done a very, very good job here, which means that we have a multiple for both a better and more offensive bike policy. I'm very happy, because I think that bike is very brilliant with the life we live today, where we're more and more at rest, where many of us have a job that doesn't allow us to move like we were in the past. Then the bike is brilliant to get to and from work. And, not least, we have a climate challenge that gets bigger and bigger, and then, as Gorm Kernli said, bikes are the most environmentally friendly option. But it's a little paradox: while cycling interest in Norway may be bigger than ever, it's like when the Birkebeinerritt has a call at 0 p.m. 10 and we've seen the meeting here in the hall, we're when we're back in the office, because we're late to get a seat in the Birkebeiner Rit, because that's the full picture. Bike interest is greater than ever, but the number of those who ride bicycles is still falling. From 2005 to 2009, it went down from 5 pst. to 4 pst. And it's even more dramatic when we know that from 1992 it went down from 7 pst. and to the 4 pst. which we had in 2009. When we look at the number of age groups aged 14-17, it was 15 pst. in 1992, and today the number is down to 9 pst. There are dramatic figures, and it shows that there is a need for good policy action. Therefore I am very pleased with the signals coming from the plural, especially from the government party.' When it comes to the reward scheme, getting your own cycling reward scheme is a very good measure. I want to use two foundations for that. The only thing is that we have had a reward scheme for public transport that has been very good. I think this bike system can be just as good. So it's right, as they say, that there are some cities that can join the reward scheme that is today, but it's the biggest cities. So a lot of the cities that call themselves bicycle cities can't be part of the reward scheme we have for public transport. That's why it's very good to have a reward scheme for a bike, and if it comes to it, I'd like to call it the Langeland scheme. I have also noticed the positive will that we see when it comes to the legislation on cyclists. There is a need to look at the security associated with the lists. Public statistics on road accidents involving sick people show that two out of three accidents occur in connection with crossings. In the period 2005–08, 2 900 accidents involving sick people were recorded. 1 809 of these happened across the board, a total of 277 road accidents, and 18 of the 33 road accidents involving killed cyclists between 2005 and 2008 were cross-checked. So our measure is going to be 8 pst. like bicycles. In the Netherlands the number is up to 27 p.m., in Denmark there are 17 p.m., and in Sweden there are 10 p.m. That's why it's important that we make sure that it's safer to ride a bicycle, safer to ride a bicycle. It's important. That is why I want to present the proposals in the vote on behalf of the Christian People's Party. So I feel that one has come to the Christian People's Party in a very good way, and I want to assess whether some of the proposals are going to be transmission proposals. But I'll wait until I hear the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4160	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the three proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4163	First, thank you to the Christian People's Party for taking the right and important initiative for the cyclists. A little trip across Skagerrak to our neighbor in the south, Denmark, tells me that these proposals had benefited from being adopted here today. I'll be brief, but I'd like to inform you that the Left will support the minority proposals, which would hardly surprise anyone. The left has already proposed in its alternative state budget a reward scheme for cyclists, following the model of the reward scheme of the Left Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm set up for the big cities. We have also proposed a reward scheme for cyclists in our revised budget, which comes up on Friday. There are local elections for the autumn, and some of the most important cycling initiatives take place in the municipalities. A renewable cycle lift is a lift for climate, urban air and health budget. It is also linked to the responsibility of municipalities in terms of preventive health work, as many from the government parties have also spoken about in the first debate here today, namely on the Reform of Cooperation. It is therefore a little strange that the same parties are voting down this proposal this evening. So, the representative, Gorm Kjernli, repeats the untruth that Akershu's phylking puts money on the book instead of betting on the bike. I have a good dialogue with the majority in Akershus. They are responsible for economic policy. They spend the money once, while the opposition in Akershu uses it several times and for different purposes. The majority of the county added some funds to the budget, but there was free funding as a result of the administrative reform. In the previous debate, the representative Kjernli would use this money on his way, now he wants to spend it on bicycles. The representative of Kernli will have to decide soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4175	I started this day in the Sund municipality. The gallant opening of a new county road, once and a cycle road, Eide–Vorland, 3.2 km – rain and wind, music towns, which are always in place when something is to be celebrated, many happy people. There was the seventh parcel of walking and cycling in Sund during the ten years they had worked on this. They underlined what they had been given when the action package came and it was possible for anyone who had plans to clear the drawers and start. They underlined how they had always had a strategy to have plans ready in case they were going to realize at a speed. They had, in addition to planes, through walking and cycling roads, provided water and fibre. They had at all – instead of what many municipalities do, dig up and dig down, dig up and dig down – put a lot in context and arranged both for a safe school road and for more well-being for people who want to go and ride. An example for follow-up. So I think it's nice to end this day with a debate about how we can get more people to ride. Bicycles are health, environment and emergence. I am very pleased that for the first time we see a decline in the use of a car in connection with work trips in the Austland area. There's more like bicycles, there's more going, and there's more traveling collectively than before, but it's quite obvious that if we're going to get this more systematic, we need a more coherent bike road network. So now there's a strategy where 27 cities with over 5,000 inhabitants have just set up a coherent walk-and-bike road network. The government has 500 km of walking and cycling roads as its objective during the national transport planning period. We've increased our effort by 150 pst. since the previous national transport plan. I think it's important to contribute to local efforts where there is local willingness for creative solutions, as we saw in Sund, and as we see in Lesja. There they're actually going to put together the interlinked walk and cycle path along the E136 through the entire Lesya. The landowners have given 100 dens of food soils. A lot of work has been done, as well as government, county and municipal funds. There is something about local will giving results. It also tells of the efforts of Kristiansand and Trondheim. So there's the bicycle part that doubles the mean. I'm not going to tell you if it's the reward scheme that's turned on directly, but it's at least that in the reward scheme that we have today, having a bicycle road network is also a matter of its own. To the other proposals of the Christian People's Party, as they are made today, the case-speaker has gone through them thoroughly, and I have little to add. But since the leaders of the committee want the Council of State to receive them, let me say that there will be an information campaign in 2012. We're looking at our own reward scheme in the next NTP. Today, we use the system we have, to strengthen public transport, pedestrian and bicycle roads. The importance of bicycle traffic shall be taken into account in the planning and development of new infrastructure. We're looking at clearer traffic rules. The 1.5 meter rule that one here wants to fit, I want to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4193	Then we almost felt that the Council of State wanted the blessing of parts of the proposal in its final article. What I want to ask the Council of State questions is what we see. We see that the number shows a decrease from 7 pst. in 1992 to 4 p.m. Today, and when you look at the age group 14–17, one in the same period has had a decrease of 15 pst. to 9 pst. This may have caused more computer games and so on. We've had a goal in this period of going in the positive direction, and then we see that we've gone in the negative direction. So my question is: will the Council of State now raise this area so strongly that we can reverse the negative developments that we are now seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4200	Cycling is health, environment and emergence. Therefore, it is vital that we give it unrelenting priority from government and accumulation in all our work. Information campaigns are important for these reasons, and so it is important to organise them. What is decisive is just the local arrangement. So I've asked myself the question, what is it that's hiding behind these numbers? It may actually be the case that one of these comes from more going, and that several travel collectively rather than using a car. But I think there's every reason both to be concerned and to step up the effort. We've said in the national transport plan context from the government that we want to have the number of school pupils between 6 and 15 years of age cycling, up from 60 pst. to 80 pst. We're not there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4207	I feel that with regard to the two proposals on which the Right and the Christian People's Party stand together, there are very clear and strong signals from the government and government parties. That's very good. Then it's a little tempting to turn the mirror around and ask if it couldn't be an idea to vote for two good proposals that you're in favour of, instead of spending time recommending that proposals, which you're in agreement with then, should be drawn, so that you get the opportunity to promote them yourself at a later stage. I believe that if the Council of State gave it advice to its co-representatives in the Red-Green parties, we would have a large majority for the two proposals. Can the Council of State imagine that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4212	It is up to the Storting Authority to assess how it will handle the various proposals that have been made. When I'm fundamentally in favour of the initiatives proposed in the proposals, and the case-speaker, from SV, and the other red-green parties strike the same thing, it's because we're actually happy to announce that several of these proposals that are being made are, to a large extent, already under way. The size does not tend to have the habit of voting for proposals that are already in good working order. I note that there is a broad agreement here that bicycles are health, environment and development, and that we need to strengthen our resolve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4221	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4226	Bike is good for the environment, bike is good for people's health, and bike is good for the mood, too, if you ask me. But bicycles also, unfortunately, involve great risks. So measures to increase the bicycle share are important, but at the same time you also have to make it safer to ride. As we started the debate here today, I was online reading the Trønder-Avisa. The main settlement there was: «Cyclist collided with a car. [[12]] Cargoed to doctors with moderate or minor injuries.’ Luckily, it went relatively well this time – after all. The cyclist was supposed to cross the road and drive into a slow-moving car. Being a cyclist is the most difficult role in traffic. For ‘Syclist’, there is no specific group of road users, either travelling or walking in relation to traffic rules. So this is what we're going to teach our kids. We're going to teach our kids that they're walking when they choose to ride on the pavement, and that they're running when they choose to ride in the road. This is hard. If you ride in the road, you're running. If you're going through a cross, the usual cancellation rules are the same as for cars. If you're riding on the pavement, you're walking, you're going to have to get off the bike and cross the pavement if the drivers are going to have to give you a break. So this is what the kids are going to learn. They have to remember it. I see daily adults who haven't learned this – or who don't remember it. So bike rules are hard. That's why it's a good idea to have a review. I tested myself in the test on the road system.no today – and I did not manage all the tasks that a cyclist should do. It indicates that either I have something wrong with it, or the rules are wrong with it – and I choose to believe the last of them, of course. Therefore, I hope that this review that you have now ends in a simplification of traffic rules, and that you assess whether the cyclists are actually going to be a specific group of road users. Now when discussing measures against cyclists, not least in terms of safety, it surprises me a little bit that not the Christian People's Party in the same round is discussing this with a bicycle helmet. Should we have bike helmet instructions? I think that's a real and important discussion. I basically think that we should have had it. Bicycle helmets are for cyclists the same as seat belts are for drivers. In addition, helmets are available in many variants. I've seen a picture of the Minister of Transport with a fine helmet, and last week I got a beautiful helmet, which looks like a hat, in a gift from Trygg Trafik in the Nord-Trøndelag. We must also discuss such matters. In terms of walking and cycling routes, I just want to say the following: all of a sudden, the most important thing is that we get walking and cycling routes in a perimeter of the schools, first in a radius of 2 km, then in a perimeter of 4 km. If you're going to look at a reward scheme or a reintroduction of the Aktion school road, we should start there. First the school road for the kids, it should be secured.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4246	I have previously spent six years in the city council, in the plan selection in Arendal, and I have participated in building walking and cycling paths in many places in my dear municipality. Great is often the disappointment when I rarely or never see the cyclists use this precious bike path. They always drive on the road – with a few exceptions. Then I often wonder if they like bicycles, really want a bike path and safe bike paths, and if there's any sense in affording this. You might want to introduce some kind of dot load on cyclists who don't use available, expensive bike path. There is certainly nothing more irritating — and not least dangerous — than that a cyclist hinders traffic, and there is a full cycle path next to it that no one uses. But my conclusion, after all, is that for the sake of children, we have to build walking and cycling paths. In the 2011 alternative budget of the Progress Party, we have added 100 billion. kr for upgrading the transport network in the major cities. This also includes means of walking and cycling. The Christian People's Party requires that there should be 1.5 m of clearance when passing by cyclists, but this will lead to that the vast majority of roads in Norway are not satisfactory, which is already not initially satisfactory. Yes, even when we only take the drivers into account. With the road debts we have on our roads today in Norway, approx. 10 to 30 cm on most county roads, it becomes totally impossible to satisfy these requirements to enter the traffic rules that there must be 1,5 m of clearance when passing by cyclists. If the requirement is there before the roads are repaired, there are dangerous traffic situations, because you have to go far beyond the opposite lane every time you have to drive past a cyclist, which you already do today. That's what makes it really nice to run past a cyclist. As the road situation is today, we support the Council of State's conclusion to wait for work to be started to introduce the 1.5-meter rule. It is basically amazing that the roads are not better organized for cyclists in our country, especially when we look back at the fact that in 50 of the last 66 years, there have been socialist governments – without any particular improvement in the road network for cyclists. I hear that someone dislikes being called socialists, but as I see it, they are. Google reads: Sosialists are usually members of a socialist party. Socialist ideology has been, to a large extent, the movement of labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4261	The proposal of the Christian People's Party's representatives on safer and better accessible cyclists is an important issue both for the environment, accessibility and public health, and a fine follow-up to the work we did on the current transport plan, where we established a national bike strategy to raise the bicycle share in Norway and improve safety. The central objectives of the strategy are to develop continuous cycling networks in cities and agglomerations and to increase the share of bicycles from today's 4pst. to 8 pst. over a ten-year period. It has been assumed that about 500 km of new walking and cycling facilities will be built during the period. In the nomination of the Transport Committee to the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, the majority, i.e. The Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, adopted some of the same things as are in the proposal of the Christian People's Party, among others. an offensive national effort is needed for better and more cycle routes where continuous cycling networks are established in cities and agglomerations where cycling is provided with a separate network separated from cars and pedestrians that there are a number of ambiguities and perceptions of existing legislation that need to be cleared up in, for example, cycling on the road, cross-roads, traffic congestion, etc. intensification of state information and wide-ranging awareness campaigns are necessary to ensure that, in the planning and development of new infrastructure and other changes to the transport network, consideration is given to cyclists, that cycling has been taken as a criterion for receiving subsidies from the public transport reward scheme in the major cities; As we see from the response of the Council of State to the proposal, we are in the process of following up on the national cycle strategy two years into the planning period. I'm glad. Nevertheless, we still have challenges, not least with regard to awareness-raising and regulatory clarification and training that apply to cycling and interaction with other road users. Mopedists allowed to drive for a maximum of 40 to 45 km/h must undergo both theoretical and practical training before being allowed to move out of traffic. It's not for cyclists like bicycles at the same speed. Training in traffic rules is essential before moving into traffic. Here I believe the schools have a role to play in teaching kids this, and the driving schools have to take more responsibility for training car and motorcycle drivers in terms of interacting with cyclists and other road users. The development of a continuous urban cycle road network is absolutely necessary to increase the proportion of bicycles, and I believe that, in the long term, when separate bicycle and pedestrian routes are developed, it should be prohibited to cycle on pavements and in pedestrian streets. In addition, we should distinguish between and facilitate transport cycling and cycling. Today, you have to cycle many places on the pavement, on the road or on bicycle paths that are built to cross the pavement and roads with high pavements. It makes transport cycling impossible. This is a challenge that needs to be addressed in the plans, because it is essential to build more bicycle paths that municipalities provide clear plans for bicycle paths so that we can give priority when the money is there. Several cities systematically work on this and have increased their bicycle share in recent years. That's good. But the potential is much greater. Therefore, it is good that we have the same ambitions as the proposers in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4290	The representative Tenden has obviously felt sorry that I am also following up on what is happening in Akershus. I am sorry to have to bind the national assembly with a party's priorities, but when the representative Tenden accuses me of compromising the truth, I cannot avoid taking the floor again. She blames me for spending money twice. I haven't spent the money twice. I have not said anything about the distribution of this money. And she's right in that position in Akershus chose to put the money in a buffer. That didn't want the opposition to do. That's what I said. Then the position in Akershus has opened for foreclosure, that the municipalities should foreclose the way for the county – i.e. that the municipalities can pay for themselves in the queue. There has been little interest in the municipalities. The County Municipality, and the opposition there – Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People’s Party – therefore shift responsibility to the municipalities. What the red-greens in Akershus have suggested in addition is a loan withdrawal of 100 million. kr to get away from the queue that is on foot and bicycle routes in Akershus, to provide safe school roads – as for Oscar in Sørum, who today has to take a taxi a few hundred meters because he has a dangerous school road. Two million. And Oscar had a safe school route. That was against the Left. For the position in Akershus, there are the major investment projects on the way that have focus, and I record that the walking and cycling path is not being prioritised there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4302	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I would like to refer to the representative Susanne Bratli's post, which shows how important it is for us to have a simplification of the traffic code for the precisely search lists. You see the search scope is a very odd group. It's the ten-year-old who rides bicycles, it's the thirty-year-old who rides bicycles, and it's the 75-year-old who has a little better time. That's why it's important that we look at the whole thing. I'm also open to considering what's going on in any kind of helmet, but I also think it's important, before that legislation might come into place, that we have a hearing on that proposal, and that the groups that are natural to ask are allowed to give their views on it. Then the representative takes the Vosskensen up why there are so many people who don't use walking and cycling roads when they're there. And it's an interesting issue that I thought it was important that the State Road Service look at. Because it's actually like we've built a lot of walking and cycling roads that don't feel like they're good for the pathologies. It takes too much time, they're not fit to use. The road director took this up on the last committee trip, where he said we have to look at this. What are good walking and cycling paths in the future? The council said it itself: it's a matter of coherence, which means that you get from A to B quickly. It's also important for the lists. So there's multiples that have plotted this by 1.5 meters. I would like to say that this is the norm that the State Road Administration uses today. And so this applies in the context of pass-by, i.e. if the road does not allow it, if the vehicle combination is running past and there is only 20 cm between the bicycle and the vehicle train, then the vehicle train should not pass. That's what's going on. There is security that is the basis for this. So I would also say that it's going to be very positive. It has been referred to the cities, to Trondheim and Kristiansand. We see that there are large road packages at the same time there is a lot of work on bicycles. The part that Trondheim comes with is significant, and it will give a lift. So I'll make suggestion No. 3 from the Christian People's Party to a transmission proposal. What goes on in information work and holding campaigns, I experience being followed up. Both proposals No. 4 and 5 are suggestions that are on their own. That is why I shall leave them, but I shall make a proposal no. 3 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4319	Proposal No. 3 will be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4322	As an Aust-Agder representative, I feel almost obliged to speak in this debate. Of course, we are very proud of the traditions we have. We are particularly proud of our world champion, as there is reason to congratulate today. He won the fourth stage of Switzerland around. Of course, we are also proud of Grimstad, who has come very far, and which is one of the cycling cities in the front – but not among the largest cities. But I am very pleased with the focus – now I see that the representative Tende Febrile is trying to tell me that they have the Left rapporteur, but he has not done this all by himself. At least I'm very proud of Grimstad. There's another Grimstad Cyclist that's reasonably known. His name is Dag Otto Lauritzen. He has pointed out that Norwegian drivers are among the worst in the world when it comes to considering cyclists. It's worth paying attention to. If some people have experience after riding in a lot of countries, these are the top cyclists. I fully agree with the representative Bratli, who is calling for progress in what is going on on a bicycle helmet. I really don't see any logic in that it shouldn't be mandatory, because many cyclists bike just as fast as a moped runs. But on moped you must have a helmet, not on a bike. What also made me take the floor is psychology in what the Progress Party says. It's very, very interesting, because even in this debate the Progress Party manages to create a contrast, they can create the impression that there's a sin on the drivers, even in relation to the cyclists. They're able to defend the irritated driver. Yes, in general they play on the annoyed driver. It is also reflected in the policy: higher speed, no to dots, no to average measurements. In the past, there was also no call-out police, and some progress party representatives want alcohol at the gas station. In this way it becomes more dangerous for both the hard and the soft road users. So let's hope that such a policy will at least not come true. So to the representative of Vosskensen in terms of walking and cycling paths. Now I am a relatively newly-baked father, and walking on a narrow bicycle path with a baby carriage when there is a cyclist suspending for 40–50–60 km/h shows that many times and bike paths are not suitable for that type of transport. So it's perfectly understandable that people who are going to ride fast are applying in the way. That's why we have to have our own bike paths. Otherwise this won't be traffic-proof enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4335	I just want to thank you for a good debate and constructive cooperation. Thank you for boasting – I like to boast back, for one has had a constructive tone on this front to try to reach agreement. That the Christian People's Party is now turning one of its proposals into a transmission proposal is also an expression of it. Then I have to comment on Halleraker when it is true that he suggested that the government vote for the proposals they are actually in favour of. Some of the problem is known, among other things. that the reward scheme is in line with the 2012 budget. And the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which have been in a government that has not invested so much in bicycles, knows that proposing it today, and getting it into the budget for 2012, is too late. Therefore, the government parties cannot support the good intentions of Halleraker. I also want to comment on Halleraker's incubation claim in connection with the tourist industry. That is so far correct, but one of the explanations is that the Right came up with that remark late and that he was tied up to the Right's transport plan. That's why we didn't go into him. If Halleraker had come and talked to me and showed me what it really was, I think it would have been all right. But I don't notice any lobbyism from the Right when it comes to that issue. I hope that the debate we have today will provide a basis for a stronger commitment to cycling, which is important for health, the environment and the climate – all we have had in the debate. Then I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for making a good proposal, a proposal that is well received.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4346	You can't do anything after hearing the representative de Ruiter. He tries in many ways to present it as if the Progress Party is only concerned with the drivers. I actually don't think he heard after my post, and I don't think he's read what we've written in our notes either. He's trying to bring it down to a kind of level like we're for you, and we're too daughter – alcohol at gas stations. It could have been nice, and we could have taken that debate, but I believe it does not belong in this Chamber and in this debate. But I would like to say that when it comes to an alcohol debate, I would like to have a debate with the representative Freddy de Ruiter. That he is for regulation and everything possible, gets to be his thing, but this is much more than that. I really think this has been a very good debate. And the start of the Ruiters posts was actually pretty good. But then it totally took off. I have a very great sense of part of what the representative Hareide has addressed in this debate. I also think the Council of State has been good at some of the challenges that have arisen, and the Progress Party agrees with that. But then maybe we disagree a little bit -- we're not sure if you're just creating a new system, you can solve this. There's a need for money. We're always accused that we have too much money, we spend too much money. We know how hard it is to get a few hundred million extra dollars. But if you want to do all that I hear representatives from the government parties say that they are very busy, it costs money – it costs a lot of money. I think it is important to find out that yes, there are bad drivers, but there are bad cyclists too. That was my whole point, and that was the point when I took this up, and not that I was going to hang out the cyclists by saying that it was just the cyclists who were the ugly ones, and that I was going to defend the drivers. You don't have to drive a lot around this town until you see drivers who behave idiotically in traffic, and see cyclists who are definitely acting idiotically in traffic. That's what this is all about, and that's why I agree with a lot of what the Council of State has come up with. I think the Council of State had a very thorough response to the committee's questions that came from the committee, and so far to the proposal for a representative. I'm very happy about that, and I definitely think there are some things you should discuss more. I just want to show that in Telemark you have, among other things. a project where you are also active in school in order to get young people to ride more, where they also actively learn traffic rules in a good way. It's a very important and very good project, and we might have had several of those kinds of projects, so that more young people would start cycling, and so that they could also operate traffic rules and behave the way you should in traffic, whether you're a driver or you're a cyclist.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4359	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 17 and 18 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 4800]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4388	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4397	Norway’s membership in NATO and Norwegian NATO policies is widely welcomed, as confirmed by these settings. Through this, we ensure Norway’s security and at the same time contribute to stability and cooperation in our part of the world. However, a prerequisite for good military cooperation is that we also succeed on a political level. With developments in which the EU countries in the alliance go a long way in coordinating defence and security policy through EU bodies, it is particularly important to ensure the political part of NATO cooperation. We are not served by developments in which NATO remains the main military actor, while the main political discussions on European and global security take place in the EU. As is well known, Norway’s main input to the NATO debate on a new strategic concept was the so-called neighbourhood initiative. I fully share the government's assessment of the importance of clarifying the balance between NATO's core tasks and operations outside NATO's geographical impact field. NATO needs to focus more on the core tasks of the alliance and the challenges of NATO's geographical periphery. Operations far away must not go beyond the collective defence of the territories of NATO countries. We also wholeheartedly support the work to raise issues of disarmament on the agenda. There is every reason to welcome NATO's commitment to work for a world without nuclear weapons in its new concept for the first time. As regards the third priority area of government, it is easy to endorse the importance of close and constructive cooperation with Russia. A lasting basis for peace and stability in our part of the world must include Russia. NATO cooperation is based on consensus. This has led to the establishment of so-called coalitions of willingness in some cases where countries have not agreed to engage in military action. There are situations where this will be necessary, but we should be aware that such coalitions could weaken the political alliance itself, which is glued to cooperation, whether it is outside the formal framework and decision-making bodies of NATO cooperation. The communication on cooperation in NATO in 2010 shows great activity on many fronts and with the ISAF operations in Afghanistan as the main operational challenge. The decision to initiate the transfer of responsibility for security to the Afghan authorities in 2011 marks the start of a new phase of the alliance’s efforts in the country. At the request of the United Nations, NATO is contributing positively to the fight against piracy outside the Horn of Africa through the Ocean Shield operation. NATO’s involvement in Kosovo shall be progressively reduced as local authorities become able to ensure the security of the area. Work to implement UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security in NATO continues. It is gratifying that the government has developed its own action plan to address the needs and rights of women in conflict areas. It is an important area that must not be forgotten in the name of the fight. Technological developments make our modern societies vulnerable to attacks on technical installations. Therefore, protection against cyberattack or so-called cyberdefence becomes an increasingly important field of action. Knowledge and ability to address threats both to military installations and basic civil devices will be essential. The NATO summit in Lisbon therefore devotes considerable attention to this issue. Up-to-date data protection policy is being addressed during 2011. NATO's partnership policy is an important part of the alliance's activities. It is based on two pillars: a practical part in which NATO offers various forms of assistance and training for defence reform, increased security for civil society and cooperation with NATO forces, and a more political part dealing with political dialogue and support for reform processes. In the year that passed, this activity included, inter alia: Russia, Balkan countries, Mediterranean countries, Ukraine and Georgia. Work on reforming the NATO organisation is continuing. An important objective is to establish a new command structure with fewer headquarters and sub-organisations and a reduction in the number of posts, from 13 000 to 9 000. An effective committee structure and good internal working processes are a necessary part of this conversion. Like the rest of the world, NATO member states have also been hit hard by the financial crisis, leading to pressure on national defence budgets and requiring closer cooperation between allies in the development and purchase of military capabilities. Let me then, for the sake of the many people who had to read the minutes from the debate and miss a few words about the operation in Libya, just stress that the reason it is not mentioned in the Innst. 413 S or in my post, this setting concerns the 2010 report, i.e. before the Libya operation was started.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4431	There are two important issues that are being debated. Not least the relationship with NATO is crucial for Norway as a nation. Two days ago I came back after a visit to Afghanistan. I had the pleasure of meeting many representatives of NATO countries, who are down there as part of the ISAF force, and other countries that are there through the PfP agreement. What is continuous and very positive is the desire to make a improvement and to take a risk in probably the world's most uncertain nation today. I think that's a good thing to do when we discuss these things, that NATO countries are willing to take the loads and not least the cost of doing such tough jobs and bet the way you actually do. So I think you just have to admit that this didn't work, the United States wouldn't have taken a lead. Other countries may feel that they are doing what is expected. But at my discretion, it's raised above any doubt that NATO and NATO resources wouldn't have been close to the same thing if the United States hadn't gone ahead and taken the biggest loads. We're happy with what we're doing. We're betting on a lot of things and we have a defense that's in progress. We have an open and well-functioning security debate at home. I think that's good. At the same time, I note that Minister of Defence Gates is not as impressed with the rest of the NATO countries. I think we should take that with us as a serious warning in the future. I will not be surprised if several countries, including NATO, are going to make new agreements – bilateral or multilateral, as we see France and England have done on the hangar ship side – simply what the case rapporteur was about, because the economy is so tough that it becomes difficult for small and medium-sized nations to give priority to defence over other things. Politics is about choosing. It's about priorities. I think some people will have to admit that you can't afford everything, and you have to find new forms of cooperation. The challenge then will be to make sure that you do the smart things, and to find good partners, that you can trust, and that you have a common culture, a common definition of what you want to achieve. If this isn't going to be difficult for them. In this way, Norway is in a special position, which has an economy that enables us to do what we want to do and political ambitions about. So I could imagine saying something about the second case, which is about NATO Parliamentary Assembly. It's an organ where the Storting has a delegation that's very good, and it's doing a good job. But it would have been tempting to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to what extent the NATO Parliamentary Assembly plays a role. Is it the same as what the Western Union does? Are opinions, stored at the appropriate place, similar to those of others producing reports, forgotten? If that's the case, I think it's disappointing. I hope, of course, that this is not the way it is, because the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is a place where people who want to take responsibility for their respective nations and for solidarity within NATO actually need respect for the job they do, and because they take things that are different in character, from civil things like water and food security to fight IEDs, road bombs, by producing reports that go to the respective nations and to NATO Secretary-General. I think you should take care of that kind of ambition. Meeting politicians, discussing common themes and common problem areas, is only positive at my discretion. That is why I hope that once they have made their decisions, they have produced their reports in the Parliamentary Assembly, that they go to the respective departments and that, if there is no other respect, they are looked through and they see whether there are things that can be applied in operational and daily policy. If we don't have participants in a body that meets to meet, and it's really a bad way to manage taxpayers' money, and not least the time for those who are there doing their job down there. All in all, my conclusion is that NATO is a cornerstone of our foreign and security policy. The organisation plays on many facets – from the purest military operation, the sharpest piece of what NATO does, to the civil piece. Here is a wide range of measures and a wide variety of measures – not least the commitment that nations contribute to, and perhaps most importantly: the efforts of each individual who is out doing a job, which they actually set up and take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4446	The rapporteur has given a thorough account of the Committee's position. Of course, we agree with the wording that the rapporteur has made today. There is little doubt that NATO today appears to be our most sovereign foreign policy arena. There we are, in fact, at parliamentarian level 'hands on' and are involved in political decision-making. I think that the development of NATO's new strategic concept in November 2010 has illustrated in many ways. There is no doubt that Norway has set its feet on both the government level and the parliamentary level. This institution of which many have predicted the liquidation now appears to be more potent than ever, and will appear to be the traffic police in the world capable of settling where the germ of unrest and conflict could arise. There is little doubt that NATO is in many ways an international political paradox. The paradox has its reason that NATO is the only military alliance in history that has managed to survive its old enemies. In fact, researchers and other political analysts have to a large extent not fully understood why the alliance has survived, and that it is still perceived as useful and relevant. It is a security policy instrument 20 years after the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact. So the fact that NATO survived the Cold War makes NATO a unique phenomenon in international politics. So both the case rapporteur and the representative of Ellingen have been at the heart of NATO's challenge, the debates, this political arena that we are given the opportunity to participate in with the partner country, the Middle East, and not least that Norway has prioritised NATO's involvement in Russia's issue. This, I think, is very important, and my experience -- I think it's most of the experience -- is that the NATO Alliance and Russia have drawn close. There is no doubt that there are common denominators that bind NATO and Russia, and it can in the long run create an even greater and better ground for stable and peaceful development. Keywords like Iran, punctuation like terror, etc. has gradually become keywords that create a common denominator. It is also important to draw attention to the Lisbon Summit, which was the most important of many years. The summit was a success for the alliance, but not least for Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen personally, both because he led the alliance to agreement on the strategic concept, and also because he personally played a central role in the development of the agreement between Russia and NATO on the missile defence system. Thus, after the summit, the Secretary-General appears to be a political leader to much greater extent supported by the alliance member countries than before. Then the representative Ellingsen was inside the US's retiring Secretary of Defense, who has expressed his concern about burden-sharing, for Europe, how to deal with defence and security policy. I think there is every reason to note the concern of the US Secretary of Defense, and we have seen this trend in development even after the period covered by this report, namely the year 2010. The introduction to 2011 was a clear expression to deal with the Middle East conflict, NATO sets up under the auspices of UN Decisions, etc. But Europe's security, our own security and our own policies cannot evolve in a situation where we see that the United States' share of NATO's total expenditure rises dangerously high; it has increased by about a quarter. 25 pst. during the last 10 years. The US share of NATO's operating costs starts gradually to balance at a point between 75 and 80 pst, and this should not develop. At the same time, it will be the challenge of the alliance to ensure that we continue to be involved, is ‘hands on’, and that the alliance as such can contribute to the new major powers, for example. India and China, also now contribute to taking their share of responsibility for peace and development in the world. It no longer holds to say that now other countries have to stand still to clean up Syria. It's been done in Libya, and it's not always that you can afford in the United States to assume any future commitment to peace and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4463	Now this isn't a controversial announcement, but it's good to read that there's an overall committee that's behind it. And that brings me right to a comment on the NATO Parliamentary Assembly: the parliamentary element is very important in NATO, I have experienced it over the last few years. Next week I will be attending the Parliamentary Assembly in Tromsø, and it is an expression that in NATO democracies parliamentarians play a very important role in relation to anchoring and inspiring the decisions we make in the critical areas regulated by NATO. So to the representative of Ellingen, I just want to confirm it: it's an important forum. It is important for us to get Norwegian priorities as well, because it is winning back in the countries affected. I want to say here that last year's NATO Summit was an important milestone in the development of the alliance. I would therefore like to comment on a matter that has not been so much discussed, which concerns the changes and modernisations in NATO's command structure that were decided upon, where the number of officers would be reduced from 13 000 to 8 800. The task of determining where the cuts were to be taken was left to the defence ministers. Such decisions are never simple. First of all, the cuts come in the operating command. The headquarters of Lisbon, Madrid, Heidelberg, Naples and Izmir are located. New and smaller headquarters are established in some of these locations, but overall the goal has been achieved from the summit. It became early clear in this period that no significant changes would be made to the transformation command, in which the Joint Warfare Centre on Jåttå is subject. This has been adopted on Jåttå in the new command structure, and it is an important victory for Norway and also a good compliment to the quality of that command. I want to mention this. So a comment on NATO's position here we are now standing, mid-2011, and it's important things that have come about after this message was written, namely the operation in Libya. I believe that last week, Minister of Defence Gates’ speeches were a liberating reflection – again – on the fact that there are democracies we are talking about. That an outgoing defence minister spends time talking straight out and giving clear messages, we're going to take that with us. We can also take with us that he here acknowledged the efforts that Norway has made in the Libyan operation, without paying too much attention to this. But in order to put his posts in perspective, it's important that the Americans also hear back that the NATO allies are participating too fully and are taking a significant cost and burden in the operation in Afghanistan, which is a challenge for all NATO countries, but which is an operation where the United States has led and on which the Allies have ended. So the burden-sharing principle has to be seen in a slightly larger perspective than the exact percentages, as Gates put it. With regard to Norway's role, I feel that the northern regions are now better understood in NATO. It is not an area of increased tension and need for a ‘turbulence planning’ in the defence alliance, but it is a region that is changing politically, and how the proximity of Russia and cooperation with Russia in the Arctic and in the Barents region is an important dimension – historical – to this contrast that was between NATO and Russia. It is still the case that the border we are now completing with Russia was formerly the East-West border, the NATO-Warszawapakt border. This is now a limit where we can show a lot of new cooperation, and I think that is an important Norwegian contribution to the overall understanding that is in NATO. Last week we were able to mark the 20th anniversary of the independence of the Baltic States, and they bring to the square a completely different experience in that neighbouring relationship than we do. What's special about NATO is that we combine our experience with what becomes a common denominator. I think that's also going to be an important part in the future. Finally, I would like to say that it is through our NATO allies that we are participants in a very demanding military operation in Afghanistan, which is now in its transition to Afghan security responsibilities. And we're engaged in Libya through a NATO command. That underlines the seriousness of the relationship with NATO. NATO is not a historical compliance, but an organisation that is most capable of being relevant and of responding to needs and challenges here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4478	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4481	I would just like to add a few words to the statements made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, including: NATO in 2010. I think it is a very important message we are discussing today. I have had the pleasure of sitting in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in the Committee on Economic and Energy Security, and I can confirm that there are very interesting conversations going on there – these are important things. What has been on the agenda for several meetings now is the economic situation of the 28 alliance partners in the 28 NATO countries, and there is a wide variation. Many countries have to tackle the defence budget and cut drastic cuts, up to 30 pst. and 40 pst. in some countries. It goes without saying, when you have to do it year after year, that the defence capacity of each country is quite reduced. Then you start discussing new ways of doing things, and there I think the alliance is most up-to-date. Not least Fogh Rasmussen, the Secretary-General, was very offensive in that area in the last collection in Varna. He called for much stronger multinational cooperation in the various fields. Work is now under way on investment and development of military capabilities in cooperation to build skills on training, training, necessary reforms, reorganisation, joint procurement, etc. This is very important in the economic situation of many of these countries. Here, we need a long-term effort to get the strategic capabilities we need into the new military strategy we have in the future. But we must not leave the collective core tasks and necessary resources in this context. It's very important. The basic strategic capacities must remain there. It is the foundation of the collective military capability of the alliance. So finally about reorganization, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in. I think it's done a good job, not without internal disputes, of course, now that you've reduced the headquarters from 15 to 7. It is quite drastic among 28 Member States. Fortunately, the training and transformation command in Stavanger was maintained as one of the important headquarters in that area. It should be noted that this is where the training of the various headquarters staffs is now taking place, the staffs both in Afghanistan and Libya – this is where you will now teach those who will do the good international job for NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4492	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 17 and 18. [[Fotation, see page 4800]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4500	We're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4508	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6-8, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 is included in the setting on page 47. Proposals Nos. 6-8 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Six to eight from the left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan to reduce the number of municipalities in Norway, in order to enable municipalities to meet the increased tasks resulting from the interaction reform.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked at regular intervals to provide a big message clarifying the government’s policy on migration processes in health businesses.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reduce the financial risk of municipalities by setting the maximum payment per municipality. investment of SEK 7,000.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4549	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to facilitate free dental treatment for all elderly people with disabilities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4564	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to immediately start work on the development of an operational national health, care and hospital plan that can be promoted by the Stortinget in 2013 and replace the national health and care plan [[2011-2015]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a national rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan based on the model of the mental health escalation plan. The plan is presented to the Stortinget during 2012. The plan shall include proposals for the development of the offer both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service, as well as a description of measures for the better organisation of the offer.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is also asking for a separate escalating plan for the drug field to be set up by the government in connection with the submission of its own drug policy notification. The plan shall facilitate a systematic build-up of capacity and competences in prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and after-care, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a report on quality and patient safety to be prepared by the Government and to propose a health service accident commission based on the model of the Transport Disaster Commission.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4612	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-16, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party, proposals No. 17-21, from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party The President first takes note of the proposals. 10–16, from the Party of Advancement, the Right and Christian People's Party and the proposals No. 20 and 21, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that an agreement between health companies and municipalities on the offer to drug addicts ensures that an after-care offer has been developed from the first day.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on a regulation that clarifies the content of municipal mental health work. It is assumed that, inter alia, psychological services are prescribed as a necessary part of multi-disciplinary health and care services and that a plan is drawn up to make this competence available in all the municipalities of the country.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of staffing standards for the medical coverage of hospitals from 2012.’» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own case in which the Competitiveness Pact 2015 is amended and strengthened in order to address the challenges posed by the interaction reform.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate different pilot schemes between cooperating municipalities and healthcare companies in order to test different cooperation schemes, task transfer, responsibilities and funding. It is assumed that provision is made to facilitate follow-up research on the pilot schemes.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the establishment of a scheme of senior agents.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to regulate that the Health Authority in the county forwards notification to the National Health Care Knowledge Centre of the conditions that have caused or could have led to injury to patients.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to extend the requirement for police attestations to include persons working with older people in the care sector, on the basis of a model from the requirement for a certificate of good conduct for persons working in professions providing services to children and mentally retarded persons.’;» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Swedish Government to regulate, through the regulation of Section 16 of the Health Care Act, that health professionals can report directly to the National Health Care Knowledge Centre.’ These proposals will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to be included on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 6-8 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Here the President draws attention to the fact that a proposal by an incubator has not been included in the summary of minority proposals. This concerns proposals from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party included on page 31 of the first column of the vote. There is a vote in favour of this along with the referenced proposals. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In the Municipal Health and Welfare Services Act as proposed in Prop. [[Health and Welfare Act]] 91 L § 3-8a shall be replaced by: § 3-8 a Related training etc. [[2010-2011]] The municipality shall provide advice, guidance and training to relatives of persons receiving home healthcare in accordance with Section 3-2, first paragraph, paragraph 1. 6(a) or personal assistance according to Section 3-2, first paragraph, No. 6(b), when requested by the relatives.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In the Municipal Health and Welfare Services Act as proposed in Prop. [[Health and Welfare Act]] 91 L, the second paragraph of Section 7-2 is replaced by the following: If the coordinator has been appointed after the first subparagraph, the municipality may request the appointment of another coordinator if the scheme does not function properly. [[2010-2011]] If practicable, the municipality is obliged to appoint a new coordinator. The second paragraph of the bill of proposal shall become the third paragraph.’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 61 on the specialist health service, etc. the third paragraph of Section 2-5a shall be replaced by the following: the coordinator appointed after the first subparagraph may request the appointment of another coordinator if the system fails to function properly. The third paragraph of the bill of proposal shall become the fourth paragraph.’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In Law No 2 June 1999 63 on patients' rights shall be replaced by the following: § 2-9 Right to choose a sick home place in municipalities other than the resident municipality Patient, who has been given a health home place decision, has the right to choose the municipality where the sick home place is to be offered. The Ministry can provide detailed rules on the content and implementation of the electoral right according to the provision here.» If the proposals of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party on new § 2-9 fall, the section becomes new § 2-9. The proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party, which has been included on page 31 of the vote, reads: 'In Law 2 July 1999 No. 63 on patient rights shall new § 2-1 d shall be replaced by: § 2-1 d Right to receive healthcare services organised as user-led personal assistanceThe person in need of personal assistance under Section 3-2, first paragraph, No. 6(b), in the form of practical assistance and training, is entitled to have the service organised as user-led personal assistance in accordance with § 3-8 of the same Act.» [[patient rights law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e4736	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-19, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘Law on municipal health and care services, etc. Section 3-2, first paragraph, point 7 is replaced by the following: 7. [[Health and Welfare Act]] Offer of the elderly centre’» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘In the Act on Municipal Health and Welfare Services, etc., point 8 of the first paragraph of Section 3-2 is replaced by the following: 8. [[Health and Welfare Act]] The provision of day-to-day activities for the Demente Point will be point 7 if proposals for the provision of elderly centres falling under point 7 fall.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘In Law No 2 June 1999 63 on patients' rights shall be replaced by the following: § 2-9 Right to a daily activity offer for demente Demente is entitled to a daily activity offer from the municipality.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8720	Alternatively, between the position of the committee on the heading of the law and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Municipal Health and Welfare Services Act as proposed in Prop. [[Health and Welfare Act]] 91 L is replaced by the following: [[2010-2011]] Law on Municipal Health, Welfare and Social Services, etc. [[Health, Welfare and Social Services Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8740	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up Section 3-2, first paragraph, No. 4 and proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Municipal Health and Welfare Services Act as proposed in Prop. [[Health and Welfare Act]] 91 L, § 3-2, first paragraph, No. 4 is replaced by the following: Exploration, diagnosis and treatment, including fixed medical systems, psychological services, nursing, physiotherapy and midwifery services’;» [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8757	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up Section 3-10, the heading of the paragraph and the third paragraph, and the proposals No. 4 and 5 from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In the Municipal Health and Welfare Services Act as proposed in Prop. [[Health and Welfare Act]] 91 L the title of Sections 3 to 10 shall be replaced by the following: § 3 to 10 Influence of patients and users and cooperation with voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households and private suppliers» [[2010-2011]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In the Municipal Health and Welfare Services Act as proposed in Prop. [[Health and Welfare Act]] 91 L, the third paragraph of Section 3-10, shall be replaced by the following: health and care services shall cooperate with the organisations of users and with voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households and private providers engaged in the same tasks as healthcare.’ [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8785	It is then voted on the Committee's position on § 11-3. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8799	Alternatively, between the Committee's suspension of the patient rights law § 7-6, first paragraph, and proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 June 1999 63 on patients’ rights, the first paragraph of Section 7-6 shall be replaced by the following: the rules of the Administrative Act on the handling of complaints about individual decisions apply as far as they are applicable. When testing municipal decisions on health and care services under the Health and Care Services Act, the County State shall pay attention to the consideration of municipal self-government when testing the free judgement, cf. the third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 34 of the Administrative Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8817	All the rest of A is being voted on, and this is about the whole vote proposal for a decision, except for what we have already voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8827	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8837	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8847	In line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the draft resolution, paragraph B, will be presented on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e8855	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward, namely proposals Nos. 1-3 from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the possibilities for rehabilitating abroad and the funding that can be used.’ This proposal, in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, will be put on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9394	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on the law on public health [[Public Health Act]] ‘The third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 4 of the Act on Public Health shall be replaced by the following: the municipality shall facilitate cooperation with the voluntary sector and other actors, including private and non-profit actors.’; [[Public Health Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9412	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to Section 31, first paragraph, and proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 31 of the Act on Public Health shall be replaced by the following: The County may supervise the legality of the performance of the obligations imposed on it by, or in accordance with, this Act, Sections 4 to 9, 20, 21 and 27 to 30.’ [[Public Health Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9429	All the other parts of the proposal for a decision are added together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9439	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9449	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9472	During the debate, Mr Olsen put forward two proposals, namely proposals Nos. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start work on introducing a ‘package course’ in cancer care and parts of ischaemic heart disease according to the Danish model.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that forecasts of the expected waiting time for the treatment of the various cancers are prepared, so that cancer patients can choose hospitals also from the expected waiting time, in line with other patients.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9645	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9655	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9679	During the debate, Mr Olsen put forward two proposals, namely proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a heart bridge to Denmark as soon as possible, to the extent necessary to ensure that the waiting time guarantee for ablation spaces is respected.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for more intensive efforts to build up sufficient capacity related to the ablation spaces at the Celebrating Clinic and to exploit this capacity.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e9713	A total of 37 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 3-6, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 7-9, by Arve Kambe, on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 10-13, by Arve Kambe, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 14-21, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 22–37, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left The President takes first of all proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, the proposals No. 12 and 13 by the Right and proposals Nos. 20 and 21, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government asks the government to carry out a consultation on the amendment of the tax law § 16-22 on the deduction of foreign taxes. The law is being re-encouraged in the 2012 government budget if the government chooses to stick to the law change after the consultation.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, proposing how to introduce a notification system whereby the applicant is notified of who is applying for his name in the tax lists through the use of MinID.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks it to limit public access to the tax lists through the Tax Directorate’s websites to the current three weeks’.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the press is able to identify the sex of taxpayers and the date of birth in the tax registers.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to enable freelance journalists to have the same access to the tax lists as permanent journalists.’ These proposals will, in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, be presented as separate cases in a later meeting in Stortinget. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 22–37, from the left. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e10124	The proposals are then put to the vote. 14-19, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e10253	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10 and 11, from the right. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 16-10 is replaced by the following: Tax deductions for housing savings are provided at 28 per cent of the savings. Paragraphs 16-10, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: The amount of the savings paid may not exceed NOK 25 000 per year. year of income. For spouses who are similar to each other for their total wealth and income, the amount limit in this paragraph applies to each of them. Savings from children similar to those of their parents, cf. Paragraphs 2-14 apply only to tax deductions on income which are distinctly similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e10302	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 to 9, from the right and left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘I Law 19 June 1964 No. 14 on inheritance fees and certain gifts are repealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e10408	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-6, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e10531	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e10558	Now, when we're going to vote on the motion for a resolution of the vote, the party groups are set to refrain from following up their primary positions, so that we let go of a split and, to some extent, complicated voting. This is under the clear condition that it is not used against them on a later occasion. As the rapporteur, Thomas Breen, has explained, in paragraphs A and B, instead of ‘I Law...’, the words ‘Law...’ shall read ‘Law...’ after the words ‘The Title of the Law’ shall be replaced by ‘The Title of the Law’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11107	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11117	The legislative decision will be taken up to the second time during a subsequent meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11496	The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11509	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11523	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11531	In the course of the debate, Mr Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government in regulation to determine the distribution of profits between bingo purposes and the key to a fixed percentage, so that the proportion of the key transmitted does not exceed 15 pst.’ This proposal, in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, will be put on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11572	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11585	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party also wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11599	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11607	During the debate Line Henriette Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to resume negotiations with ESA on requirements for the organisation and management of petroleum activities on Norwegian base and the use of bases, etc. by rightholders.’ This proposal, in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, will be put on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11669	The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11682	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Christian People's Party has announced that they too want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11696	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11706	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The amount consents to: 1st@item: inlistbox The fossil package in the South and North Trøndelag is implemented as described in Prop. [[2010-2011]] 124 S Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11747	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Ingerd Schou on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to implement the continuous and completed development of the E18 Winterbro-Sweden/Riksgren funded by public private cooperation [[OPS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11780	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the extension of E18 on the route Melleby-Momarken, incl. lateral measures, are built as referred to in Prop. [[2010-2011]] 131 S
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11800	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 2, from Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a separate sample with the participation of the departments concerned to present a new strategy on the use of salt on Norwegian roads with a view to a significant reduction in the use of salt with effect from the winter season 2012/2013. The size assumes that: environmental damage to water and nature and damage to the infrastructure/accompaniment costs of salt use are emphasised, the effect of road salinisation on road safety is given a particularly thorough assessment. The size points in particular to the need to consider the introduction of specific winter road traffic measures to ensure road safety through the use of less road salt, as has been done in other countries that have reduced the use of salt on the road, taking into account the environment of competence outside the State Road Service and the Road Directorate and other departments concerned. Work should be completed in the spring of 2012 so that a new salt strategy can take effect in the winter of 2012/2013, according to which the Stortinget is appropriately informed about the salt strategy and the specific salt use objectives and for road safety in the winter.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11839	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a thorough review of the consequences of road salinisation, including the impact of road salt on road safety and the environment. The Government is asked to make proposals for actions based on up-to-date knowledge and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. ‘... The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11872	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3-5, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the government increase the state’s effort to promote information and awareness campaigns in order to improve interaction between road users’ groups.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to amend the traffic rules in order to improve the safety and accessibility of cyclists. Today's minimum requirements of 1,5 metres for the safe passing of cyclists are included in the traffic rules.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend the rules on compulsory retirement which apply where the route crosses the road and off the road so that cycling is given priority and better accessibility.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e11915	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a State reward scheme for the route and cycle.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the consideration of bicycle traffic is taken into account in the planning and development of new infrastructure.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-14.ana.ud1999e12040	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
