ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e35	The President of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, Mrs Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu, is on an official visit to Norway. He's here today at the mall. It is a great pleasure to wish him and his delegation welcome to the Parliament. We hope they have an interesting and pleasant stay here with us, and that the visit will contribute to even closer cooperation between the Storing and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. [[Applause from the Chamber]] The representatives of Aksel Hagen, Truls Wickholm, Øyvind Waksdal and Ingrid Heggø, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen from 21 October onwards and until further notice from representatives Laila Davøy, Steinar Gullvåg, Svein Roald Hansen, Irene Johansen and Harald T. Nesvik on leave from 25 October to 27 October and from representatives Nikolai Astrup and Gina Knutson Barstad from 26 and 27 October – all to participate in meetings of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Strasbourg On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Hordaland: Filip Rugg 25–27. ==References====External links== October For More and Romesdal County: Jon Georg Dale 26-27. October For Oslo: Afshan Rafiq 26-27. October For Sør-Trøndelag County: Knut Gravrök 24 October and until further notice For Vestfold County: Heidi Ørnlo 26-27. October For Eastfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås 26-27. ==References====External links== October
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e144	‘Everything is related to everything’, said a Norwegian Prime Minister, simply but nevertheless an important point. It's the same in the workplace where we have to have different jobs for society to work. The financial director needs the carpenter to build a house, the glass master to look out of it, the celebration in order that there is no fire in the pipe, the plumber to have a tight house and the plumber to have water in the shower. All those who have built houses know how many different professionals are inside, and the architect has designed the house, the engineer calculated and the electrician installed the electrical system. This is just a house, but the whole community is built on the same principle – everyone is dependent on each other. If you're going to be dependent on others, you'd like to be dependent on someone who knows what to do. We want the best houses, the best car mechanics and the best wells. We get that through an education that's both practical and theoretical. The practical is related to the theoretical. Both are equally important. Nevertheless, many consider practical subjects and practical work to be inferior. This is not the case, but we are struggling with over-repudiation from the professions. Nor do we, according to the trade unions, manage to train students with sufficient basic competence in their Vg1 and Vg2 subjects as they are today. Non-response statistics show that in 2005 the coal has 87 pst. of those who started on study-specialising lines, completed with full competence after five years, i.e. measured in 2010. The same statistics show that approx. 57 pst. in the professional field, complete with competence within five years. If you look at a statistic for a little longer, the numbers have been fairly even in the last 15 years. The statistics from the SSB also show that students with a high number of primary school credits complete higher education far more frequently than those with a low primary school score. Overall, it turns out that 98 pst. of the students with more than 55 primary school credits, completing upper secondary education within five years, of those with 55 primary school credits or less, it is only 8 pst. by students who complete within 5 years. It's also known that girls complete to a greater degree than boys. It confirms that the steps taken by the government to strengthen basic competence and provide for early action are absolutely correct and absolutely necessary. Falling motivation towards the end of primary school, combined with more boys than girls falling out of school, also confirms that it has been high time to look at the contents of high school. It should therefore be interesting to look forward to the development when we gradually get the first coals of students who have gone after the reform The knowledge promise with changes, and then hopefully changes in high school. When we also know that about half of those starting at e.g. construction, not completing with full competence within five years, we can not only blame students, but we have to look for system errors both in high school, in secondary school and in the structure of higher education, and we have to make changes. There's already been a move to strengthen high school, and there's more and more to be done. I hope and believe that the changes and clarifications made in order to get a more practical and motivating secondary school will also lead to more motivated students with a better basis for carrying out vocational studies. In any case, there has been one of the main reasons behind the Central Party's commitment to changing high school. Providing rooms and facilities in secondary schools to improve their basic knowledge of basic subjects, to provide opportunities to better understand the relationship between theory and practice and to gain recognition for practical and creative skills could provide a better starting point for those in a professional field. Then we believe that we also need to look at the structure of the upper secondary professions. The Land Association of Construction has been particularly concerned with construction and has carried out extensive work to think through what can help the construction industry to get even better apprentices into business. We also know that other sectors have brought about changes. This is therefore true of several industries that need good skilled workers. It's been seven months since the interpellation was raised, and I'm glad that things seem to happen. This interpellation provides for a review of the structure of vocational training and a split of some basic courses in particular. The basic courses recruit for a wide range of industries: construction techniques for more than 20 subjects, engineering and industrial production for more than 60, while health and social sciences recruit about 10 subjects. It goes without saying that in the first two examples, it might be a little bit in most ways to have an overview of and get a knowledge of before you have to select something more special about Vg2. At the same time, it is important to understand that Norway — with a marginal population and relatively large distances — needs to ensure that we have a wide enough number of students to choose the subject, so that we do not lose a basic course because of too little search and thus lose important offers. At the same time, we need to ensure that Vg1 and Vg2 provide the professional skills necessary for learning. So this one right over here is going to have to be equal to each other. The question is whether this is the right weighting, or whether the focus on a wide range of offers can lead to that we don't get good enough apprentices into learning. Do we do the smallest subjects right, or do we do them wrong? Is today's model good enough, or should we look at changes, and then how should we do it the best we can? I want to refer to St.meld. No 30 for 2003–2004. It says that the offer must: ‘ensure that, in the course of secondary education, pupils and apprentices receive sufficient specialisation in the profession they have chosen, while at the same time gaining sufficient competence. The needs of the labour market must also be met in such a way that sufficient workers are trained to meet the needs of labour in the various sectors, occupations and occupations.» There's a lot up to the schools how they interpret curricula and organize education. The depression subject is called the project of depression, and this is where you have to lay the foundation for motivation for what you are going to do at Vg2 and, if necessary, in learning. In the context of the evaluation of the Knowledge promise, there is an evaluation of the very deepening project from 2007 to 2011. So far, preliminary findings show that the schools involved in the study facilitate and implement projects for immersion differently. Most people choose – a little surprising, I have to say – to offer the students professional immersion at Vg1, but rather give it at Vg2, with periods of practice and the like in the company. It will be exciting to read the final results of FAFO when they are available. Through what has been examined up to now, one sees that it may be a good thing to bring about improvements in the existing offer. At the same time, I think it might be wise to consider whether it might be appropriate to split up some of the Vg1 lines in the broadest disciplines to get more room for each subject. Then I'm glad that the Minister of Knowledge this summer said that she opened a review of the individual educational programmes to see if they should be shared to give more professional specialisation in the past. I am also pleased that she at the same time provided the opportunity to work more in the community than today, for example. by enabling the English examination to be drawn up locally. I also noticed, via the Internet, that the Education Directorate is already looking at the possibility of carrying out an investigation related to a review of the education programmes. It would have been nice if the minister of knowledge could say a little more if such work has started, or maybe. when it is to be started and when it is assumed to end. Professional subjects are important for the future and important for a practical batch such as the Centre Party. We are concerned that the subjects provide the best possible skilled workers for the training given. That is why we are also concerned that county councils and schools need to be better equipped to offer more flexible runs. Today, the main model is two years in school and two years in business. Here one must be concerned about using the possibilities available to vary from one enterprise to another until the training is completed after four years. We also know that health and social sciences in particular are struggling with a great deal of disqualification. This is especially true for those who build on Vg3. Many choose this solution in order to secure the possibility of e.g.: continuing to train nurses. It's very unfortunate. Many do not pass the tough theory, and they do not receive a degree in study competence or obtain a diploma. We know that some county councils already offer students an opportunity to start building after having completed a course of study, i.e. after completing two years in school and two years in education. We hope that this can be an offer for everyone in the future. In any case, it's not going to be an offer that everyone wants to make use of, so the cost of the offer is likely to respond to those who have not now passed and who are therefore at risk of becoming a drop-out student, at the cost it has, both human and economic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e200	I am very pleased that the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien uses the opportunity to get attention around the professions through his own interpellation. She and I agree that we need to raise the status and performance of the professions, both because it is absolutely essential for Norwegian working life that we recruit more good skilled workers with good diplomas, and because we know that a lot of young people have more to go on here in order to succeed in a training course. Only 15-20 pst. of the youth schools complete vocational training so that they receive a letter of formal qualifications. It is clearly too little to meet the needs of the future working life. In fact, if Swedes and Poles find out that they are going to go home tomorrow, much of the Norwegian working life will collapse, because we do not have skilled workers to replace them. When we know that approx. Half of the youth schools apply for vocational training, which also means that we have a dramatic drop-out from the professions. Some students drop out completely, but a lot of people don't apply to apprenticeships, but go to college to get their study skills. Of these, there is once again an alarmingly large proportion that does not exist and therefore cannot be completed either by letter or further study competence. Thus, we have a two-part challenge in the professional field: working life needs more skilled workers, and young people need to complete a secondary education leading to work or to further education. On this basis, I have taken the initiative of the New GIV, which is a close cooperation with the states to bring up the implementation of higher education. We have set ourselves the goal of bringing up the completion of five years of secondary education from 70 p.m. to 75 pst. during a five-year period. It is a demanding but realistic goal. The causes of non-implementation are complex, but the main clear factor here is the basis on which students enter secondary school from primary school. Comparing pupils with the same grades from primary school, the degree of implementation is as high in the professions as in preparatory programmes. The most important thing we can do to improve implementation is to ensure that students are better rusted when they get out of high school. We have launched several measures to increase learning and motivation in high school. The most important are: New GIV with practice-based intensive learning in reading, writing and billing for students with low knowledge and a high level of knowledge at the tenth stage of the upper secondary school introduction of the autumn 2012 electoral profession more intensively focussed on reading, accounting and classroom management in general, not least in secondary school However, I am also concerned with ensuring quality and relevance in higher education — both for the purposes of student and apprentice implementation and also for education to be in line with the needs of society and the labour market. I have been particularly concerned that we need to improve training in the common subjects of vocational education and training programmes in order for education here to be perceived as relevant and motivating. We have received a regulation on the professional correction of the subjects, and we have granted 10 million in the autumn. kr for the development of training courses for vocational correction. Hospitation and follow-up training are other measures to ensure this. In the fall, we're going to finish the process of a new social contract, so that we can get more apprenticeships. Interpellant asks if I want to take the initiative on structural changes in education and training programmes. Now we are approaching the conclusion of the evaluation of the Knowledge Lift. I think it's a good time to record just such a discussion. I believe this may be relevant to changes, but I am concerned to make any changes in close cooperation with the social partners. There are many important balances to take care of, and some nuances may also be a little away in the input from individual industries. It is also not their responsibility to see the whole picture – that is what we in the department and the Stortinget are responsible for. I believe that today's structure in secondary education already opens up more specialisation on Vg1 than what can be perceived through industry input. Through the subject project for immersion, it is already organized for specialisation in Vg1. In the project of immersion, students may choose to deepen in Vg3-level subjects, such as: the plumbing profession, take a common course of study competence or take foreign languages and programme subjects from the preparatory training programme. Project for immersion constitutes a significant part of compulsory training in the vocational programme, more than 21 pst. Over two years — i.e. on average approx. one day per week. An important intention of a deeper project is that the subject should motivate students for learning through closer cooperation between school and working life early in the course of training. Project for immersion shall provide students with the possibility of professional specialisation already on Vg1 and Vg2 without determining future choices. Some students have decided to choose a profession and profession when they start at Vg1, and these students can test out their subject already then. Other students are more uncertain and want to try out different subjects before they finally decide. It is therefore important that the structure of Vg1 takes care of both the professional width of the students who do not know what to choose on Vg2 and the depth and specialisation of the students who have already decided. So the ability for students to choose some kind of specialization on Vg1 and Vg2 is in today's structure. However, research into the evaluation of the promise of knowledge shows that the possibilities offered by the project for immersion are not sufficiently exploited by the schools, as the interpellant also has it. Large parts of the project for immersion at Vg1 are done at school and not in the workplace, while students at Vg2 are more likely to experience themselves in the workplace. I see that we have a challenge in how the project of immersion is practised at Vg1. The practice is not in line with the intention of allowing students to test out more subjects through the immersion project, which would make it easier for students to choose the right course of education and thus have a positive impact on the implementation of higher education. The Education Directorate is already exploring opportunities for more specialisation in Vg1 so that students can concentrate more on a particular subject early in the course. This study is a response to input from the National Association of Construction, BNL, and is recommended by the Cooperation Council for Vocational Training. I think it is an exciting and important project and I am very pleased with the commitment that the Land Association of Construction has also shown in this matter. Then we have the dilemmas that the interpellant also has, especially the relationship of combining districts, i.e. the possibility of having a good, decentralised secondary education, with the desire for early specialization. But we're going to get back to that balance sheet. Both the deepening and the structure of vocational and vocational training projects are evaluated as part of the evaluation of the Knowledge Lift. We have already received some signals about the project of immersion and the structure of vocational and vocational training through en route reports from the researchers. On the basis of research findings, the Education Directorate has developed and published a guide setting out examples of how to organise and implement projects to help the local level. It is too early to draw conclusions on any major changes in the structure of secondary education, but I will be responsive to good arguments and input and see this in conjunction with the final reports of the evaluation of the 2012 Knowledge Commitment and the Directorate-General for Education's inquiry into specialisation in vocational and vocational training before finalising any changes. I would also like to discuss these changes with the Stortinget, because the commitment of the Education Committee in the Stortinget to the further development of the profession is very crucial and important. At the same time, it is very important to be in close contact with the sector, so that we are sure to make the proposals for changes that we are going to make when summarising the promise of knowledge. I believe that the professional professions have received too little attention in the discussion on the content of secondary education. In the professional field, we need a great deal not only to recruit, but to get implementation and completion up. It is unisony input from those who work with students in the profession and the students themselves, that they want more professional correction both by the community and by the programme subjects. We've done a lot so far without going into dramatic work on curricula, but all the way we need to focus on having more students in the professional field to complete and take a letter. It's a win-win situation – it's a win situation for the students, it's a win situation for the business community, and it's a win situation with regard to future value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e241	I would like to thank the Minister of Knowledge for what I consider to be a good response to the interpellation. I think she took up a lot of important steps that have already been taken, but I just want to repeat some of what I said in the post, that everything is related to everything. When we talk about the profession, we can not just start with the profession and focus on it, but we have to think about the whole thing with early work already in elementary school, having read strategies and focus on Norwegian, having math strategies and focusing on mathematics. When we look at the statistics that there are so many who carry out if they have over 55 primary school credits, what we do before we get to high school is incredibly important. New GIV I consider to be an intermediate stage – a transition to a secondary school that is involved and helps to provide a good basis for higher education. I think what's most important in high school is that we make sure that there's a high school that lays a good foundation for those who're going to go further in the professions. We do that through practical work, which I have faith in, and I think we do it with the election subjects that are now coming. I think it's done by being given a practical part of the ordinary teaching otherwise. I didn't ask the council if she wanted to change the structure, I asked if she would take a review of the structure. I think that's wise to do, and as I perceived it, we're already looking at it. I think it is particularly important to look at construction and technical and industrial production. I talked to a guy named Magnus yesterday, and he goes to Vg2, plant garden. At the school he has attended, they have been offered a deeper project subject already in the first year, so they have it in both the first and second years, i.e. in Vg1 and Vg2. So I asked him, how did you do it when you were going to get an overview of the over 20 subjects that you can choose from Vg2? Then he said they had an intensive period of three months where they went through all these subjects. It was a celebration, a glass tray, a plumber, a wall, a tile laying and a plumber, and everything you'd like to get inside. He thought it was interesting and a very straightforward way to get a little bit of an overview. But I haven't talked to anyone who goes to TIP, about how they're going to get an overview of the 60 subjects they have the opportunity to go on. That's why I'm wondering if it might be wise if we're looking at an opportunity to split up some of the basic courses, maybe we're making two new ones, so that we get a little bit better time, and that you have about 10 to 15 subjects that you're going to have an overview of the first two years. I thank you for the answer so far, and I look forward to a good debate and not least to good input from the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e254	Yes, there will be a review when the Knowledgelift evaluation is available in the spring of 2012. Then we're going to do exactly what the representative here is in. I also very much agree with the perspective drawn up by the interpellant, that we see that there is such a very clear connection between what the students have with their knowledge into higher education and how they succeed. It's not very surprising for us, but it just says that when we're concerned that more students are going to go to high school, we also need to focus on high school and high school and how they're rusted before they get there. A part of the New GIV project is just at Christmas to give tithing a chance to close knowledge gaps before they start in higher education, through intensive reading, writing and calculation training. Last year we offered 2,300 students such a scheme, we have trained 600-700 teachers in particular, and we are now expanding this school year. Our goal is to reach 10 pst. by young people. But when I see what kind of results part of these students can achieve in a few months when we make the training more practical and varied, and that's what we promise them they will get, not more of the old, but a more practical and varied way of working with, for example. When we see that students with 1 and 2 in positions in Norwegian can suddenly get 5 and 6 in oral exams in Norwegian – as we have examples, and we have other examples that look like – it says something about how we have failed in making high school generally more practical and varied. We now want to get – that case is for treatment in Stortinget – a practical, varied, relevant and motivating secondary school, where the electoral profession is an important part of it, but a small part of it. Because we're going to work more convenient and varied in every subject, so that more students feel that they're being taken in the way they learn the best. Then we also get there that they are better rusted when they get into high school. When we also see that there are students with a poorer professional background who apply to the professions, and that – everything else is similar – it is really the starting point they have with them from primary school, which determines how well they succeed in secondary education, it is an additional reminder that here we must have the focus very clearly. So it's like a lot of students are tired of school when they're finished with high school and fail in reading and writing and billing. It also means that a person experiences a lot of defeats, and it's clear that it's not motivating. We also have good experience with the attempt to use practical letters. We have good experience in working life at high school. It's a fantastic summary of that experiment so far. I am very pleased that the red-green government refused to introduce two mandatory foreign languages into high school, because it has just given some air. So here we're working in a wide range just to succeed with what the interpellant wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e267	First, like the Council of State, I want to thank the interpellant for travelling a very important topic. It's for us in the committee, a well-known topic, that we've been in contact with different industries on several occasions. I think the representative of Tingelstad Wøien has a good approach to the issue. It is true that the reason for the drop-out in high school, the drop-out from the profession, is very complex. It's about early efforts, where the government has a strong commitment. It's about having a well-adapted education, and it's not least about improving the quality of high school – which we're doing now, in a new report on high school, where we're going to use practice more as a method, as an input to learning theory better. We're going to make high school more flexible. Not least, the initiative at New GIV, as the Council of State also takes up, gives many a new chance to get up and get a new start in high school. Too many people are also concerned with poor prospects for learning places. We know that too many people can be difficult. You may lack the right contacts, you do not have the acquaintances. Here's a big job to do. That's why I like the Council's signals about the work on a new social contract. It's important that everyone reaches out to work together to create more and provide more places of learning. Here, the private sector has a great responsibility and also does a good job, but not least the public sector has a very great responsibility. A lot is about being aware of getting apprenticeships, especially by making demands on the companies you are using, in tenders. The public sector is a major buyer of goods and services, and in many of those companies there could be many more apprenticeships than it is today. However, the main theme of the interpellant is incredibly important. I think there is a broad consensus that it is very good with wide and wide entrances into professional life. It's early for many to choose exactly what they're going to be when they're 15 years old. Many people may have an idea of what you want to be, but it's good to have a few years to try out different courses. As the interpellant had in mind, engineering and industrial production and construction have been highlighted by many, and I am glad that the Council of State signals that the government is willing to have a review and look at the possibility in this connection. I would nevertheless encourage you to take a review of the whole area, and not just focus on the areas where you've got the most input. There's a lot of things to pick up from doing things together in the beginning, but there's also a big difference between becoming painters, plumbers or carpenters, which you can stay on construction techniques. In places like Oslo, which has one — let's say, small geography, great proximity between schools, this is solved, for example. like Hellerud and Sogn have chosen to do. One school concentrates on the plumbing profession, the other concentrates on the timber trade. Then they also exchange students for periods of time, so that you can follow that subject most closely as you are most interested in. I think it's important, so you get an opportunity to cultivate your interests and thus become more motivated for schoolwork. We've been talking a lot in this room about the professional correction of the common subjects, about Shakespeare in English and other things, but at least as important is getting a good professional correction of the programming subjects. It's about allowing you to deepen what you're interested in. There are many challenges here. It's about economics, it's about equipment in school, but it's also about time in the individual subjects. Even I started on electro, I thought I was going to be an electrician, but ended up being an electrician. I'm very happy about that today. So you get the opportunity through school to see and cultivate other interests. People must not lose motivation through school. You have to be allowed to try, you have to be allowed to master different subjects. That's why I'm glad we can get a review now that can lead to changes in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e288	We in the Progress Party also want to thank the interpellant Tingelstad Wøien for focusing on vocational education in the debate and on how to increase professional competence. Both the interpellant and the Minister of Knowledge clarified the importance of raising the status of professional subjects. This is something we in the Progress Party have been concerned about for a very long time and very much agree that must be done. The European Commission presented the European Barometer on the position on vocational and vocational training on 30 September of the year. It showed that the entire 73 pst. in the opinion of the public, skilled workers are well-invited on the labour market. 56 pst. believed that these had a much greater chance of getting a job after finishing education than those who went to the study-specializing race. Nevertheless, both in Europe in general and here in Norway, vocational education and training is seen to have a lower status in society than in the preparatory directions. Like the rest of Europe, almost over 50 pst. by young people in Norway, vocational training. This is good, and it shows that the offer to choose a career is good and diverse in Norway. Both the representative Tingelstad Wøien and the minister of knowledge mentioned the link between the primary school credits taken from secondary school and the degree of completion in secondary school. But it also shows that there is a clear lack and failure of counselling services in several of the secondary schools, as there is a tendency for the mentally weak students to be advised to choose a practical orientation, while the theoretically strong students are advised to choose a common subject and study-specific subjects. This is why we need to ensure that the counselling service simultaneously looks at vocational education and that it is also important to make theories-strong students choose them. The Minister of Knowledge was also in charge of setting up a new social contract. We think that's very important. A key prerequisite for increasing the attractiveness of the professions is precisely to have the opportunity to complete this training by learning for two years. The problem is that several years ago we entered into a social contract, and it was not fulfilled by the public sector. The private parties fulfilled their part of this contract. It didn't do the public thing. That's why we have to make sure that this social contract is actually fulfilled, and that the public has a much greater focus on creating more apprenticeships. At the same time, we also need to make it more attractive for companies to take in more apprentices. This may include, inter alia: is done by increasing the apprenticeship grant, but also by looking at the possibility of a start-up grant for enterprises that choose to become apprentices, so that we can get more apprenticeships. As mentioned earlier – and also mentioned by the inter-pellant and by us in the Progress Party: It is important to raise the status of the professions. One point here is that when we know that the teacher is the most important and crucial factor for students' motivation and learning, it is also important to look at how to raise the skills of the teachers we have in vocational education today. An important measure we can take here is to put in place a hospitation scheme. This will enable teachers to come out and follow up on the development of skills and the development of working methods and technologies used in their field of competence. It will increase the motivation of the individual teacher, it will increase the level of knowledge of that teacher and, in general, of that school study. It will provide better teachers and more motivated students, provide more practical education, and education will be much more linked to the labour market they meet. At the same time, it is important for us in the Progress Party to point out that cooperation with business is incredibly important. That is why we need to get a practical correction of the common subjects much earlier in the course of education, while at the same time making the students experience the theory they have, as much more close to what they're going to learn later. With more practical correction, we also need to make it possible to get into practice in the past — as early as the first year — so that students can gain more competence in the practice they are going to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e303	I would like to join in the sequence of those who thank Tingelstad Wøien for taking up this interpellation. This is, as many have been involved, a matter we have been very concerned about in our committee. I think it's very nice that we raise it in the hall and remind each other that we have to do something more, that there has to be some results out of what we've been talking about. That's very good. In Norway, we have a great education system. We're gonna be proud of that. I need to remind you of that. We often talk about the challenges, but we have a good system. We have a good system that will provide a free offer to everyone, and a varied offer to everyone. We want everyone to be raised to a certain level, regardless of their entry point. We want everyone to have opportunities. That's good. It's a fantastic system. But then the experience has shown us that this system has some weaknesses. The Council of State and Tingelstad Wøien hoped that during this debate we would make recordings that would be good to take along. Then it is tempting to take the professional lift from the Right, which we launched half a year/two years ago. But it wouldn't surprise me much if the council had our professional lift in their papers. I'll at least recommend it, because it's coincident with a lot of what's taken up here. It's good to notice that there's a common sense of what we have to do. It is also good to hear that the social contract is approaching. We have requested it several times, and now I heard the council say it will come during the fall. We're going to hope that it comes into place, because one of the worst things is that those who go so far as to teach, don't get a lesson – and thus give up. It's one of the saddest things about those who don't get to finish their education. So we have great expectations of it. Tingelstad Wøien points to two important things: they are the ones that do not complete, and the professional competence. It's a serious defeat not to complete what you've started on. It's bad to see some of these students who would like to, but who just don't have power. I personally know quite a lot of teachers in the professional field, and they're hurting too. They see that students they have worked with, and they have tried to help, still fall from the way. It is a cross-section of thought that we have also established a system of vocational training that allows us to choose to move on up the system, but does not help those who are unable to complete the first part. We have a system that provides good opportunities for those who get through, but we don't have a good enough system to catch up and give the opportunity for those who are about to fall out, or fall out. They have good skills and good interests, but lack the adaptation to be made. I hope that the result of the work we are doing now is that one should dry up to make new attempts. There are regular applicants to do that, but it has not been so easy to get the opportunity to do things in other ways. I think it'll be important for us to do that now. Several have been involved in the entrance competence. It's clear that what we're doing now with the school system in general is hoping and thinking we're going to deliver results in high school too. Right had a school seminar a few days ago, and some of the strongest thing there was when we met Kim, who is now going to Soon Sea School. He was listed by the school, would enter Soon Sea School, just be there and not get grades. After a short time he was mature to follow the system, few grades, take an education and move on. A little change in the environment, in attention, in follow-up – and so it triggered his abilities in a good way. It's great to look at – we have to experience this several times. So to an important point that Tingelstad Wøien takes up. We're going to have vocational training that gives us highly skilled professionals, and we're going to make sure that the students have the skills required by the industry. We have had many meetings with industries that point to lack of basic knowledge, and that there is no way to follow up the requirement for evidence that has come. There's a lot to do. It has been said so much that we need to adapt this so that the professional is cared for – with depression, with a narrowing of Vg1 – and I hope and believe that we will work together to get better solutions. I hope that a total accumulation will find good solutions for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e324	This is an important topic, and I'm glad we're having the opportunity to discuss it. I am also pleased that we have now heard together well over half an hour with posts from red-green politicians without that – as far as I have got with me, and that will show – the legal right to apprenticeship places has been mentioned. I take it as a clear signal that the majority has taken the sense, and that a total increase, I think, can stand behind the important job that the Ministry of Knowledge has started to set up community contracts to provide more apprenticeships. We know that much of the dropout in high school comes as a result of a lack of places of practice and apprenticeships. But, as I said, the Group of the Progressive Alliance is looking forward to contributing to an important work on social contracts, both to the states and to the business community. We want to make a positive contribution to this and are happy that the legal right to apprenticeship is now clearly lost. I hope that the job with a social contract will also mean making a promise to employers as to how lucrative it is today to make apprenticeships available, especially in the more demanding apprenticeships, for example. within the TAF scheme and something that can be called sister-modes to organise tougher vocational education and training. Since the Council of State invited us to make recordings, I would like to make a concrete input that the Council of State might have to bring up with its colleagues in the government, and it is more important to focus on using the governance guide to external agencies, for example. health enterprises, which are fully instrumental in this context, to increase the proportion of apprenticeship places in that sector, and to encourage the local government minister to address this issue with the municipalities. I felt that the Council of State was constructive when the Group of the Advance Party had six to seven representatives here in the Chamber who challenged different expert councils on precisely this with access to apprenticeships. I hope this is also included in the further work. So I know that in both Agder and Buskerud work is now being done that not only those who choose TAF, but also other professionals get to work early. I think the interpellant is concerned about something important. We have discussed Shakespeare before – this was also mentioned by the representative of Wickholm. One thing is to make theory easier. Of course, it's easier to get people through this system if you remove all demands, but I think you can achieve at least the same amount by showing these students from the first year, through practice out in real life, why the theory they're learning at school is important for the job they're going to do later on. It is clear that this also has a cost side, but it is probably primarily about the fact that the Education Directorate may need to be informed that this needs to be facilitated, rather than making administrative obstacles to that type of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e339	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I just want to repeat what Harberg's representative said, that there were really two things that were important in the interpellation that I took up: it's about apostasy, but it's essentially about getting the good professionals. Whether you're taking a special subject or a professional, we're going to have good people who know their profession. I just want to comment briefly on some of the things that have been said, including: this with classrooms. It points to the responsibility of private companies, but not least the public responsibility. I fully agree that the public is following in this particular area. But there is something with responsibility as well. Who is responsible for getting the apprenticeships? I think the county councils have to take a much greater responsibility for the last two years of training after you have completed Vg1 and Vg2. It takes time to call around and get apprenticeship places and follow-up apprenticeships. But now we see the results of the action – with, among other things, NHO – ‘Action apprenticeship’, which has taken place in Oppland, Østfold and Oslo/Akershus, I think. In Oppland, they went out to 1,200 different companies. 120 of them agreed to become apprentices. But then they've got a question about becoming a learning business. There's a lot of people who work hard to become a learning business because they're not quite familiar with what it means to them as a business, and they might think it's a hard thing to be a learning business. So there I think we have a lot to do. So a little bit to what the representative Tord Lien was into. It's about flexibility and getting into practice in the past. It was just one of the things I mentioned in the main post, that there are many schools that don't let the students out in practice until Vg2. I think that's a little surprising. So if I'm going to take the school that's closest to me in Uppland, they have one day out in practice every week. Maybe it should be more on the first step too. So it's already possible with today's system, and it's possible to adapt to this, not to have two plus two, but one plus three, etc. So it is right for it already today. Then I think what has been said about the competence of teachers, is also important, because if we are to get students safely through vocational training, we also need to have good competence with teachers, as the representative Hanekamhaug said. Hospitating is one important option. This is done in some counties today. Among other things, they do it in Uppland. Then we have to remember that professionals also need continuing training. I think it is very important that the county councils bring it with them when they think about continuing training. Then I also think that we should be more good at using the Lecturer 2 system, where we bring in people with skills from work who can teach at school. I'm very happy that we get a review of the structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e354	I am pleased with the broad commitment that exists in the Storting in terms of the professions. I think it's a very important resource to carry on, too, because here we have a great job to do together to raise the status and recruitment to the profession, to increase respect for practical work, to get business to see how vulnerable you are if we don't succeed in doing this. When it comes to the right to a place of study, I have never imagined that it was a good learning situation to ask individual companies not to take in apprentices. But I think it is a great paradox that we are asking young people to choose a profession without being able to guarantee them, in the same way that those who choose to take the special course of studies, to be able to complete their education as they have intended. So we have to have a completely different commitment from all parties to get enough apprenticeships. Now, it looks like we're making a good progress this year in terms of apprenticeship places at the time of count on 1 September. This may mean that the work on apprenticeship places has been developed – it is also important – but I have a hope that we have already received a much greater attention about it. It's very good that the NHO has started their job to get more apprenticeships. We have to do a job in the public sector, both in municipalities and in the state. We have to work on tendering systems. We have a chance that the companies that take responsibility for future relatives and for the industry's own future can actually take advantage of how we work with tenders. Then I very much agree with the representative Hanekamhaug's emphasis on the advisory service. It is still too many advisers, unfortunately, in high school who do not have sufficient insight into what it means to take vocational training, and it goes too far in automation, that theories-strong students are recommended to go for specialisation in the field of study — and perhaps do not see the opportunities that lie in the professional path either. Just two weeks ago, I was present at a WorldSkills World Championship in London, where young apprentices and trade unionists competed for the best. We did it better than ever before, and we had together 21 young apprentices and trade union workers who participated in the competition. We got one gold and two bronzes, and half got the Medal of Excellence. It is an event that helps raise the status of professional subjects. We got gold for a young cook, and we got bronze for an electrician and a car varnisher. It was incredibly funny to see them in action. I want us to think beyond what we've really been discussing here today, to see if we can jointly raise the interest and status of the professions even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e368	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e384	As the President has already mentioned, this interpellation is about gender differences when it comes to education. The background for this is that we know that there are significant gender differences on many measurable factors. We know that from the PISA study. There's a clear tendency for girls in general to do better. There's no strange phenomenon, and we know from the PISA study that there's a difference from high school, up through high school and high school. I think we need a big debate on this. I believe that we are familiar with many parts of the budget. There has been a tradition in the ministry for many years. How do the different measures relate to gender — for men and women? Do we find discrimination points anywhere? And then it's supposed to be put into action policies to fix it. The background for this is, of course, that we want an equal society. We want men and women to have equal opportunities. We want all children to be met the same way, no matter what background they have. It is then important that we get first and foremost knowledge of gender differences, but also that we can take action. We know a lot – and I'll say a little more about it – about these differences, but the reason why I'm dealing with this as an interpellation now is that we've been in the committee on several occasions. Among other things, when we've been on foreign trips, all committee members systematically and widely ask the institutions we meet in the countries we're in, what the explanation might be. The most eye-catching thing is that many people say you don't know completely. You can't explain why it's like this. In a country that the Netherlands, which the Committee recently visited, have smaller gender differences between boys and girls, but they cannot explain it either. Countries such as Finland have quite significant differences, and Norway also has significant differences. We need more knowledge about this, and that is why I want there to be a wide-ranging debate on it in Stortinget. The most worrying thing is that it probably starts at a young age. All of us who are close to children, who are parents or know children, who are close to school, know that children and young people are developing differently, and that it is also a little bit related to what kind of sex you have. As a principal I know, who accepts our young people at high school, said, "We often get boys who are like 10-year-olds, both physically and individually mature, and we get girls who are like 16-year-olds, and they go into the same class. We have a knowledge promise that defines what they should be able to – very precisely – and it may not take enough into account that children evolve differently, and that it is more systematic than what we might like to believe. At least what the research shows – because we know something – is that the serious thing about this is that there are more boys falling off. The differences in character turn out, so we now look at grades from higher education that female students consistently have better grades than male students. It's probably because the basic skills are better for girls already from high school. Already in the 13th-14th century, we see this. Girls have higher ambitions when they think about what they're going to be when they're 13-14 years old. The largest proportion of high school students who want to start higher education are middle-class students with a minority background. The lowest proportion is found among boys with working class backgrounds. This is reinforced by the age of 15 to 16. Then they have had to make choices by thinking through the education plans, and many of those who want higher education have gained a lower level of ambition. As a result, it is difficult to know, but a researcher believes that this can be about the lack of information on the relationship between what you need to be able to do at school and what you need to bring with you from high school and from higher education to higher education. What is also the trend is that there are many more women than men taking higher education. This trend is intensifying. In 1985 the proportion was equal to. After that, it has been significantly shifted for the benefit of women. Women take the long courses in higher education, while men take the short ones. Nevertheless, there are points where there is reason for a little optimism, because it turns out that the differences in character between girls and boys vary quite considerably from school to school. We know from school research and national tests that there are considerable differences between schools. This applies not only to Norway but also to many other countries. That means there are some schools where these differences are much smaller than in other schools. This in itself should indicate that it is possible to influence this. But what about these schools, where they've found less differences between the sexes, which are interesting to notice? Gender differences vary according to the number of students per contact teacher. The fewer students there are per contact teacher, the smaller the differences in gender performance. It also turns out that smaller schools have less differences than large schools. According to NOVA, this may have something to do with the learning environment, not least with counselling, guidance. It was up in the previous debate, but again it turns out that it is an element that immediately turns out, both in terms of further career choices and in terms of how to improve at school. Schools with a very clear focus on skills targets have less gender differences than other schools. The same is true if it's quieter in the hour, if you don't interfere so much with each other and work more concentratedly, and if there's a high degree of internal motivation. Internal motivation is important for Norwegian students. This is interesting, for the external motivation – as one might say. in some of the developing countries, how many children want to receive education because they are otherwise in very poor conditions — are not so strong in Norway. You're doing pretty well here, anyway. It is internal motivation that brings up the level of Norwegian school students, and in particular it may indicate that more work needs to be done with boys when it comes to that particular piece. I also believe that despite these points that NOVA has referred to, we need more research on it, we need more knowledge and more systematic approach. I also think that we're going to use other disciplines than just pedagogics. I think psychology is a subject that should be more closely involved in teacher training. Understanding more about how the brain evolves, how the difference between girls and boys in the age category from being an 11-year-old to being a 17-18-year-old can give us valuable knowledge about how to take action. By improving research in that way, I think we can get a much broader collection of information. I think that had been the opposite, that if the group that had so high abstinence and so great a difference in grades in its disfavor, had consisted of girls, I think there would have been more attention to it, in fact. This is so serious that we can't attack it by saying, yes, yes, boys and girls are different, as it gets. That's how we treated ourselves to gender differences in the old days – not in an equal society that we have in Norway today. That's why I've addressed this interpolation. I know that it may be difficult for the Minister of Knowledge to determine with a broad pen what is the cause of this, and what we are going to do with this. The aim of the interpellation is to have a dialogue and to develop constructive ideas throughout the national assembly and among dedicated members of the education committee, so that we can raise the debate. Maybe we can get through it a little bit further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e421	The starting point of the inter-pellant is correct. It is true that girls in general have better results in Norwegian school than boys do. There are gender differences in both non-response, measurable learning outcomes and choice of education. In terms of learning outcomes, there are systematic differences between girls and boys in girls' favours. This difference in performance between boys and girls has been relatively stable over time, with the exception that girls have re-occurred the boys have traditionally had in real science. So the tendency has become stronger, rather than the opposite. Girls get better grades than boys in most subjects at the end of primary school, both in position and for exams. The gender difference is clear if we look at average primary school scores, where the girls averaged 41.9 points, while the boys score 37.9 points in 2009–2010. Girls also achieve significantly better grades than boys in most upper secondary education subjects. There are more girls than boys who complete secondary education. However, it is important to note that the differences in learning outcomes between girls and boys are often small and that there are average differences. The variation within girls and boys groups is greater than the variation between boys and girls. If we compare performance differences with gender backgrounds to performance differences with class backgrounds, differences are based on students' social class backgrounds three to four times larger. So the productions of boys like losers and girls who win at school, we don't have to perform in such a way that it simplifies. The PISA study shows that gender differences in Norway are part of an international pattern. The gender difference in reading in girls’ favour in PISA 2009 is significant in all countries both within and outside the OECD. Finland, which is doing so well in the PISA surveys, is the country with the highest gender differences in reading in 2009. In Norway, too, gender differences are greater than the average. In mathematics, gender differences are low in the Nordic countries and Norway. In natural sciences, gender differences in most PISA countries are relatively small. In Norway, there are only negligible gender differences in the favour of girls. Norwegian students also make gender stereotypes of educational choices — especially in the professional fields. Girls are overrepresented in health and social sciences, boys in construction and electrical sciences. For us who are engaged in school and education, it is important to remember that the school does not operate in a vacuum. Researchers Anders Bakken and Kirsten Danielsen at NOVA have looked at the relationship between gender and learning outcomes in their project during the evaluation of the Knowledge promise: The Knowledge promise – also a boost for the cohesion of social inequalities in learning outcomes? Researchers find that what they call ‘school external relations’, i.e. outside school control, contributes to the systematic differences in performance that can be observed in youth. Youth schools reproduce the differences between students who were present at the beginning of childhood. This happened no matter how well-developed the learning culture was in the different schools. Researchers stress that we should not underestimate the importance of society's role around the school. The student's everyday life is much more than the school. The professional and social development of individual young people is shaped by interactions between school, friends, home environment and leisure activities. Students are part of a youth culture, and this youth culture is of great importance in the way the student experiences and tackles school everyday life. The sex of the student can be a determining factor in social interaction. In such a complicated reality, we have to see that there is not just one solution, but different solutions. What can be done to give boys and girls equal opportunities to succeed in the education system? I have submitted a big message about the youth class, which I have called Motivation – Mestring – Possibilities, Report. St. 22 for 2010–2011. The aim of renewing youth is to make training more varied and relevant. Three areas of action are particularly important: We will increase freedom of choice through the introduction of the electoral profession and flexibility. The offer of elective skills shall provide all pupils with professional challenges. We'll bet on better classroom management to provide good learning and a good learning environment. The teacher's ability to be a good class leader is a prerequisite for creating varied training. We want to give better training in basic skills accounting and reading. Especially with regard to reading, the issue of boys’ interest and results is crucial. In general, we can say that the PISA surveys show that the boys are one year after the girls' development in terms of reading, even though they are the same age. I'm sure that increasing the quality in this way in childhood will benefit many of the boys. By making training more practical and relevant, it will also be more motivating, and the ‘good culture’ will be better addressed especially in the youth sector. I'm saying the boy culture in quotes. Reading is a key skill that is crucial to getting good learning outcomes in most subjects. As I pointed out earlier, we see that reading, and reading training in particular, is a challenge for the boys. That is why the Youth Level Communication also offers a special commitment to continuing the reading we have started, but which we need to improve, in particular in order to strengthen the boys' interest in reading and their literacy skills. New GIV – implementation in secondary education – is the government’s new initiative to get more people to complete secondary education. The new GIV is a three-year project aimed at establishing lasting cooperation between state, county and local authorities in order to improve the students’ prerequisites for completing and completing secondary education. Since boys are overrepresented in non-response statistics, we reach many of them through the New GIV initiative. The project includes: many 10th-stage boys have the opportunity to increase their own skills so that they have a completely different opportunity to take part in secondary education and to take part in working life. To date, 2,300 tenths of 205 secondary schools in 50 municipalities have received this reinforced training. The schooling of teachers in this context has received a very good evaluation. Many of the students show very clear progress. The new GIV also has a project we call the Follow-up Project – a transitional project for the transition between the 10th stage and higher. The follow-up project is a project to follow up the rivers that are neither in secondary education nor in work. After six months of project action, the county follow-up service on a national basis has halved the number of unknown young people from nearly 10,000 young people with unknown activity to less than 5000. It's a big cross of thought, I must say, there were 10,000 young people in this age group just a short time ago who we didn't know where they were or what they were doing. We now have a much better starting point, but now it's about following them up and actually making sure they get an offer. It is now working intensively to get schools, follow-up services and hubs to coordinate the use of instruments against this group. More than 500 employees in these services are currently on common training courses to follow up this work. There is not one youth aged 16–21 in Norway who, according to my objective, is not to be monitored closely! In its Communication on Youth, the Ministry also proposes to assess changes in the compulsory subject of education choice in order to ensure that the subject provides a good basis for students’ choice of further education and to assess how the subject can contribute to less gender stereotyped choices. Finally, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to address this complicated, but very important and interesting discussion involving many other actors than us in the school sector. The school sector is very important, but there are also major challenges to work, culture and the voluntary sector. Therefore, it is essential that we think completely and work together. A combination of gender differences and class differences in Norwegian schools means that in particular some boys who do not have high-school parents will have a more demanding starting point. It is my goal that we can work so varied in Norwegian school that we also reach and raise these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e465	Thank you for a good answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge underlines what should always be stressed when discussing gender differences, namely that it is not that all boys read poorly and that all girls read well. Of course it's not like that. In the same way that neither is it that since there are few female leaders, women are not suitable to be leaders. Of course it's not like that. The gender debate needs to be made much more nuanced. That's why I'm also glad that Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen addressed this with social differences, because it's the connection between social differences and sex that makes you have reason to be extra worried. This means in quite clear terms that a boy who is six years old and is going to start school, who has a traditional working-class background, is likely to do worse in school than a girl who has a middle-class background, who comes in addition from an immigrant family — in fact. That in itself is not equal opportunities. Then there's something we have to do systematically. So the question is what are we going to do? When we hear that boys are one year behind in reading, it's clear that it's quite serious. There's a lot of difference here, too. What's the question, is whether this has social reasons, which the Minister of Knowledge had in mind. We need to figure that out more. What is it about in relation to the interaction of society for the rest, such as friends, culture and expectations, not least? What are the expectations in the environments in which you are born? Of course, the family, the friends or where you live affects you, but I also think we can't jump over this for biological reasons. There has been a debate about gender – around heritage and environment, and diverse and diverse – but I think we have too little knowledge about how children learn in the phase since childhood, early puberty. There are more psychologists who have pointed out this by the fact that boys' brains evolve at a different rate than girls. Is there anything there? If it's not, okay, then it's okay. We've examined it, but I think we can't just leave it to sociologists, anthropologists and sex researchers, but we also have to look at the pedagogical, psychological aspect. So just an anecdote in the end where you can make your reflections: the guys in the class of my youngest daughter became some decent reading horses when a competition was arranged about who read the most books. It might trigger boys in a different way than girls – what do I know?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e474	I think I have coverage to say that literature is full of examples of male writers that describe how the young and immature should relate to mature girls of the same age. This is a relatively well-known problem that many boys have been struggling with – and so far girls too. It's obvious that there's a difference in the rate of development and maturity between girls and boys. You can see very clearly, especially in high school, that reaching the width of students at different levels of maturity, which you have to do there, is quite demanding. In various international contexts, I have been concerned with taking initiatives to find more common research and knowledge on why there are so many gender differences. It's true, as the interpellant says, that it varies between countries. It is a systematic international trend, so this is not just us in Norway, but a challenge that very many countries have. I was in Qatar recently. All those who think that Qatari women are women who don't have access to education, I just want to mention the following: 77 pst. by students at the university – in a Muslim golfing country – are women. So also in countries where many believe – what to say – that women are being kept down in the education system, there is a huge upsurge among them. However, the greater the concern for some of the boys — who have access to education, free opportunity, but who do not use it. In international contexts, I intend to follow up on the fact that here we have some challenges in which we should be looking for some common answers. So I think the interpellant might have a point that there might be a little bit different things that motivate girls and boys, and that the outer motivation, or the competitive instinct, can be a little bit stronger in boy culture than in girl culture. One might in various ways think of having some carrots to suit the reading interest, but I think in particular that it's the content of what you read, which is essential to arouse boys' interest, and that we've too much aroused the girls' reading interest through novels and novels and not thinking that the starting point might be that you should put yourself in the harness to find literature that triggers the boys. We have a lot of good examples of both libraries and Norwegian teachers working very systematically to get the reading interest of the boys. We see that that gives good results. I think that we need to work together not only to ensure that we get better knowledge in the field of school and education, but also to see that this is very closely related to the gender differences we have in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e491	Thanks to the interpellant and the Council of State for good discussions and discussions on this issue. We know – and we know it over a relatively long time and have evidence of it – that girls do better in school than boys. As mentioned earlier, the results of the 2009 PISA survey show that there are still considerable gender differences in the subjects of mathematics and natural sciences, but the difference is highest in reading. The percentage of weak readers is going down. That's good. But it's 21 pst. by the boys who score below level 2 in reading, and 8 pst. by the girls lying at this level. It's worrying. Researchers have pointed out that students who do not reach level 2 will have major problems in continuing training because they are unable to read to learn. They don't understand enough of what they read, even if they read. The problem is enough that students lack training in reading texts in a more adult language, which requires detailed and accurate reading. This reading competence is, as we all know, absolutely necessary if we are to survive in further education and in the workplace. Professor Thomas Nordahl at the Hedmark University, which we all know well, has summarised data from a survey of 9,400 students from the 5th to the 10th stage. Particular attention is paid to differences and similarities in the situation of boys and girls in schools with regard to grades, social skills, motivation and well-being. The results of the Christmas 8th, 9th and 10th grade survey in the Norwegian, mathematical and English subjects show that the girls have significantly better learning outcomes in all the basic subjects in the school. Does this mean that we have over time developed a school for the girls, for the good girls, and that the boys generally don't find themselves comfortable in school? I think that might be reason to believe. Why – and what is the challenge? That also asks the interpellant about. Motivation research shows that there are differences between the motivation of boys and girls. The tendency is that boys’ motives are related to positions, status, control and autonomy, while girls’ motivation is more closely related to others, support from others, adaptation and conformity. Professor Nordahl points to an interesting point that boys' desire to be the best also contributes to some boys being motivated by fear of failure more easily than girls. Researchers point to the fact that the primary school today is relatively heavily influenced by theoretical subjects, cognitive approaches and individualised education, where students are given a very high responsibility for their own learning. Furthermore, in recent years it appears to have become somewhat less common learning, less educational structure and less clear expectations of learners' learning. This may indicate a link between this trend in schools and the relatively poor performance of boys. Maybe it's not so cool to be a boy and be good at school. I believe that one answer to the challenge could be to recruit more male teachers. We depend not only on more people choosing to become teachers, but also on more men choosing this profession. That boys don't do well in school, and that's because they're naturally more troublesome and troubled, is not an explanation we can accept and live with. We need to take the research seriously and work systematically to make the school good for everyone. Finally, it is important to clarify that NOVA research shows that the student’s gender does not reflect the student’s nature as well as the educational background and educational culture of the parents at school. It turns out that the differences in character between boys and girls vary from school to school. This means that differences between sexes can be influenced and that schools have greater potential to reduce differences in performance. At the same time, this underlines the importance of an offensive school cohesion policy in order to prevent ‘heritage’ traits. The fact that you're a boy will be a strengthening factor today because you're struggling at school if your parents have lower education and you're going to a school that lacks culture for learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e512	I actually have an ambivalent relationship with the position interpolating with its own Council of State. However, when one sees today that the temperature of the debate is already rising before the first opposition politician has arrived in the pulpit, it is quite obvious that these interpellations have an effect. Today, for the third or fourth time, it has been published to find Aldous/Avaldsnes in the Utsira formation is larger than has been assumed – also the last time. We're going to extract between 1,000 and 2,600 million barrels of oil. I believe that it is going to be Norwegian engineers who are going to plan the extraction of that oil. I'm not sure, with the situation we have today, if we can have enough skilled workers, with the challenges that boys have in school, that Norwegian workers with a Norwegian educational background will be the main player in the development. As both the interpellant and the representative Ljunggren are involved, there are obviously many differences in the Norwegian school, among others. in the case of parental involvement, but the big problem is that there are boys with a weaker social background who are really struggling. There are almost three times as many boys as girls who are not functional readers after primary school. This is a problem, and it is a problem that I am pleased that the two speakers of the Labour Party are very clear. Then I'm a little surprised, because I felt that the Council of State was trying to make that problem a smaller problem than it is. Many of these boys, who should have become skilled workers, are now faced with a situation — after ten years in primary school — that will make it difficult for them both to take vocational training and to have a long-term and permanent link with Norwegian working life. It's a big problem. As I said, I therefore appreciate the temperature that I felt was building up here between the staging representatives from the position and the council. So we have to try to be a little concrete here. I believe that one of the reasons for this situation in Norwegian school is that you have an acceptance that the boys learn less. It was actually also the interpellant inside. In those schools that have a clear focus on skills goals – what I want to call a high level of learning pressure – you can see that these differences are smaller. So we have to stop having this approach: Poor, little friend, you're a boy and so little mature that it's going to be safe for next year, in the fourth grade, in the sixth grade, in the eighth grade, in the 10th grade, and then we get New GIV after Christmas – after ten years at school without mastering. That's not good enough. We have to stop accepting that boys don't learn, but have a lot of learning pressure. We know the professional competence of the teachers. Professionally strong teachers are best for all students, but are also socially equalizing. Responsibility for own learning – the representative Ljunggren was in on it – can surely handle mature girls well, but for boys, group work and responsibility for own learning are directly counterproductive. In group work, you learn to work together, but you don't necessarily learn a subject. The theoretically powerful students are horrified to do the job for the intellectually weak, and the intellectually weak learn nothing from the fact that the theoretically powerful students are doing the group work alone. In the case of open schools, we see – and here it is not about the right-hand side or the left-hand side, although it was the Workers' Party that was first out there – that local politicians build such schools all over the world. It is just before I say that it should have been banned. This does not lead to an increase in learning outcomes for boys, who obviously have greater concentration difficulties, and who have much more difficulty remaining in the classroom when there are 100 students than when there are 25. At ease and order: Carl I. Hagen, my former party leader, talked about how important peace and order was in the Norwegian school in the old days. You just flirted off and said it's just nonsense. Today, through student studies and PISA tests, we know that peace and order are a problem. For girls who are able to close this out and sit down and read in the book, the problem is smaller than for boys, who both contribute to the trouble and are much more concerned about following the fight. Then I think – just at the end, before I take it all off – that the interpellant is about something important when it comes to connecting the strong professional environments we have in Norway to motor and learning, psychology and pedagogics. The previous Church, Education and Research Committee clearly stated that a centre should be set up to coordinate this research. I think that if we are to do something quite concrete, we have to take up the plans that the previous church, education and research committee largely agreed on, namely to set up such a centre to combine psychology, motorism and learning and pedagogics.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e531	Interpellant Marianne Aasen believes that the theme she is addressing today, which is about sex and education – the differences between the sexes – is an important issue that deserves debate here in the Chamber. I fully agree with that. That's why I also addressed the exact same topic a little over a year ago, in an interpellation here in Stortinget. That interpellation took place on 8 June last year. It has been a bit interesting to follow the debate today and at the same time read the minutes of the debate last year. It is clear that there are several people who have moved little in this matter over a decade. I think the interpellant Marianne Aasen had a very good formulation when she said that we can't just say yes, yes, there's a difference between boys and girls, but now it's just going to be like this. I fully agree when you study the differences and the statistics a little bit more closely. But that was the conclusion of the interpellation debate last year. There was no interest whatsoever in taking these issues seriously, and I also encouraged the Council of State at the time to take the initiative for further research in this area – it is stated in the interpellation text. It wasn't an interest. Unfortunately, I must say, Mr Lien did not take part in last year's debate, but last year's entry into the debate had a completely different conclusion from that of Mr Lien, so the Progress Party has also moved significantly. So for those who want to compare the two debates, it's possible to read both when this also comes in the form of the minutes. That's pretty interesting. I think we're dealing with a problem that requires a prejudiced debate. But it is clear that the prejudices were much stronger last year. Danish brain research, which is relatively fresh, but it was also available last year, shows that there are significant differences in the ability of six-year-olds to concentrate. Six-year-old boys are able to concentrate a little bit on the other side of 20 minutes, while six-year-old girls are able to concentrate a little bit on the other side of 40 minutes, twice as long. Does this have any meaning in how we organize the teaching? Most school students will obviously see the consequences of the length of a school hour, or the length of time to expect and require students to be able to sit still and be concentrated. The girls do it twice as long as the boys at six years of age, and that's by chance when they start school in Norway. Four times as many boys as girls get the diagnosis of ADHD, i.e. strongly deficient behaviour. Does it matter? Yes, it is probably also related to that 70-80 pst. by students receiving special education in Norwegian school are boys. So we know that special education is too small, and it's definitely going to be too late. There has been a cross-political agreement between the Committee after, for example: have looked at how to do this in Finland. It's too little, and it's too late. The Minister of Knowledge himself mentioned the New GIV project, the special, almost stunt that is now being done, which is obviously very good, and which is being deployed against students in the 10th grade who are struggling. But these students have worn out for a long time, probably. The problems don't occur in the last six months in the 10th grade, that's probably when they reach their peak. It is too late to apply the measures then, although it is good to do so, if the option was that nothing was done. But it is a paradox that KS, which represents all the school owners in Norway, to the Committee just days ago in a special hearing for KS, was concerned about problemating this measure because it is contrary to the Training Act's ban on levelling students, and has taken this up with the Council of State and with the Ministry. It must be quite self-contradictory that when the government looks for action to take, it must grant itself exceptions from its own laws and regulations. I think that special education has too high a threshold, it's too late, and it's important for boys, who are obviously over-represented in these statistics, also in secondary school drop-off statistics. We need to make a settlement with the dogmatic views of the Training Act on how to divide students into groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e546	Thank you for contributing to the debate. I think it's always nice to hear different approaches to these kinds of issues. Anna Ljunggren brought this up with male teachers. I think that's a point in itself, especially when we know that the teacher's relationship with the individual student is very important for learning outcomes. Then we need different types of teachers. We need different types of teachers who can communicate differently with different types of students. We can't expect any teacher to do that job 100 pst. optimal for any type of student – until there are children for different. So I mean that absolutely is a point. We also need to make sure that there are different types of people who become teachers. The temperature of the debate was very hot, as far as I could see Tord Lien. I have some problems seeing it get so hot. I'm well aware that the Minister of Knowledge and I even had a good dialogue about these issues and filled each other out. But I very much agree with Tord Lien when he takes it up with low expectations. Because if children are in environments where there are low expectations for the school, where the school is spoken down, where the teacher is spoken negatively – whether it happens in the circle of friends, or it happens in the family – it is clear that it is very important, and also if that's how the expectations are low at school, because you're a boy, and we know that the mother and your father are, so we can count on the donkey it's going to be! It's very scary, just plain, and it's not fair. I think it is quite frightening that children experience it. Then I want to get back to what I talked about in the field of psychology, which both the representative of Warloe and the representative of Lien were involved. We know from the whole field of research that probably the greatest undissolved force there is to cooperate across disciplines. Pedagogics is not an exception. When there is a tradition that teacher training has lasted for a hundred years with their teacher training, it may also have led them to keep the discipline to themselves. I think we have to actively do something about that. All disciplines have a lot to gain from cooperating more across disciplines, and especially with regard to psychology, I think it's something to pick up in relation to pedagogics. So some comments to Warloe finally. We're getting very curious to read the debate from last year. We can't remember all the debates, it must be admitted. But I mean now it's the last thing that's going on, it's drumming up the last debate. So we'll be able to live with that we've discussed this before. But thank you for the reminder! In the case of New GIV, it's legal late, but it's not too late. It's actually going to be a lot to do in the last half of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e561	I thought I knew the representative Tord Lien pretty well, but there's obviously some knowledge gap. Too high a temperature for the undersigned I won't exactly call it in the discussion we've had here! We have more to go to both the interpellant and the undersigned in terms of contributing to a high temperature. I think we've had a constructive and important debate, but it's important to balance up with what we know from educational research on the differences between girls and boys and class differences, and then we know that class differences explain the greatest differences in school. However, it is clear that in addition to sex covariance, there is a clear, significant challenge in providing a good starting point for life — and for employment — for a number of boys. We know that we have far too poor results in some areas, in terms of reading – it does not matter only to the labour market, it is important to be able to participate in a democracy, to be active citizens – but also in terms of real science, among others. Mathematics. I have a hope that we'll meet several of these guys if we can work more varied and practical throughout school, but not least in high school. At least at that stage, the high school, where there are so many other things happening in youth life, it's vital that we manage to hold on to the motivation, and then at least it's very much in demand and very expressed by the young people themselves that it has great significance. We also have very good experience with practical letters, which we are now running and evaluating. To a large extent, it's about very school-ridden boys who have had the opportunity to start working with a little school instead of the other way around, and who suddenly manage to get a different motivation to complete a course of education, and who suddenly master and thrive in a better way as well. So I think that the approach of more varied practical races hits part of these guys a lot better and contributes to motivation and learning. So I'm absolutely sure we have a lot to pick up on being much more multidisciplinary, both in terms of knowledge from psychology into pedagogics, and in terms of other things that have to do with the development of children and young people. I'm absolutely sure we have a lot to learn, as the interpellant is about as well. So I think maybe if we saw this systematic from school again in society as a whole, that this meant that women dominated in absolutely all areas, served the most, had all the privileges of society, then we would be more alarmed, especially if the gender differences were the opposite. But it's actually like they're not going to go down, these guys. There are still a lot of areas where if we were to draw the gender image of Norwegian society, then there are women who are underprivileged. But we have to bring those shades with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e573	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-21.ana.ud1329e586	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
