ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e122	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e125	With this, I will hand over a representative proposal from Ola Elvestuen and myself to set up a Wergeland centre in Grotten before the anniversary of the Constitution in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e130	The representative, Åse Michaelsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e133	I am delighted to promote a proposal by the depositors Per Sandberg, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Morten Ørsal Johansen and signed on a change in the practice of residence of the custodian.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e138	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e141	I will, on behalf of Bjørn Lødemel, Siri A. Meling, Olemic Thommessen, Ingerd Schou and myself, propose measures to improve the possibilities of caring for peaceful buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e146	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e160	Let me just make a little post on the presidential decision. The record of the duties and financial interests of the EEAS contributes to the transparency and visibility of any conflicts of interest that may arise between the profession as a EEAS and private financial interests. The Presidency is concerned that there should also be transparency about the financial interests and working conditions of the alternates outside the Grand Duchy. The Presidency therefore proposes that the register system be extended to include meeting alternates. Only information about the alternates actually meeting at Stortinget is to be recorded. The registration shall be made at the first meeting. Any changes shall be notified by each alternate representative on a re-examined basis. However, the alternates are also given the opportunity to update information during the period they do not meet. For practical reasons, non-constant alternates will be listed in a separate part of the register. Data in the electronic register shall be deleted after the withdrawal of the representative concerned from the Stortinget. Representatives and alternates who have met for an earlier period should not re-fill the registration form, but only need to correct any changed information. Therefore, the information should not be deleted immediately after a representative has left the Stortinget but should be available in the electronic system for one period of grace thereafter. It is assumed that information on those who have left the Storing is not publicly available. On this basis, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, Section 60a proposes amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the register of the duties and financial interests of the depositors, Sections 1, 12 and 14. It is proposed that the amendments should enter into force on 1 April 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e171	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2810]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e189	In 2010, 210 people were killed in traffic in Norway. That's the lowest number since 1954, but still it's 210 too many. Traffic accidents are the hidden tragedy – it is the tragedy that comes in small drops the year through, and most often results in small notes in the newspapers. The zero vision, the desire for a future without hard damage and killing, is our leading star in road safety. And the question is, are we willing to take those decisions, to make those decisions, to do what is required of us, to make us credible when we talk about the zero vision? That's what this interpolation is really about. Traffic safety has been high on the political agenda for a while. Luckily, because it is a matter of life and death – and unfortunately, because there are tragic accidents that have caused this place on the agenda. The challenge of the debate that has led so far, I believe, is the one-sided focus on middle-parts. I would like to begin by stating that I believe the middle parts are important. It is an important road safety measure, but it is on high-traffic roads. Whether the limit should go at 8 000 cars a day, at 4,000, or by other criteria, I think we should discuss. But I don't think it would be possible or realistic to build middle parts on all the roads in Norway. That some parties create the impression that they mean it, they themselves defend or explain. Here is the main reason why I am promoting this interpellation: Traffic safety work is so much more than middle-parties, and I would like us to have a discussion about road safety that focuses on everything else we have to do – on all the political challenges we have, which really focus on whether our zero vision thinking is just an airlock, or whether we mean serious. There is a good road safety work today, both nationally, regionally and locally. A plan of 152 actions has been drawn up at national level, supported by the State Road Administration, Education Directorate, Health Directorate, Police and Security Traffic. Regionally, the county councils have their road safety committees and plans, and we know that many municipalities also have plans and active road safety work. The zero vision assumes that we're talking about a traffic system. A system in which the road, vehicle and road users have to play on a team and where everyone has to do their part of the job in order for this to work. We as politicians can be involved and influence this cooperation by helping to improve road users, better and safer vehicles and better and safer roads. We can also adopt measures that compensate for the failure of parts of the system to function optimally, or for the failure to take the measures we think are necessary at all times. I believe that in any case we cannot build roads which take into account that the road users are allowed to behave as they please. We must be able to assume, or at least apply measures that contribute to, that the road users generally hold the speed limits, use seat belts and drive unattended. But let me illustrate why the one-sided focus on pitfalls doesn't solve all the challenges. I choose to use the fatal accidents in my home state, Nord-Trøndelag, in 2010 to illustrate this. There were eleven killed in traffic in the North Trøndelag last year. Of these, four were meeting accidents, four were road accidents, an accident at a crossroads, a rollover and a pedestrian that was hit. If we had had pitfalls on all the roads in the North Trøndelag, we would still have at least seven of the eleven killed in the traffic. More than half of the meeting accidents also occurred on county roads where pitfalls are not high on the political agenda, due to low traffic. Therefore, it is important that we have a major focus on other measures as well. Many accidents are related to lack of driving ability, excessive speed or drunkenness. This means that we need to put in place measures to improve road users. For me, this is about measures from kindergarten to the fully trained driver. That is why I think we need to discuss the following: Is traffic training in kindergartens and in school good enough? In primary schools, we have included learning objectives in terms of traffic in curricula. But do we reach the learning goals? We need to know if we're reaching the learning goals. My knowledge of the theme suggests that it is very varied and very dependent on the individual teacher. We can't have it like that! We have to make sure that the students who leave primary school have the necessary knowledge of traffic and the necessary attitudes. Put on the head this is a matter of life and death. Is driver training good enough? What we can determine is that we have the world's best education for traffic instructors. We have chosen that traffic teachers trained in Norway should be trained in higher education, with a strong emphasis on pedagogy and road safety. No other Nordic country has gone that far. But what about driver training? Do we have a driver training that takes more account of the fact that it should be as cheap as possible instead of being as optimal as possible? We have a driver training that is equal to everyone, regardless of how we are as people. When I talk to the traffic teacher training professionals at the Nord-Trøndelag High School, I get the following feedback on what can improve driver training: reintroduce mandatory theoretical knowledge courses get to more quantitious training rates on individualised driver training Now there is an evaluation of driver training, but it must be raised beyond any doubt that it can be improved, and I believe that it is urgent. Should we discuss the progressive extension of the right to drive? Should it be that when you receive a driving licence at the age of 18, you are only allowed to drive alone and during the day, and later you are granted the right to drive when it is dark and to carry passengers? In a newspaper lookup in the Address Paper a few days ago, I am recording that the UP head of the Trøndelag believes that we should introduce different age limits for driving licences for girls and boys. Recent research shows that there is a biological difference between the sexes — the girls are more mature than the boys — and that a differentiated age limit should therefore be introduced. We must at least dryly discuss this. The vehicle is also part of the traffic system. On the basis of the zero vision, I think we should at least discuss the following: When we know that young people are particularly at risk of accidents, how should we help to make cars for young people more roadworthy? Young people usually have the oldest cars – and they are the ones that are least roadworthy. I believe we need to consider significantly increasing the wreckage, at least as a time-limited measure, in order to replace the oldest cars, and especially the youth cars. Safety equipment is still coming in new cars. There are devices that prevent you from sleeping, which make it almost impossible to drive into the car in front of or in a vehicle that is in contact, and there are airbags for pedestrians, if you were to be unhappy to drive on a pedestrian, to mention something. The problem is that this equipment is relatively expensive and that we have a charging system that helps make it more expensive. Here we have to discuss whether such safety equipment should simply be exempted from charges. New technology is a key to giving us challenges in the future – political challenges. Alcolocks and speed barriers are technology that we have known for a while, but which we have not yet chosen to use as real instruments. When the contributing cause of half of the fatal accidents is speed, it goes without saying that using a immobiliser would have been a very effective tool. Alternatively, there is technology that can either tell your car what the speed limit is and help us keep the speed limit. This challenges the concept of freedom to many, and therefore it is a matter of political clarification. For me, this clarification is relatively simple. For me, it's not about me being a road user having the freedom to drive as I want to, but it's about the freedom that we all as road users should have to feel safe and secure when we're out of traffic. That is why I am positive that we are going to apply the new technology as soon as possible. Traffic safety is an area where there's a lot of vision, where we've all made up our opinions about what works or doesn't work, based on our own experience. What we forget is that road safety is also an area where we have a lot of research and therefore a lot of knowledge about what actually works. I believe that as politicians we are too little in our position to use the knowledge that exists. Speed is an area we know a lot about. We know that if you drive on a pedestrian, the pedestrian is likely to survive if the speed is not more than 30 km/h. Ergo should be a maximum speed limit of 30 km/h. We know that in the event of a meeting accident, the chance of survival is great if you don't drive faster than 70 km/h. Ergo should have a maximum speed limit of 70 km/h on all roads without middle parts. I am very pleased with the news we heard on the radio today – that the speed limit is now to be set down on the most trafficked and accident-prone routes where it is not yet built middle parts. But if we're going to take the zero vision seriously, we should have discussed if we're going to do this all the way. It's in the nature of the zero vision. If road safety were most important to us, this would have been a good discussion. But we know that it goes against other goals – with goals of prosperity. We know that it will work, but we know that it probably won't be popular among the voters. If we had reduced the speed limits from 50 to 30 km/h in densely populated areas and from 80 to 70 km/h where there are no middle parts, and everyone had followed the speed limits, 135 fewer people would be killed every year – 135 people. It's such a high number that we should at least cost to reflect on the possibility that these are measures we can take. We also know from research that relatively small changes in overall velocity give a huge impact. If the speed level is reduced by 5 pst, the number of fatalities is reduced by 20 pst, and if the speed level is reduced by 10 pst, the number of fatalities is reduced by 40 pst. When we know that the speed level in many places is well above what is the speed limit, we also know that bringing the speed down to the actual speed limit will work very well. That's why we're for multiple photo boxes, we're for average measurement between the photo boxes, so-called distance ATK, and we're for more police control. We have strengthened the UP – and I hope the Minister for Transport has a good dialogue with his colleague in the Ministry of Justice on how to get even more police controls in the future. Some batches help to create the impression that the road safety challenges are simple to solve. I believe that this is wrong. I believe it's about having more thoughts in my head at once. But my challenge to the Minister of Transport, in addition to the question I have asked, is: How will the Minister of Transport make it possible for us to take these difficult discussions politically, and what are we going to do to conclude and get started? Even though 210 is a historically low number, is it 210 too many, and are we willing to use the tools needed to move on?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e260	We can never build to the zero vision. It should be a big responsibility to get into a car. Those who are not aware of this responsibility shall not hold a driver card. The day we politicians aren't clear about this embassy, we've seen traffic security work decades back. Fewer deaths and heavy injuries are about efforts on a broad front: better and safer roads, but also measures against drivers – measures that increasingly prevent inappropriate drivers from moving on the road. As the interpellant points out, the number of fatalities in traffic in Norway is still decreasing. In 2010, we had 210 killers – the lowest number since 1954. From 1951 until 1970, the number of traffic fatalities grew steadily with increasing traffic volumes. This trend reversed after 1970. Since then, traffic has more than tripled, while the risk of death has been reduced by more than 85 pst. In 1970, more than 5,100 people were killed and badly injured, while last year, predestination figures show 883. It's positive that the number goes down. Yet, every life lost on the road is one too much. Zero vision: no accidents with fatal and severe road traffic damage should occur. This is the basis for the work on road safety. In order to approach this vision and ensure the quality of security work, it is decisively aware of risk conditions and causes of accidents. Research, analysis, distribution and action evaluations are therefore taken into account. The state road service has, among other things, for five years examine all road traffic fatalities by means of regional accident analysis teams. Information from this work has provided important knowledge and facts about what contributed to serious accidents. We will benefit from this in road safety work locally and centrally and in planning short-term and long-term measures. Occurrence analysis teams recommend measures aimed at road users, measures aimed at running gear, measures directed towards roads and organisational changes. In addition to focusing on the direct causes of an accident, we shall also focus on underlying causes in organisational, economic and social conditions. A broad and collective effort is needed from a range of actors. The State Road Service has developed its National Road Safety Action Plan 2010–2013 in cooperation with the police, Health Directorate, Education Directorate and Safety Traffic. The plan is a follow-up to the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 and is a comprehensive presentation of how the various national actors should participate in road safety work. The action plan comprises a total of 152 measures aimed at road, rail and road users. The plan highlights that the three major problems in road safety work are that many are running too fast, that many do not use seat belts, and that many are still running under the influence of drugs. All these problems need to be addressed in road safety work. The Transport Economic Institute has calculated that if all road users followed the laws and regulations of these areas, the number of fatalities could be reduced by about a quarter. 50 pst. The action plan for increased road safety has two approaches when it comes to measures directed at road users. One is action against accident types or groups of road users where there are particularly many people who are killed or seriously injured. The second is preventive work, especially for children and young people. Key to road users is training, information and control activities — often combined with other measures, such as: checks. Measures have been targeted primarily at traffic and driver training. In addition, specific measures will be targeted at young people. Control operations are an important part of the work against the individual types of accidents. For example, high speed is a contributing factor of about 50 pst. of all the deadlocks in Norway. The police shall therefore be directed against aggressive and dangerous traffic behaviour, with particular emphasis on high speed, run-off effects and lack of protective equipment. The government has increased police control, the number of controlled drivers and driving gear increased by more than 11 pst. from 2009 to 2010. Extensive automatic traffic control is one of the most effective measures. Sampling distances show a significant reduction in the risk of accidents. We have given green light for distance automatic traffic control on eleven new sections this year and within three years green light for up to 40 sections. It is the state road authority that makes the final decision, and they do it with local authorities. The parties who accept this accept a great responsibility. We want a stricter and fairer dot load system. The system works dissatisfying today. It's too random who's being registered. We tighten the system, so that those who are taken get more dots, and those with driver cards on the test get double load. The state road service has been subject to speed limits on specially unclosed routes. They now set the speed limit from 80 km to 70 km at 420 km. There is a targeted action aimed at unclosed distances. This is temporary until one gets middle measures or other measures in place. The Lavang valley is one example where we first set down the speed limits and then also clear the road. Drugs other than alcohol are a growing problem in traffic. The risk of exclusion increases dramatically. A new device, known as the 'fastest' device, will significantly simplify the removal of a traffic-affected driver. In this way, we are intensifying efforts on national and county roads in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. For the national road network, the framework for the four-year period has increased by about 50 pst. compared to the framework for the period 2006-2009. The initiative also represents a significant increase in targeted road safety investments. Example of this is the establishment of mid-driving or reinforced mid-driving markings, measures aimed at exit hatches and immediate measures following road safety inspection or deadlocks. Maintenance privileges also have increased. More money gives more way. New roads are safer. We've opened 70 miles with a new road. We build on average twice as many kilometers of four-field road as the government before us. The work on preventing meeting accidents has gained new topicality after, for example, The tragic accident in Troms. The government has asked the state road authority to create its own action plan to prevent such accidents. We also want to know if there is a change in the direction lines for the use of pitfalls. Temporary works should be able to be set up where the emergency conditions warrant it, even if the annual traffic is less than 8 000 cars. Measures to prevent loopholes should also be given priority, and in connection with this, a specific focus is placed on the improvement of side terrain and the setup of rails. Driving gear measures I would like to return to my next post, because important measures are now also being taken. Alkolock is another keyword. Finally, let me say that the causes are composed, and therefore the measures must be composed. We don't have to fool ourselves and the motorists into thinking that we can build ourselves for the zero vision. There's still some people who seem to mean it. Less killed and hard injured require tough grip. There is no human right to have a driver's card. Incorrect drivers should be removed from our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e304	The Minister of Transport concluded a good answer about the following: we cannot build ourselves out of traffic accidents. We can't build ourselves into the zero vision. That's really the whole reason I picked up this interpellation, so we can focus on all of the other measures that we actually have to implement, and that we have to discuss. We have historically low numbers of casualties in traffic. We've already established that. When we measure it in relation to the number of inhabitants, the statistics show that other comparable countries have had an even more positive development than us. Sweden is particularly prominent in this respect, and rightly so. Sweden is in front of us when it comes to building middle parts. But that's not what has caused the positive developments that have occurred in Sweden in recent years. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, the positive development they have had, especially in the past, perhaps in the last two years, is due to the fact that they have reduced speed limits. That is why I repeat that I am pleased with the speed limit reduction that will come as a temporary measure of the 420 km of road accident-free road with no middle parts, which the Minister for Transport has just briefed on. But I also repeat that we have to take the discussion if we take the zero vision seriously. And if we take the zero vision seriously, we actually believe that road safety is more important than feasibility. Then we have to discuss whether we are willing to reduce the speed limit from 80 to 70 km/h on almost all the roads where it is possible to have a meeting accident. Because that's the nucleus of the zero vision. We have to apply new technology. It challenges the concept of freedom. We need to focus more on the fact that the new technology helps us become good drivers, good road users. But this new technology can lead us to have the same discussion in the future that we now have about, for example. data storage Directive. Because there are privacy challenges with the new technology. That is why this is an important political debate. That is why this is a debate that we must take and which we must take quite quickly, I think. If we look at the accident figures from the Nord-Trøndelag, as I pointed out, it's like four of the fatal accidents in the North-Trøndelag last year are the result of road accidents. This means that the clearance of lateral terrain is at least as important roadside road safety measures as the construction of pitfalls. At least it is an important measure in the districts. In addition, it is actually as simple as setting up traffic lights and road lights a very important road safety measure. We can do a lot of spaces for a relatively cheap money. But the question finally becomes: are we willing to take the difficult political decisions that the zero vision actually requires us to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e315	Let me thank the representative Susanne Bratli for the interpellation that gives Stortinget the opportunity to discuss this important field on a wide front. Let me also remind you of the broad work that is needed and that includes far more than those behind the important road safety plan that we are now working on, for example. Norway's Freight Car Association. Their members have, on their own initiative, put barriers to speed in many cars. They tell us about experience that means they use less fuel, and so they save money, they contribute to a better environment, they reduce the noise, and they have less stress in everyday life. I now have the possibility to stretch under driving measures, i.e. controls, as an important part of road safety, roadside inspections of heavy and light driving equipment and running and sleeping time controls. There is also an important potential to increase safety within active IPS solutions in vehicles. Here you can enter a warning at too high speed, due to the short distance from the front of the vehicle, an uncontrolled change of lanes, e.g.: edge and centre line alerts, collision warning system, etc. Some of these may distract the driver. So now the state road service has a closer explanation of this. Then to Sweden and the experience there with speed. It has been sub-communicated in the Norwegian debate and is important to underline it again. It's also important for us to take on board when the State Road Service has now reduced the speed limit from 80 to 70 on particularly unclosed routes. They set the speed limits at 420 km, and they estimate 100 km down from 90 to 80. In Sweden, they have also tried alcolocks, a measure with documented good effect. The state road authority is now actively working to ensure that there is a requirement for alcolocks for, among other things. vehicles used for the transport of schools and in vehicles which the public disposes of. The government is considering a proposal where alcolock can be used as an alternative to the withdrawal of driving rights, proposed under criminal law as part of the already existing drug addiction program.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e326	Although the number of fatalities in traffic has fallen in recent years, this is an area where we will always be impatient and try to find solutions that bring us closer to the zero vision. I can promise that for us in the Workers' Party, nothing is more important in the field of transport than road safety. In order to approach the zero vision further, it is important to raise your eyes and have a broad approach to what can reduce the number of serious road accidents. There is not a single answer to how one can reduce the number of serious accidents in traffic. Research shows us that there are often several reasons, but that a not insignificant factor is driver behaviour. In particular, high speed and/or intoxication are the cause of very many serious traffic accidents, and when the accident occurs, we also see a clear link between the lack of safety belt use and the damage. We in the Workers' Party will continue to be a driver of safer roads, but we also have to be honest and say that road safety is not something that can only build itself out of. In order to achieve popular goals, some unpopular tools sometimes have to be used. Therefore, we are pleased with the increased use of photoboxes and average measurements. The reduced speed limit has also been and is important in some places. The discussion on alcohol and similar measures is important, not least driver training and other possible effective prevention measures are important. An even tougher dot load regime can also be the way to go. We need this discussion, but not on the Premise of the Advance Party and, in part, the Right Premise, which is life-saving for unpopular action. When we know that high speed is one of the main causes of serious traffic accidents, it is irresponsible and populistic to go against average measurements. It gets extra horrified when the same two batches go in to increase the speed limits in some places. It may not be so surprising when it comes to the Progress Party, which only a few years ago would remove the UP, but that the Right is trying to copy the populism of the Advance Party, is disappointing. When we know how dangerous the combination of rushing and driving is, it is also not particularly trusting when some in the Progress Party are proposing to sell alcohol at gas stations. I fear that the Party of Advancement and, to a large extent, the righting of populism in this area, where the focus is almost exclusively on road standards, helps to legitimize irresponsible driving behaviour. I hope I'm not right, but I fear it. Finally, I would like to thank the inter-pellant and hope that, in the future, we can have a balanced debate on road safety, one of which focuses on the instruments that can reduce the number of people seriously injured and killed in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e339	Usually I like to thank the interpellant when you come up with good interpellations, and this is an important interpellation. But I think it's a little special when the opposition has made a joint proposal where we challenge the position to agree to do something about road safety, which is not just about building roads, but which is actually about a lot more – and a proposal from the Progress Party went the same, namely to do something about road safety – that it is clearly much more important to stand in this room and tell what one intends to do than actually to do it and to be with and create a common understanding of what we're going to do. First of all, the government boasts about what you've done and that you've granted twice as much as the previous government to the four-field highway. I don't think it's that much to brag about. In 1962 a motorway plan was adopted to build 785 km of highway by 1980. We are far away from it today, and we will be far away from it if this national transport plan is followed up, and this government is allowed to continue after the 2013 elections, which I really hope will never happen. Motorway thus reduces the number of fatal accidents by 80-90 pst. There is no other measure that reduces more if you are still going to be able to drive at a certain speed. Then I register that both the interpellant and the state councils are very concerned with the speed limits in Sweden. In fact, I think you should be honest and relate to the whole truth. Because yes, it is true that Sweden has reduced the speed limit on some sections. But they have also set the speed limit on some sections, as the Norwegian State Road Service has also proposed, but which have been stopped by the former Central Party Minister of Transport, and I note that today’s Minister of Transport will not be involved either. And yes, the Progress Party is willing to take action that works. But it may be that you have a slightly different starting point in relation to what actions really work and really apply. I feel that all the government parties are talking about is all the measures to be taken against the driver, but I have little experience of talking about the other measures, which are also important. I registered that the interpellant said there was something about the charging system. Yes, think if we had halved the charges on new cars! Then we could replace many old, bad cars that should have been scrapped a long time ago, and in which many of the young people are driving around. Then something really would have been done to reduce the number of accidents on the road network. But these are measures that this government will not be involved in, because you want to get rid of the drivers and that people won't drive a car, and then it's better that they drive bad cars instead of driving good and new cars. And yes, the Progress Party has made proposals for action that works, and we will continue to make proposals for action that works. It's about building more highways, which reduces the number of accidents by 80-90 pst., it's about building middle parts, which reduces by 60-70 pst., it's about clearing up the side areas, it's about going through driver training – we've suggested that in Stortinget – and it's about knocking down on runaway drivers. Of course, the Advancement Party agrees with that, it should only be a few! It is about initiating information measures and targeting the risk groups. We have made many proposals on this, and we will continue to make such proposals. It may be about looking at some of the measures that work, for example: 18 plus in Kristiansand, which is a good measure. Perhaps we should have more traffic safety halls established, as it turns out to be effective against the risk groups. There are many possibilities, but unfortunately, when there are others who are making proposals here in this Chamber, they are being voted down and ridiculed as bad proposals. These are proposals that work in relation to road safety, if you really believe that it is road safety that it is important to do something about it. So I want to challenge both the Council of State and the interpellant: start looking at the proposals, not just thinking that there are proposals from a political party that you stand far away from. By actually going into the proposals and seeing what the proposals are about, we may be able to do a lot to reduce the number of people who are seriously injured and killed in traffic, with measures that are both about doing something on the road, which are about doing something with the driver, and which are about doing something about the incredibly bad car park we have. So I challenge both the Council of State and the interpellant to read suggestions better, so you'll see that it's not just about doing something with middle-parts, but it's actually about totality, and it's about doing something in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e352	There's a good curfew in this room to thank for raising important interpellations, and I'll do that too, because it's a very important topic that the interpellant addresses today. But when it is done, I have to say that I am left with a little wonder after the posts of the government parties. So here one is accused of populism because one allows one to mean the same thing that the government meant when adopting the national transport plan, their own plan. That's what the right has done in the field, and that's what you're now being accused of being a populist. I'm going to help both the interpellant and the Council of State a little bit with statistics, because you've now become very concerned that you're at the lowest number since 1954. Yes, that's right, it's joyous, and it's good action that's taken over many years. But the big decrease in recent years, where we went from approx. 300 killed and down to a level of 230, 220, 217, and now 210, we got it from 2001 to 2005, just so it's said. One-sided focus on middle-parts, says the interpellant, and they would like to have a discussion about road safety work on a much wider front. Is that what you want? After all, we have been opposed by both the Minister of Transport and the Prime Minister in this Chamber to making a binding action plan for us as politicians. Of course, it's not that the Right will focus solely on middle-parts, but we want to focus on doing what we promised in the NTP, because we know that building middle-parts prevents meeting accidents, and so we have 100 deaths in tragic meeting accidents every year. And then we've allowed ourselves to formulate another zero vision, that's a zero vision in terms of the tragic third of the accidents that happen because of the nature of the road, or the lack of condition – that's what we're concerned about. Then you try to create the impression that someone is worse at this work than others. I really hope that I hear wrong when I hear such claims, because what you don't take in then, is that the height of the fall for those who make the claims is quite high, and you take on a great deal of responsibility for the promises you make yourself. In that context, I would like to remind you of promises, because it is now time for this assembly to grant money. In 2011, the government has set aside 545 million. kr for road safety work. In 2010 it was granted 682.2 million. kr. In the NTP, the same government promised that this level would be 860 million. kr in both of these years. That means we're already 500 million. NOK in the amount due. Then I can't see this in any other way than that it's a diversion. Bratli said it almost also; she wanted to get focus away from the violent with middle parties and lack of fulfillment that we in the opposition have allowed us to focus on. So it is that the Right has not been against the focus on speed limits and compliance with these, but we actually believe that the tragic meeting accidents are not prevented by one slowing down. If there comes a trailer with the trailer across a turn, then the accident is a fact, if you never drive that much in 70 km/h. And this can be avoided with the midpoints. The size has two representative proposals for improving road safety at its table right now. These include: a proposal for a binding action plan on a broad front, just as the interpellant asks. So the interpellant and her party have the full opportunity to support this when we now start dealing with it in the committee. But I am not optimistic, as both the Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister have opposed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e369	I also want to send a thank you to the interpellant, and I feel that this button is a little bit more whole-hearted than that from the Right and the Advance Party. It is because I think that the debate we have had has not shown the wholeness within this area. And I feel that it's exactly what's the initiative of the interpellant, to show the sanity in this area. Some of the most dangerous things we do are when we see ourselves in the car. I don't think we're conscious of that. That's why this has first and foremost to do with the grips. When we look at accident statistics, we see that we haven't reached, not least, the young men in this field. When comparing Norway’s figures with those from other countries — for example, the United Kingdom, Ireland and the United Kingdom. Sweden – we see that young men in Norway are overrepresented. We may not be able to compare this completely, but I think the smoking law is an example of a measure that we also started with an unpopular measure that has led to a change in attitude. Today there are completely different attitudes in continuing school to smoking than when the Minister of Transport was the Minister of Social Affairs. So in a relatively short time, there's been a big shift in hold. It shows that it is possible if a person dares to intervene. I would like to comment on some of the interpellant's comments. The most important thing is that speed helps kill. That is why I am pleased with what I heard from the Minister of Transport today, that she wants to slow down. I also want to point out – precisely what the interpellant has to do – the difference is linked to a speed limit of 80 km/h and a speed limit of 70 km/h. It could be the difference between life being lost. But I want to challenge a little when it comes to what is considered a pitfall, because I want to say that there is an area we have taken relatively new lessons from. Going back and looking at the debate on road safety in the 1990s was not a hindrance to the debate. It is a relatively new and important tool, and I think we should ask ourselves the question: have we had enough pressure to build enough pitfalls? An example is this: when the committee was in South Africa, we drove on the new European road, a European road built six to seven years ago, which was completed in 2007 and built without a midway network. I believe that if we had seen the work going on today, we would never have built that kind of European road, without a mid pull. The paradox is that a relatively new road is not good enough when it comes to traffic security, compared to what would be the standard today. So there is a way to make the order in 2001 – 10 years back in time. The road was finished in 2007, yet in many ways it is already out of date when it comes to the security perspective. So the interpellant also picks up what goes on the wreckage. I'm very happy about that. I believe that one of the reasons why there is a difference in traffic death in Sweden and Norway is due, among other things, to: youth cars to do. I am also pleased with what is being drawn up about schooling and how to get better education. I would like to think that the Council of State had responded more clearly to what one thinks in relation to schooling and training. Then there's one area that's not taken up, and that's the question of independent roadside supervision. Yes, we have a roadside surveillance in place. I still mean that it should be independent of the Road Directorate. It will give greater legitimacy, and that question is also home in this debate. So finally, I'll just comment on this with alcohol locks. There are now recent measures. But also in that area, Sweden is going ahead of us and is faster out than what Norway is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e388	The inter-pelling mechanism is important in the national Parliament of the country. All themes are important; this is also one. What is regrettable is that this issue actually needs focus, that road safety is an urgent problem in Norway. It is regrettable that Norway still has a high number of fatalities in traffic, and that developments in Norway are not in any way similar to those seen in our neighbouring country — far from being as favourable as it has been in Sweden, Denmark and Finland — where one has been able to significantly reduce, in particular, the number of fatal accidents. There are now two proposals for representatives for consideration in the Transport Committee, so all the parties are now given a rich opportunity to give this topic a wide range of treatment, and I hope to have open ears and open eyes to recordings from all parties in this regard. What we're talking about is road safety, car, road, behaviour and control – and last but not least, not only is the control of all the drivers and those who use the road, but also the control and supervision of those who own the road and those who are responsible for driving the road. It is these issues that we need to look at when we are going to have a comprehensive and comprehensive approach to road safety issues. Safe cars are important in road safety work. We still have an older car park in Norway than many other countries have. A new car is a safer car. In Norway it is still expensive to buy a new car. The government has high revenues, especially from the one-off charge on new cars. The tax increases as the weight increases, and with increased safety, heavier cars often come. This is how the State’s levy on new cars acts as a State levy on road safety. Those who continue this system are, in fact, very responsible. Safe roads are also important in road safety work. Better roads can reduce the number of fatal accidents on Norwegian roads, and middle parts must be built at a much higher rate, because just middle parts save lives. Not only is it the case, as mentioned by previous speakers, that we have relatively new roads, even European roads, which are built without middle parts, but we have recently also adopted the construction of a new European road without mid-tracks. Those who do, in fact, assume a great responsibility. With regard to claims and allegations that we in the Progress Party simplify the issue when we are concerned about this, I would like to remind you of what the National Association for Traffic Damage said when it was focused on the construction of new European roads without a mid-distance network. They call it a ‘traffic political scandal that new European road sections will be built in Norway without middle-parties’, and they are joined by those working within the organisation No to Front Collisions. We should look at Sweden, which, without oil money, has managed to build much more motorway than Norway, and far more road with pitfalls. If the zero vision is to move from talk to practice, it actually needs to be a new policy – a policy that provides safe cars, safe roads and good drivers. But it starts and ends with the road. A safe road prevents accidents and mitigates the consequences if the accident is first out. Therefore, work on the zero vision of our authorities starts and ends more than with the users and the drivers – mainly with the state, and thus with the government, which has the oil money, and where the money continues to flow into the box. Of course, it is important for users to act responsibly, but it becomes disclaimer when the government overfocusses on the driving lists and at the same time continues today's policy with a high charge on safe cars and road construction at slow speed without middle parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e407	I would first like to thank the interpellant. These are important issues she raises — and important debates, not least, that we need to address on this serious issue: road safety. It also seems that the opposition is a bit confused that we have this debate and ask why we are not on proposals that they are promoting and why we do not want obligatory plans. Well, we have road safety plans – the government works to improve road safety every day. The middle parts are built – that’s important – and we have to build more of it. It's working on a dot load system. We're working on expanding these mean velocity measurements, which we know works. It is about stopping the downfall on the roads and then resume the maintenance run. A new paved road surface is important road safety work. We cannot fail to point out that we all have a responsibility. When the Progress Party is against average speed measurements, is too high a speed limit, has proposed to shut down the UP and has proposals for alcohol sales at petrol stations, one cannot fail to point it out. We know that average speed measurements are an effective tool. We know that higher speed increases the risk of being killed in traffic, so you can't stop pointing it out. If there's something we're going to do even better, it's targeting the effort more than what we're doing today. We know that almost half of those who die on the roads do not use a seat belt. But this only represents 5 pst. by those travelling on the roads, i.e. a small group – a risk group. We need to focus our efforts more on them. We know that young men, younger than me, are overrepresented in death statistics. This concerns measures aimed at young drivers. It's about alcohol locks, but maybe also about the possibility of testing for other drugs on the roads, which we know is a big problem. Then it refers to Sweden and that the Swedes have done so much more. Yes, the Swedes have built much more highways, but they have largely built two-plus-one motorways. Maybe we'll do more of that in Norway? I'm not a stranger either because we're resuming the discussion about what kind of pitfall we're going to build. In Sweden, they have not been able to demonstrate negative effects by using vayer trucks, for example: I think we can also re-open the interpellant, which the interpellant had in mind. We know that it worked when it came to getting scraped some older cars the last time you increased it. So I think it's important that no one in this room is trying to make themselves look better than anyone else. We all have a big responsibility. The working party is impatient to do more, but the responsibility must also be taken of those who say no with open eyes to measures that we know work, such as average speed measurements and lowering speed limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e423	I know that it is normal to give praise to the interpellant to address an important matter, and road safety is important. But you can start to wonder what this government puts in the word road safety when we know that approx. a billion of the budget has not been used for different road projects. There are funds that should and should have been used for both midpoints, motorways and other repairs that would provide safer roads than what we have. It is nothing new that this government with its supporters here in the house does not contribute anything much more than sand. The consequence is that repairs and security measures are postponed and trained, and the money is transferred to the following year. It is not exactly an effective enhancement of road safety. I could often wish that, when the Storting discusses road safety, we first reviewed what are the real, objective criteria for which measures provide increased road safety and what measures do not in an objective perspective. We learn that today's government is a hot follower of average-speed measurements and believes that this is an excellent measure to promote road safety. I'm not saying that it doesn't have a function. But is it so that this is the big and most important tool in the toolbox, as many claim, I think there is essentially a lack of objectivity here. Sweden has removed average speed measurements based on the fact that it does not significantly promote road safety. It is believed that this can only be appropriate in terms of speeds of 80 km/h or more. We know that on many distances average speed measurements capture speed sinners in a number of 1 pst. Somewhere else we're talking about pro-miles. On the other hand, if we choose to deal with objective criteria based on experience from both our own country, Sweden and other countries, they suggest that the centre and/or motorway prevent front-end collisions with approx. 80 pst. Then I have to ask: why in the name of heaven do we not build more middle parts and highways when all objective research documents the road safety benefits? Every time we have new projects for treatment here in the house, we experience today's red-red representatives vote for proposals on both the middle parts and the four-field highway. It is enough to refer to the Alta-west project and to More and Romesdal, where the red-red do not want measures to promote road safety. And I'm pretty sure they'll vote down our proposal on the four-field highway on the route Løding–Vikan in Bodø, despite the fact that it's estimated that the ÅDT will increase to well beyond 8 000 passersby. Here we have the opportunity to do something to improve road safety, but political will is required. I guess I shouldn't expect too many politicians without political vision. Instead of building roads for future requirements and regulations, we build roads according to yesterday's requirements. Today's news of reducing speed limits says much more about the road owner's responsibility than it says about the training of our drivers at the driving schools. No one in this government is talking about the responsibilities of the Weighers and the State, and it's sad. If we had come as far in Norway as Sweden in the development of motorways, middle parts and, in general, better standards on roads and safety zones, we would have had approx. 68 fewer people killed in traffic in Norway compared to Sweden, if we use the population. Despite that, Sweden has 20 km/h higher average speed than we have in Norway. Maybe the easiest thing for today's government would be to set the speed limit to zero, because then it'll actually be able to satisfy the zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e443	I want to start by giving tribute to the representative Susanne Bratli to take up this interview, which is very important to achieve the zero vision that we all agree on. She presented some suggestions and pointed out some things that have an impact on the zero vision. One of the things I have great sympathy and sense of is the training, which Susanne Bratli mentioned – all the way from kindergarten, through school and to traffic training, and in particular what is personalised. In conversation with the traffic training in Trøndelag, I have the exact same feeling that it has a very big impact; it is a lot about attitudes. But things don't work out there. I am very disappointed when the interpellant points out that the mass – as she calls it – from the opposition on middle parts is incalculable. I will strongly reject that. We are well aware that, in many cases, middle-parties will avert the disastrous meeting accidents. Well, we agree that middle-parts don't solve all the problems – because you probably can't have middle-parts on all the roads across Norway. We very much agree on that. But some accidents could have been avoided by midpoints, which you can't avoid by lowering the speed limit. And then I come to the second point: I think it's a little sad that the Council of State responds to the interpellation by slowing down the speed of 420 kilometers of Norwegian roads. It's almost the same distance as Oslo-Trondheim – a stretch where we're going to drive and drive again in 70 km/h. I am absolutely convinced that a reduction in the speed limit in such a way will in some cases increase the accidents, because it would be in a car and drive for 70 km/h over such a long distance, as in some cases it will be here – although there are so-called vulnerable distances to be chosen – that you will become unnoticeable because there is no challenge, as well. It will again lead to some starting to pass, and that's when you get the dangerous situations; they've been sitting and irritating themselves for a long time over this, and then they take the chance of passing by. Of course, through the training, we're going to make sure that as little as possible of that happen, but we know that it's going to happen, and it's going to happen just because of that. So choosing a simple solution by slowing down the speed that way we think is very unfortunate. Like this with distance-wise speed controls: I myself have been exposed to them, fortunately without being taken. But there are some distances on which there were usually not many accidents, which have been chosen for this, and I think it's very sad that it's done. The car park has been mentioned. Of course, it is important that we have a safe car park, so the government would like to do even more in terms of providing tax relief on safety equipment for cars. I think that is a very fine proposal, which the government should follow up. However, it is the very nature of the road that is very often the cause of accidents — therefore a road effort, by fulfilling the national transport plan. The plan is ambitious and good, but we have not succeeded in following it up in relation to the investments that have been made or the budget proposals that have been made. So we hope that next year's budget will be a boost, in particular for road safety measures, which are essentially based on what is listed in the national transport plan. So I want to give tribute to the initiative of Susanne Bratli, but I reject the criticism that the opposition has received with regard to the so-called mass of middles. We will continue to do that, and then we hope that the Council of State will take the other things and follow up according to the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e464	I want to start by thanking the participants for the debate. Unfortunately, I can't thank you for a debate that became the way I could imagine it would be. I'm probably above average interested in road safety, and I'm probably above average impatient. That is why I think it is a good idea to use every opportunity to put this topic on the agenda. But there was still a debate mostly about roads and mostly about middle-parties. I haven't accused either the opposition or anyone else of having asked about middle parts – you can't find that in my post again. I have also not criticized anyone for being impatient to build middle parts. My point was that I would like us to have a debate on the other things that work in road safety, so that we could have the broad debate on road safety and on what actually works – in addition to middle-parties. That's how it turned out, unfortunately, to a small extent. There was a debate in which I felt that we once again went into the trenches and attached to each other attitudes that we might not have. Because I just have to say that I think everyone has an honest and sincere desire that we should improve road safety, and that we should reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. So we may well have a slightly different input into it because of our political positions and perhaps a slightly different emphasis on what measures are to be taken and when they are to be put in place. But I will never stand on this pulpit and accuse some of my political opponents of having any other goal than to reduce the number of deaths and injuries in traffic, because I don't think there are any who have. Then I just demand the same thing back, that this mutual respect has to be here, because if we're going to get to this discussion and the decisions that have to be made, we actually have to believe that we're all working towards the same goal. But I think it's going to be difficult in between when, for example. The Progress Party is high and dark and goes on to the pulpit and rallies over what, at least from my point of view, is an honest attempt at a constructive debate on measures other than both midwives and on the road that research actually shows. We have not yet taken that debate. It was almost none of the speakers in the debate who came up with the challenges I tried to give, the measures that we know work in terms of zero vision, and bringing down the accidents. It's not just about speed, it's not just about better driver training, although both of these measures are also important. It's a lot about even better mind-building work, and it's about how we're going to apply the new technology as it's right there in front of us, and that can actually directly help us get a good step closer to zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e478	Sometimes it's almost surrealistic to sit in the staging room. This is what happens when some people make it as if the government doesn't have a road safety plan. Is it true, after all the focus that has been on this plan, on these 152 actions, which we follow in turn and order? Is it possible, President, to present it as if we don't have a plan? Is it possible, President, to spend a lot of time and forces to present it so to the Norwegian people that one invites to a broad settlement because the government doesn't have a plan? Let me then make a statement, so that everyone that this hasn't gone up for, now is aware of it: we actually have a traffic security plan. He's not drawn out of loose air, he's based on extensive research. That's the way it is. Motorways are traffic-proof, and we build twice as many kilometres of motorways as the previous government – but we have a long way to go. We have high dimensions when it comes to motorways. But we have to take seriously that we have, and will have, a name in this country that consists of many other types of roads, with lower traffic figures than motorways. And that's also why the solution when it comes to road safety has to be something other than midpoints. Sweden has a different name, but Sweden has also slowed down on 15 000 km of road, from 90 km/h to 80 km/h – not some sections with reduced speed, as the representative Hoksrud claimed. For traffic training: Here is a very good result with driver card training directly into the continuing school, and we're going to have more of that category in place. Then it's almost unlikely that one can conduct a debate today, where there are some people who claim that they're busy with traffic security, but who still don't mention speed-related relationships at all. Because it's actually that speed is a contributing cause of closer to 50 pst. by the unclosed — the deadlocks — in 2009. I would like to believe in the longest possible that everyone is concerned about road safety, fewer people killed and less seriously injured, but then we must actually have laws and regulations and controls that take care of that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e491	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e507	As of 1 January 2010, the county councils have been responsible for 17 000 km of road which was formerly the state's roads. The Progress Party considered and believes that the reform of the administration is unfortunate. The roads, according to the view of the Progress Party, will not be better when the responsibility is divided into 19 counties. According to the point of view of the Progress Party, the roads do not get better when they are transferred as they were – evenly above of poor quality. The interpellation is not a rematch on the administrative reform, but a call for evaluation one year after the reform has been introduced. In 2009, when the debate on the administrative reform took place, the Road Traffic Information Council and other traffic organisations said: ‘The risk of Norwegian roads getting worse is growing.’ In April 2009, the government’s recipe for the transfer of these 17 000 km of road with some heavily paved roads to county municipalities came. While the government stated that road reform would ‘enhancing the national government at regional level and providing more coordinated and efficient management’, it aroused the despair of a number of road and transport organisations. I assume that for consumers, the overriding main objective of road policy is good and safe roads for the transport of people and goods. I assume that consumers are interested in ‘enhanced national government at regional level’, but are very interested in the fact that the roads are actually getting better – fast. In the 2011 government budget, even though the reform is: ‘Management reform is a major reform in the road sector’ — I repeat: a major reform — ‘with the need for continued adaptation of county and state road authorities’ organisations and management systems. Transferring responsibility for the essentials of other national roads and other national road transport services has led to increased responsibility for national road transport, road safety, public transport, climate, local noise and air pollution targets, etc. be reached.’» The county authorities are thus responsible for achieving national targets. It was just now in the previous interpellation that we talked about road safety. It is therefore an area covered and affected by the administrative reform. Several central transport organisations, on behalf of users, made the following reform requirements: Firstly, before they are transferred, roads have to be rehabilitated. It was rejected by the government. Secondly, minimum quality standards must be introduced. It has not been met by the government. Thirdly, it is necessary to establish independent roadside supervision in order to ensure a common road standard. That has not been met either. On the contrary, the government has continued the system for the State Road Administration to oversee its own business. The railway system is supervised by its own railway authority, and the Air Safety Authority oversees Avinor and the airlines, while in road traffic – as we dealt with in the previous interpellation – last year it was 210 that died there – the road network itself should be allowed to oversee its own operations. The fourth requirement was that there should be money, enough money with it. It's transferred money, but not enough. The government has therefore established a 2 billion loan arrangement. kr so that county councils can borrow to rust up bad roads they have been transferred from the country. Failure to meet these security requirements for the reform, lack of decisions and unclear willingness to evaluate the reform makes the situation uncertain and unclear. It is worrying and should worry and engage the responsible State Council. There is not a commuting association here that can hunt at the state council, but there are a number of user organisations and users that give clear concerns to the listener. I assume that the government and the Council of State, as well as the objective of ‘enhancing national governance at regional level and providing more coordinated and effective management’, also have an overall national objective of good roads, better roads and safe roads. Through the budgetary hearings of the Transport Committee on the State Budget for 2011, the Committee was made aware of the status after just under a year of a clear budgetary framework for year 2 of the reform. NAF, the Norwegian Automobile Association, was one of the organisations that referred to the administrative reform, and after their own investigations they found that it had been correctly spent more in 2010 than in 2009 on other national roads, but that only four counties have used the Storting grant as foreseen. According to NAF, it would have been used over 700 million. kr more on the road in 2010 if the Stortninget had been followed. These funds now finance other parts of the operation of the counties. During the October 2010 budget consultation, the Norwegian Freight Car Association again required national leadership for county roads and county roads in order to ensure uniform standards and predictable conditions. NLF will have a minimum standard of, for example: winter operations, summer operations and maintenance. Let me quote the head of the Transport Committee in More and Romesdal – from November last year – who thought the county had got the cat in the bag when they took over the roads from the state: ‘We have 700 million kroner in the aftermath of maintenance and 700 million kroner in the aftermath of the ferry and the ferry parking lot. We have been forced to take over something that is very poor by equals." [[...]] The Progress Party believes that there are many signs that the way has not improved with the Management Reform so far. The Progress Party believes that there are many unexplained issues – pointed out at the time of implementation – which at the beginning of year 2 of the reform have not been clarified. The Progress Party is concerned about the lack of a signal of willingness to evaluate. The Progress Party believes that evaluation is necessary because the reform has a major impact on a poor but very important road network. Does anything happen regarding the introduction of minimum standards on the national and county road network? In the view of the Progress Party, we must and should have such a minimum standard, not only in some areas, but in all the important areas covered by the description of a good roadway, good road maintenance and good road operation. In the view of the Progress Party, the county councils must be required to report both budgetary conditions and qualitative indicators within the county road network of KOSTRA, i.e. this reporting system for all county and municipal services. This is important to get in place as quickly as possible and with as specific bindings and leads as possible. Such measures should be included in an evaluation case together with the status of maintenance and economics related to further maintenance escalation. Let me add that when we get such leads as reporting related to the quality of the road, it should apply to all roads, including the roads that the state owns. Let me also use a few words on the ferry section. It is important to bear in mind that a very large number of national roads are also part of the administrative reform and that the transfer of funds to ferries was a so-called flat transfer of the budget level in 2009. As regards resources for improving the quality of the ferry service, the Ministry of Transport’s main response has been that this needs to be ensured through the use of tenders. It is interesting that the government is so sure that the use of tenders will give more ferry for the money. More important for ferry users on the road network is that the quality of capacity, opening time and frequency is actually improved. There must be something more money than the government has left behind the ferry operation. It is therefore also important to include ferries in a necessary evaluation of the administrative reform. The size and users should be informed of the impact on the quality of the implementation of the administrative reform on roads. The challenge summarised in the interpellation is therefore: How will the Council evaluate the administrative reform and its impact on the road standard in Norway and provide feedback to the Stortinget on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e563	Administrative reform was implemented from 1 January 2010. Reform has so far been successful. The government has transferred the tools and tasks that allow you to see different tasks and developments in a holistic context in the state. Closeness to citizens, municipalities and businesses gives good opportunities for dialogue and constructive solutions. Transfer from so-called 'other' national highways with the corresponding ferry connection represented the largest change. The purpose of the transport reform was to facilitate more holistic development of the road network in the counties. It was a premise that the roads should be transferred with the standard they had at the time of takeover, with corresponding rights and obligations. The result is that we have got more money – the county councils have taken responsibility! The size underlined the value of a good standard on the new county road network, an acceptable level of road investment and a sound road safety policy in all counties. It will still be a state responsibility to enable the county councils to build, operate and maintain an effective and secure name. The government will be busy ensuring that road users and businesses have their road standards across the different levels of administration, regardless of ownership of the road network. The county councils received from 2010 the funds previously used by the state for the tasks. In addition to passing on the level of prior state permits to the roads that were taken over, the county councils were strengthened by 1 billion. kr in free income, broken down between the counties according to the same model as for the investment funds. Thus, the financial framework for the county councils of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs was raised by 6.9 billion. kr in connection with the takeover of transport operations. This framework was passed on in 2011. Of the 2010 fallout, it was estimated that 2.7 billion. kr related to operation and maintenance and well €1.8 billion. In the case of investment, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of the measures taken to comply with this Decision and of the measures taken to comply with this Decision. In the frame is also included in the lower edge of SEK 1.4 billion. NOK for the purchase of ferry services in the county. The government also introduced an annual interest compensation scheme in the Ministry of Transport's budget with an investment framework of 2 billion. kr in 2010. The same investment framework was followed up in the 2011 budget. The other licenses are price-adjusted and passed on. The national transport plan for 2010–2019 states that the government is investing significantly in racial protection. A total of 10 billion. kr has been used for racial protection measures during the ten-year period – half on the national roads and half on the county road network. In addition to the promises, it is appropriate for the country to provide some national guides in the form of legislation to cover road safety, business transport, requirements for the most so-called seamless name, environmentally friendly transport, etc. The extent and content must be assessed on the basis of the needs of road users and industry and national targets for road safety and other national targets, including: National transport plan and National Road Safety Action Plan. At the same time, it is important that the scope and content of the guided tours be assessed against the concerns of municipal freedom of action. For Oslo, this municipality applies. Regulation on the collection, quality assurance and dissemination of data relating to public roads, traffic, etc., the so-called Road Data Regulation, was adopted on 3 December 2010. It is important that management data and information to road owners, contractors, rescue services, road users and others are as monotonous as possible and regardless of whether it is a national road or a county road – or in Oslo municipal road. The Road Data Code shall ensure that the State Road Service is able to carry out common tasks across road classes, including national systems, e.g. Road traffic centres and national road database. It is important that this with the existing vocational system can function as intended, i.e. that the necessary data of good quality, in standardised formats, are provided to and can be received from these systems in a timely manner. The purpose of the regulation is that these data should contribute to the safe, efficient, sustainable and environmentally friendly closure of road traffic. Good evidence for the development, operation and maintenance of public roads is crucial. The economic consequences of this are compensated through the framework. Proposals for tunnel safety regulations for the county road network have been being heard and are being dealt with in the department. The Breeding Safety Regulation, which, in addition to bridges, deals with ferries and related structures, is under preparation in the Road Directorate. In addition to these regulations, work has been carried out on national road safety guides, standard requirements for new installations and repairs, standard requirements for operation and maintenance, etc. A final report has been sent on a hearing by the Directorate of Roads. This is a work that happens step by step. Step 1 is an overarching assessment of the need for national leadership in relation to county freedom of action as well as a draft resolution. Concrete proposals for specifications are set out in step 2. This means that it will still take some time for all aspects of the administrative reform to be implemented. The transfer of responsibility for ‘other’ national roads and ‘other’ national road ferry services from the State to the county municipalities was well prohibited. The transfer of responsibility was carried out without any particular problem for the road users, the state or the county municipalities. The fact that the government chose to keep the common highway management system for the national and county roads, and that the majority of people joined this, had clear advantages, I believe, by the transfer itself and not least in the year that has passed. A signal from the county councils suggests that the county councils are on the road with road development and that cooperation with the state road authorities is working well. I am familiar with an opinion of 18 February 2011 from the County Council leaders that they want the Road Administration of the Municipalities. I'm left with a more nuanced image than this statement. There is a point of improvement in the cooperation between the State Road Administration and the counties. We need to focus on that in the future. Under the direction of the Directorate of Roads, work has been started to map the maintenance run on the national road network, tunnels and bridges on the county road network. The problems associated with methodology are equally relevant, regardless of who is the owner. The results are described in the next national transport plan. Let me include a study carried out last year by MEF, the Federation of Machine Entrepreneurs, in connection with the implementation of the administrative reform. All the county councils and the municipality of Oslo were asked. The county councils showed enthusiasm and ambition to invest and maintain more roads than the state had done. A year later, MEF has done a new question-search and received positive feedback. 15 municipalities and the municipality of Oslo report that they are in a route. With one exception, the municipalities and the municipalities of Oslo benefit fully from the interest compensation scheme. 16 counties have added more people working on transport in 2010, but no one commits to doing so without the help of the State Road Administration. Twelve counties had unused means of road construction at the end of 2010, but the funds will be spent mainly on the projects they have been granted. The fact that the funds are not used has reason to say that planning and design have not come far enough. KS has commissioned the research institute IRIS to investigate the effects of the administrative reform. This includes looking at how the intentions for the transfer of political power have been fulfilled, and on national leadership and standards tying up regional priorities without adding sufficient economic resources to the counties. KS also wants to address the consequences of the introduction of operating contracts and evaluate the cooperation between the county councils and the state road system. This work will be completed in December 2012. Of course, it will take some time before the reform takes place in the county councils, and before one can say anything for sure about the effects of the reform in the longer term, among other things. on the impact on road standards. The Ministry will continue to follow through the reporting arrangements and dialogue areas established between the government and the local government sector on how responsibility for transport is exercised. In the view of the Department, the following reports and dialogues will provide us with an adequate basis for this. regular information for Stortinget. In the long term, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will assess the need for an evaluation of the whole of the administrative reform. I see it as natural that the reform in the field of transport is involved in such an overall assessment, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e624	This was about as expected. There is no active desire here to have an active evaluation process from the State itself on one of the perhaps largest reforms or changes in road policy in recent years. It seems that the Progress Party is both regrettable and sceptical. At the same time, it is a little strange that you almost boast that KS should take care of this. It is no wonder that those who are closer to the county councils, who have thus received these poorly maintained roads, have a self-interest in seeing how this has worked out. However, the fact that this is to be a satisfactory evaluation of such a major reform is thin and in no way satisfactory, with the eyes of the Progress Party. I record that some investigations have been carried out – and in part also carried out. Road users have to record that, in very many cases, poorly maintained roads that were transferred appear to be poorer after the reform has been introduced. The road system itself, as far as I have understood it, has also pointed out that there is an acute risk of accelerating decay in today's maintenance situation. It is a little in contrast to that government and not least this Council of States has said in the past: it seems that we are going to be able to stop the fallout on Norwegian roads in 2011. It's probably a hope and a claim that there's reason to doubt, unfortunately. We want to know if it has become better for the money. I heard the council say that we have got more money. In any case, some money has been transferred in connection with the reform, and that should be lacking. But the question is whether we've got a better way for the money. The questions are in line. State councils will provide the Stortinget with maintenance status measurements on the county road network before the reform and the following years – 2010 and 2011 measured against e.g. 2009? Will there be a minimum standard on how the road network will look in the counties? Is there something we can hope to get in place soon, so that's an objective goal to measure by? Will the Council of State measure the quality of the 78 national highways for which the counties have assumed responsibility and ensure that we are reported? There are some of the many questions that, in the view of the Progress Party, it is necessary to answer after the launch of this major reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e637	Following the administrative reform, the county councils have been owned by four times the size of the state. It goes without saying that we have to be very careful to have a very active dialogue with the county councils on what was positive – and positive – with the implementation of the administrative reform, and whether these are aspects that we need to address better than what has been done. Let me mention the work on the new national transport plan. It's kind of special, but we're going to be one year and three months inside the national transport plan, which is actually going to go over ten years. At the same time, we are preparing a new big message to be submitted in 2013. We're now focusing, of course, on getting all of the projects that we promised in the first four-year period, while adding a longer run. We've recently had a meeting with all the county councils. It was very well received, there was a good dialogue on how the situation is also when it relates to them, and on what priorities they have in the work to be done with the new national transport plan. We've done an organisational grip. We have the county councils represented directly into the governance group that the etats now have in their preconstruction so far. We have the councillor in Telemark directly inside. We're going to have a new meeting with the same actors, plus business and many others, in February 2012, when the etats have submitted their proposals after phase 2. It is such that the county councils on their behalf also have road normals to follow. I think it's important to help strengthen the maintenance both on the highways and on the county road network. When it comes to the highways, I was standing last year saying that we have a aftermath, we have a aftermath, we have a lag on maintenance. Sortevik is sure to think about what it was like when his party was a supporting party to the previous government – the retarded wax. It's important for me to get numbers that show that we're stopping the lag. That's where the State Road Service uses the term ‘after today's calculation models’, and we have that number and expect us to stop the aftermath. When it comes to ferries, I just have to say that there is now a group of our own that follows up what is called contracts by offer in order to ensure that we there act neatly also from the state and from the county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e650	I would not be surprised if, in this debate, we had different views on how the administrative reform has worked so far, on the basis of our view of the county councils, and on the basis of our confidence in the county councils and state policies. Then I have to go straight away and say that I am probably the county's best friend. I have a great sense of the county council as a level of government. The task of the county council as a regional development authority is no one else, as I see it now, that can take over and do in the same way that the county councils can do today. Therefore, the content of the administrative reform – although I could have thought that the administrative reform had become much more than it was – was actually important for the county to further develop its role as a regional development operator. Because it's regional you see the challenges. It is regional that you know what action you need to take to solve them, and it is regional that you get the interaction between the actors. In addition to what happened on the roadside, it was important for the economic development of the counties that the county councils were given joint ownership in Innovation Norway. It was important for the economic development of the counties that we set up regional research funds, in which the county councils are involved and govern and decide how to use regional research funds. Then it is also important that you actually have more direct control with more of the roads in county municipalities than you had before. I agree with the Minister for Transport who says that the administrative reform so far seems to be successful in the road sector, but also in the other areas. I also see, on the basis of a relatively large number of county councils that I know well, that we are getting a more comprehensive development of the former highways that are now new county roads. The studies referred to by the Minister for Transport also show the same. The county councils are doing their job. We get more money, and I think we can show that the roads are getting better. That is at least what the studies indicate. So the county councils do their job. It's nothing new that county councils are weed owners. We have to remember that. We had old county roads, and in many counties the old county roads are still longer in kilometers than the new county roads. So you have experience in being a weigher. The distinction between the old highways and the old highways was unnatural in many ways. As a former County Council for Transport, I can sign that it was not always so easy to see the whole. But now you see the whole of this new county road network. Prior to that, the county councils had a decisive influence on the order of priority on the old highways. The distribution of money between the counties was decided in Stortinget through the treatment of the transport budget. Now it is the way that the Stortinget transfers the money to the county municipalities as free resources, and the county municipalities give direct priority. As far as road safety is concerned, county councils already had a great deal of responsibility in the past. According to Section 40(a) of the Road Traffic Act, county councils were responsible for coordinating road safety measures in their own county, recommending road safety measures and implementing road safety measures. I believe that when one got more direct responsibility for several of the roads, it will only strengthen regional road safety work. What we should not take too lightly, and which is very important in this context, is the regional interaction with the regional partnership. All counties have an up-to-date regional partnership that cooperates with industry, with the social partners, with educational institutions, with research institutions on: What is best for our state? What do we have to do to achieve the goals we set? In fact, in many contexts, what is happening on the road network is important. It is then important that the county councils have direct responsibility. So far at least I have to say, for my part, that the result of the administrative reform, although it has been relatively short, seems to be very good. I have to say that I have great confidence that the county councils and state politicians will give priority to the future. All possible experience suggests that it's going to be the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e669	I must honestly admit that I am probably not a friend of the county council as good as the previous speaker. I had hoped, before I entered the Stortinget, that I could be able to turn off the light and put down the county council, because there were not many tasks that were put back in place – until one was able to cough up the county councils being allowed to take responsibility for the worst road network we had, which we just sent over with bill and without check. I hear the Council of State say that the reform has so far been successful, the purpose was more comprehensive planning and expansion in the counties, and it is a state responsibility to ensure the county council's ability to solve its tasks. At least when it comes to the last, I think that the vast majority of state politicians experience this as a black player game, where the state has sent them a bill and a problem that the state won't deal with itself – and that's very fine – and then you have to hold on to something like the horse biting because it doesn't get high, and it's about to die. That's the same thing in this area as well. I think it's special that the Council of State says this has been such a great success, when NAF has done a survey that shows that there are 700 million. kr unused which would have been used to build the road, repair the road or maintain the road – they are therefore unused. And then the Council of State believes it's a success. I don't understand it's a success. When the Council of State is so concerned about how successful this has been, I want to take a few examples. The representative of Sortevik was in the morgue and Romesdal, which received 700 million. kr in problems with berths and ferry solutions. And just to go back to my own county: for many years, the state road authority has had a plan for repairing tunnels, but has not chosen to follow it up, but the bill is sent to the county council. So that means they have to spend an entire year's budget on the road just to refurbish tunnels that the state should have rusted up a long time ago. That's reality out there. These are just two examples. But I'm convinced that we can go to all 19 states and find the exact same examples. The state road service has now gone through the tunnels to look at the quality and the state of these tunnels, and it is these tunnels that are generally the worst. And then you boast that you've let them get the same money that you got when it was the state that was responsible, and that's got another billion. With the huge decay and the huge need that is out there, this becomes something like peanuts and small buttons and glossy images that state politicians are going to play with. So I totally disagree with the representative Bratli, who thought that there were now many opportunities to have fun as a state politician. I don't think there are many state politicians who think this is fun, with the huge needs and challenges they face. I hope that the Council of State takes seriously what NAF has come up with, which shows that you are not using the money. What we also experience is that money that should have been used to build roads or to maintain roads must be used by county councils for public transport. So you move money from road to public transport. That's why I think it's a bad solution that you've only given this as a free means that the county councils can dispose of just as they like. Then the result is more bad and not more good. This is a bit like what I said to the head of the NHO in my home state, who operates hotels in Telemark. His problem is that today almost no buses will drive there. I said that I don't think they want to go there when the county councils get the responsibility, because then you have to give priority between the roads you have. Then it is likely that the country will choose to give priority to the roads on which it is most traffic and which have to be taken, because directives and other things from the state that are not provided with the means to follow up are imposed. So unfortunately, I'm probably afraid that this is a reform that will ensure that people in many parts of the districts will experience a much worse road offer, unlike a better one, which the government has tried to present would be the result of this reform. But I really hope that the Council of State will follow closely, and that she will take over the investigations carried out by both the NAF and by others, which prove that money on the road is not being spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e691	I want to thank the interpellant for this interpellation. I also want to thank him for a very comprehensive and thorough presentation of what is the message, and many of whom are concerned about this matter. I am not as impressed by the response of the Council of State, although I was probably a little excited when in the previous case she was a little bit involved and thought it was a surrealistic experience to sit in the staging room. When she got a really serious and good question from a representative, I think she might be able to answer the questions he asked. But I guess that's the kind of answer we get from the press councils that don't meet their own plans. There is no doubt that the Right has opposed this so-called administrative reform, and we are still. It is the reform of which it became something, really, this great, great regional reform, which was supposed to regionalize the whole of regional Norway. It ended up transferring 18 000 km of bad roads and ferries to the county municipalities, and then there was a bit of ferniss within Innovation Norway and a little bit of trifling – that's all. Because one of our all, the biggest organizations -- I'm talking about NAF -- has put the spotlight on the fact that there's actually no target in the transfers given to the county councils, the interpellant and more with good reason are asking about the 700 million. kr which could have been used by road. We still have not received an answer to that, but the Council of State is going to have another post, so I expect her to answer there. What NAF pointed out was that the counties used the loan scheme to meet the framework that was actually directly transferable and comparable to the previous year to the same types of roads. This means that a lot of the framework transfer has gone for other purposes, because of course county municipalities are under pressure on the economy. A little bit about the principle of transferring roads, we also have to take. There we have been dealing with the Road Act every year, which says that the roads should not be able to be transferred without being in good condition. I was recently at an exciting seminar where a former Labour Party Council, Matz Sandman, made his experience known. He had also been a county councillor, and they had transferred roads to a municipality in the county, and was told by the state that this could not be done without repair under the Road Act § 7. Then he's still councillor when he gets transferred I don't know how many kilometers to Buskerud, but then the government just chooses to create a new paragraph in the Road Code, which makes it possible to do this anyway. So this is what a state and government can do, which I'm saying is not concerned with the county council, which they put forward as being so good at solving problems. It is to stick under the chair not to draw out the many, many frustrations that emerge in all contexts in this field from the county rapporteurs, state politicians and others. I want to raise a point that has not been raised by others, and that concerns county toll projects, where the state still regulates in detail the conditions for this. This also applies to toll projects on state roads, where county municipalities are still the important player to enable the many major road projects promoted by the government to be realised. Here's a misunderstanding that the government should answer for. Finally, the right has opposed this reform. We're still opposed to it, and we want to reset it if we get in position to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e718	I am pleased that Arne Sortevik saw the focus on this reform, which the Progress Party strongly warns against when she was treated in Stortinget. What we are now seeing is that the former highways are being downgraded, both in terms of investment and maintenance. This poses a great risk to those who are going to school, those who are going to work, because they must use narrow, poor and racially dangerous ways. In my view, this will result in centralization, which I thought the Center Party would not stand behind. The fact that the country has not introduced reductions in the number of road users in the state is totally unacceptable, especially in order to reduce its expenditure. Another factor is that since the State Road Service does not reduce staffing, it is very difficult for county authorities to recruit skilled labour to manage their new tasks in the road sector. New regulations have also been adopted before several areas of operation. Among other things, there are new requirements for tunnels, leading to enormous extra costs for the county. These requirements were not adopted until after the adoption of the administrative reform, and were not part of the funding, and therefore this is not compensated by the state. All states have large transit routes, for which they are now responsible, without the reform taking over a good enough coordination between them. This can lead to high-quality transit routes, which in turn lead to high maintenance costs for professional carriers and bus companies, and for most people. Evaluation is essential. The state must go in and look at the consequences of the reform of the transit roads, which have now been state roads. Let me say something special to Sogn and Fjordane. Several reports have been prepared to show the value creation in the West. We have nothing to be ashamed of. The reports show that in Sogn and Fjordane there is enormous value creation, not least on the coast. If these jobs are still to be safe and secure, better infrastructure is needed, not least better roads. Option to close or move currently active items in this window. Another point I want to mention is that the current government is pursuing an active centralisation policy of important services. Looking at the centralisation that is currently taking place in the health sector, especially good infrastructure is required if life is not to be lost. Both the previous and this winter have shown with all clarity how necessary it is that the supply for maintenance contains a requirement specification that requires the suppliers to have good quality equipment available. So it is equally important that the Road Service, which is to check that the maintenance is carried out in accordance with the offer, is out and performing the control job, and not sitting in its office and looking through the fingers that the maintenance is not carried out in accordance with the offer and contract. In my view, we've seen too much of the last two winters. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Transport to put extra emphasis on this in the evaluation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e739	First, I thank you for an important interpellation. The Progress Party is opposed to the waste of taxpayers' money. That is exactly why we only want two levels of government: state and municipality. The counties have played their part a long time ago. For the Progress Party, the municipalities are the very foundations of Norwegian democracy. This is where the population has the most direct influence possible. On 6 October 2010, in connection with the 2011 State Budget, we asked a budgetary question as follows: ‘How has the maintenance run for the county roads developed every year from 2005 to 2009 and so far in 2010?’ This should have been a simple question to answer. So here we asked about the very simple facts related to the maintenance kit, and one would think that Norwegian road authorities had such an overview. From the Ministry of Transport we received the following answer: ‘The road authorities of the Member States have not carried out any analysis of the maintenance seat run on the county road network since 2004. The Ministry of Transport therefore has no reason to answer the question.’ This response was reasonably alarming. Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo slaughtered the government's and former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete's efforts in the operation and maintenance of the road network in a report published 10 days after the election. One of the main challenges was that the then Minister for Transport did not have reliable information about the state of the road network. It would have been exciting to know if the current Council of State has received or is interested in obtaining such information. What kind of freedom do state policies actually have to implement autonomous policies? In fact, state policies are largely bound by state priorities. If the county road network becomes too poor, state politicians may feel compelled to introduce tolls before the poor safety of the county road network is completely compromised. At the same time, in such a situation, the government may blame the states when it becomes tolls – and that may well have been the point. In the Progress Party's proposal for a national transport plan, we committed 90 billion. kr more than the government for upgrading the county road network for the period 2010 to 2019. Traffic trends and dues on the road network make this absolutely necessary. Some money for the maintenance of such bad roads is also traffic safety that will benefit us all. Only there should be a good reason to carry out an evaluation, as the interpellant here talks about, so that we can see whether this reform is totally flawed or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e763	Thank you for the little debate that has taken place. The answers are still missing. I would like to remind you of what the previous Minister for Transport, Navarsete, said for approx. two years ago at the NRC when she commented on the reform: many would say that much worse than today should be done to get it. Unfortunately, things have gotten worse. At least the county road network is getting worse. Two years after this statement by the last Minister of Transport, the Minister of Transport we now have, has the ambition that she will stop the fall of Norwegian highways from 2011. What about the new big county road network? What's the ambition there? Or is it that now it's out of sight and then out of mind? Is it the case that the problems have been exported to another authority, and then it gets the road network to live its own life? But it is important to look at how the county road network develops after the reform has started. The signals are not good, and the Progress Party believes that an evaluation is necessary. Measurement is done. You know, the state road service is doing measurements. They have measured the status in 2010 on the proportion of bad roads – i.e. bad or very bad with regard to the tyre condition, it alone. We want more criteria, but here the State Road Service has measured by tyre state: Western: 60 pst. of the county road network is poor. North Norway: 58 pst. of the road network is poor. South: 52 pst. Is bad. East: 52 p.m. Is bad. Middle Norway: A little better – just 44 pst. Is bad. The whole of Norway has a status on the county road network in 2010 where 53 pst. the county road network is characterised by the road authority, the state road authority, as being poor or very poor. Road users and the Progress Party will have a recording of the state of the roads after the major reform has been introduced. We want national leadership, and we want independent supervision to ensure that the continuation of the administrative reform provides better roads, until a new government with a different political colour can terminate the scheme and bring the majority of the road network back to the state. It is good governance to evaluate major reforms. It is a pity, therefore, that there seems to be no sign of this from the government and from the Minister of Transport to go into this very matter. You can wait and let things go wrong, or you can take a quick reading and a quick consultation and correct errors and shortcomings before the reform gets in the wrong direction. The government should do that, but obviously it won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e791	I was a local and regional minister at the time of the administrative reform. As a result, I also know very well what was the main reason why the county councils were strengthened as regional development actors. I also know well which laws had to be changed. There is an obvious misunderstanding when the representative Sortevik here makes it possible for the government to change the law by means of an additional contact when it comes to the transfer of the road network. The law in force applied to the transfer of individual sections of the road. So here we also had to have the formalities in place. The main point was a reform of democracy, i.e. to allow the inhabitants of a region to be directly affected in a different way from one in the past to the local populace, i.e. regional populace, and to participate in a dialogue on what should be given priority in each state. When I say that the administrative reform in my view is so successful, it is not least from the messages that have come into the contact we have in our own contact conferences and in other ways with the county municipalities. When it concerns road maintenance, and insofar as initial investment is concerned, I think we just have to be honest and some say that here it had a maintenance run that is not of a new date. Here there is a need for new road construction, and so the government also has so far paid 50 pst. in an increased budget. There is an extreme need for racial protection. Not everyone was equally involved in it. So the counties now get 0.5 billion. kr per year, and that is great joy over. Then I have to stress that I am busy having very special attention to the county councils in the future. I have both said that and written to the Stortinget at several times. That's what I think is absolutely necessary, precisely because we see that there is a need for more renewal and maintenance on the national road network, and we know that that's the same thing on the county road network. I have said quite clearly that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will evaluate an evaluation of the whole of the regional reform, but I must say that I think it is a bit striking to demand it before the first year's reckoning – i.e. 2010 – is led by the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e804	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e818	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e827	As the rapporteur, I would like to begin by stressing the broad consensus there is on the importance of critical evaluation in order to increase efficiency and to strengthen the achievement of results in international development cooperation. In the Christian People's Party, we have for decades highlighted control and evaluation as an indispensable part of development cooperation from the Norwegian side. It is the results of the fight against poverty that count, and then more and better assistance is inseparably linked. Document No. The 8th Progress Party proposal provides both the opportunity to take stock and to identify new measures to improve the budgetary, reporting and evaluation systems of assistance provided by Norway to the United Nations system. Together with other donor countries, Norway participates in the governing bodies that define the activities plans and budgets of the United Nations organisations. Our money contributions have an impact. Yes, it allows Norway to impose requirements and to provide guidance, not only for the use of Norwegian financial contributions, but for its overall operations. This is the best strategy for improving the quality and efficiency of UN assistance. Consequently, the majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, emphasises that, in order to ensure effective UN assistance, it is important that the specific requirements of individual countries do not prevent the overall management of funds. Let me briefly comment on the main features of the proposals presented in the document. In proposal I, ‘the government is asked to draw up continuous evaluations of UN sub-organisations in terms of efficiency and performance’. There is a broad consensus on the intention of this proposal, but the Norwegian authorities have long worked for increased effectiveness, evaluation and achievement of the UN target. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, consider that the challenge is therefore not whether to have an ongoing assessment but how to further develop and systematise this evaluation work. With these clarifications, the majority of the Committee supports proposal I. Proposal II calls on the ‘government to make Norway’s contribution to the UN dependent on the progress and results of the reform work of the organisation’. The Committee as a whole, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, considers that the wording of the proposal is not acceptable. In fact, due to the agreed allocation keys and scales, Norway cannot decide on the amount of Norwegian contributions to the regular budget of the United Nations in addition to seeking to influence the size of the total budget. Instead, the majority of the Committee calls on the government to state more clearly in the future what the Norwegian authorities consider about the relevance, effectiveness and willingness to reform of each UN body and the budgetary implications the government recommends for Norway’s voluntary contribution in the light of such an evaluation. It is a dangerous path to better prioritisation and influence. The third proposal states that ‘The government asks the Government to wind up the multi-annual indicative commitment system to the UN sub-organisations’. The majority of the Committee disagrees with this proposal, for the multiannual commitment mechanism is in fact a step forward which has contributed to greater predictability for the UN organisations in their budgeting and planning. Proposal IV implies that ‘The Government is asked to provide a report on the progress of the reform work of the United Nations Department of Peace Operations’. There is a broad consensus on the intention of this proposal, but it is already being followed up. The Committee has received a thorough presentation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on both received and forthcoming progress reports. The parties to the government and the Christian People's Party therefore do not support the proposal. However, an overall committee considers that an additional separate Norwegian reporting should be considered as appropriate. Only the Progress Party supports proposal V, where ‘The Government asks the Government to base the principle of zero nominal growth in the UN budgets on the annual/two-year budgetary procedures of the organisation’. The reason why the proposal is thus proposed is that a principle of zero nominal growth in the regular United Nations budget would break Norway’s ambitions for further development of the United Nations. It would simply weaken the UN. With regard to proposal VI, a unanimous committee shares the view that an increasing number of mandates result in increasing fragmentation and duplication in the work of the UN. It's unfortunate. However, all parties, except the Advance Party, consider that the proposal has been formulated in such a way that it should not be accepted. The description of the problem needs to be nuanced, and Norway’s strategy needs to be more refined than this proposal expresses. However, an overall committee believes that Norway’s position should rather be to continue its work on the elimination of out-of-date, irrelevant or duplicate mandates, thereby achieving savings. At the same time, Norway needs to be open to several approaches in the reform process and actively contribute to giving the UN financial strength in its efforts to solve new and important tasks for the world community. The UN is an important pillar of Norwegian foreign policy, and Norway is an important contributor to many of the UN organisations and engagements. I believe, for my part, that making strong and clear demands on the management of these organisations and making clear assumptions for Norwegian contributions will be the best way to influence efficiency. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that reforms are important that streamline and strengthen the UN's ability to promote peace and development, and for the same reason we reject proposals that will in practice undermine the United Nations' ability to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e855	The rapporteur has gone through the content of the matter that we have to deal with today, but I want to make some general considerations and link a few comments to some of the proposals. At first, I think it is important to stress that there is a broad consensus in the United Nations on the importance of the UN and that it is essential that the organisation works well. The UN is important to Norway, not least because it is a very central channel for our assistance. It is important that the money we allocate is spent in a sensible way, and that the United Nations has good budgetary, reporting and evaluation systems. And we need to focus on efficiency and achievement. More proposals are being made here today which are about making more demands on the United Nations and that we should have a different budgetary strategy than we have today. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that it is not appropriate for individual countries to impose a lot of specific requirements because, among other things: will lead to even more bureaucracy and more complexity in administration. Norway participates in a number of governing bodies that are just planning and budgeting. It is central to the influence and control of the follow-up of our financial contributions, but also to provide guidance for the organisation's overall activities. So over to a couple of the suggestions. The Progress Party proposes that the Storting should ask the Government to ‘underpin the principle of zero nominal growth in the UN budgets in the annual/two-year budgetary procedures of the organisation’. I strongly disagree with that proposal. Such a principle will in practice lead to a reduction in the activities of the United Nations and the role of the United Nations, and, as it is written in the comments of the majority of the Committee, that we will have a static approach to the UN's tasks through the sementing of old tasks rather than a United Nations which is changing in line with new global tasks. The Progress Party also proposes that the Multi-Annual Indicative Commitment Scheme for UN Sub-Organisations be phased out. I also strongly disagree with that proposal. Multi-annual commitments contribute to greater predictability for the organisations and enable them to operate more efficiently and able to follow the long-term plans they have, and their priorities. For those of us who make multi-annual commitments too, we can then expect reform, results-based governance and more efficiency. With regard to the proposal from the Right and the Progressive Party concerning the reform work of the UN Department of Peace operations, and the wish that the government should present a report, I would like to make it clear that Norway has been a driver in relation to the reform processes that have gone on in recent years. The Council of State has also explained in the letter to the Committee the work that is being done, and I expect that he will also address it in his statement. Finally, I am concerned that we should have ongoing discussions on the UN challenges, both in terms of efficiency and results. My starting point is that Norway should contribute to strengthening the UN, not the opposite. Norway must be active in the reform process, and we must use the influence that we actually have, for the benefit of the development of the organisation. Finally, I would like to address the proposal made by the government parties in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e876	The representative Eva Kristin Hansen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e879	Norway is among the five largest contributors to the UN humanitarian activities, and among the top contributors to the UNDP. There are over 75,000 employees in the United Nations, and let me stress that many of these people are doing a great job. However, bureaucracy, corruption, lack of results, overlapping mandates, duplication of activities and secrecy are increasingly part of the challenges facing the UN. Recently, it was found that the United Nations Development Programme, UNDP, refuses transparency in documents that can reveal corruption and default in the Global Fund equivalent to several million dollars. As a significant contributor to UN activities, Norway should lead in reforming the UN. Instead, we see that this role has largely been taken over by our neighbouring countries and allies, among others. Sweden. The Minister for Development recognised in 2008 that: ‘Norway has been naive and our assistance has helped to make corruption possible in Africa’. The government's naivety vis-à-vis the United Nations is an active obstacle to the use of tax credits where they are most useful and we get the most development for the money – and often this is not in the UN organisations. The need to streamline and reform the UN is urgent. In the National Audit Office's annual report to Stortinget, we can read each year about the lack of coordination and effectiveness of the UN organisations. Norad’s 2009 performance report states that UN organisations are bureaucratic and have difficulties in delivering assistance effectively. Evaluation carried out that both Norwegian and Swedish U.D. show that many UN organisations have significant challenges in terms of efficiency, better coordination and the establishment of a performance-based organisational culture. What has been the Norwegian Government's response to these challenges? It can be described in two words: more money. Assistance to the UN has increased dramatically under the red-green government, which has granted more than 30 billion since 2005. kr to the UN. Independent researchers indicate that the proportion of assistance channelled through the UN has fallen in recent years, but despite this, the organisation’s massive bureaucracy has not been adapted. The Progress Party supported the merger of four UN agencies into the new women's initiative, the UN Women, among others. for reasons of efficiency. But when the budget of the new organization turns out to be over 3 billion. kr, twice as large as for all the former organisations together, this can hardly be called a step towards efficiency and reform. ‘UN reform’ has become a political mantra without content and meaning. It reminds me of the film 'Groundhog Day', where the main character wakes up every morning and has to experience the same day over and over again. And over and over again, we hear about UN reform, that now the red tape in the organization is to be streamlined, now the aid has to be streamlined, just to be equally disappointed the next day. The lack of progress in the mandate revision prevents the channelling of funds to where the need is greatest and prevents the effective use of existing resources in the organisation. At the end of 2010, the UN peacekeeping forces included more than 123 000 personnel. However, a number of corruption cases in recent years have revealed the need for a wide-ranging review of major reforms in the UN Department for Peace Operations. Last year, the Minister of Development of the NRC said that we have sometimes forgotten the critical dimension of our UN thinking. Norway should be critical of an organisation that receives billions of support each year from Norwegian taxpayers, and we should be critical, not only in words, but also in action. We must demand results. If we don't hold back funds or channel them through other organizations. The time when the UN was elevated to a sacred cow should now definitely be over. Finally, I would like to include our suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e910	The representative, Kari Storstrand, has taken up the suggestions she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e913	It was a very good speech made by the rapporteur. I have no problem joining everything that was said – therefore just a few brief comments from my side. We make major Norwegian contributions – important contributions – to the UN. For Norway, the UN is an exceptionally important beneficiary of assistance, but not least an important donor. It is an organisation which, unfortunately, is heavy and desperately needs reform, but which on the other hand is indispensable. Once again, our attitude has to be that we're a tough giver. We're making demands. We expect progress both in the reform process and in the UN meeting where Member States expect the organisation to use its time and resources. There is broad consensus on the evaluation. That's excellent. But I also expect that we will see concrete actions by the government after the debate. I expect the evaluation to be reviewed as critically as it is seen from the Swedish side – that the evaluation actually contributes to Norway also changing its resources internally in the UN between the UN organisations. It has an effect on the fact that organisations within the UN will fight more and more about the resources, and it may even focus on the duplication that exists, so that we can get clearer decision-making lines. In general, we know that evaluation means better assistance, increased success security and increased efficiency. So evaluation is all reason to go on with life and desire also in the case of the UN and UN organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e922	It is really quite rare in the Grand Duchy that there is so little need for a State Council to take the floor as in this debate, for here I can join almost everything that has been said in all speeches, except in the Progress Party. It was a good review of the rapporteur. The working party and the right posts also contained a lot of what I have on my heart. For example, forest cave Gitmark said: that the UN is an indispensable organisation, and a heavy-duty organisation. Both are indisputably correct. Without the UN, the world community would look much worse. We need the UN to give legitimacy. I'm thinking, for example. on the situation in Libya now, where you are dependent on the UN to give legitimacy to the actions you want to take. The UN is also one of the most important development actors on the ground around it. So the UN is absolutely indispensable. The UN is no better than what 200 countries together can agree on. The U.N. is a tongue-rooted man. There have been cases of money abuse and corruption. All of this is equal to right. There is only one answer to that, namely that Norway, as a small country dependent on the United Nations, which is setting the UN very high, is doing its utmost to improve the UN. There is no doubt whatsoever that Norway is an international driver of a UN reform. Prime Minister Stoltenberg led the panel that has made the biggest changes in the United Nations in recent years, that is to say to get one UN at country level. This has been very successful in many countries — not so successful everywhere — but overall it has been a great success to make the United Nations act as one organisation and not as a host of small ones in the countries on the ground. So Norway is a proponent. This does not mean that we cannot gain experience from what other countries have done. Sweden has been mentioned here. But I would just as much like to say that the United Kingdom has recently been the driver of necessary and correct reforms in the United Nations. It makes these countries very natural partners for Norway. We have a lot of the same ideas as Sweden and the United Kingdom. Although they have center-right governments and we have center-left government, there's in no way any obstacle to cooperating on good reforms in the United Nations system. I believe that this is exactly what applies to the UN, to non-governmental organisations, and to state aid, namely that it must focus on results. Results must be measurable or probable. That doesn't mean it's as easy to measure results in all areas. Of course, it is easier to measure how many school places or how many hospital clinics you can build. It is not that easy to measure the quality of education or the quality of health services. It can be even more difficult to measure, for example. the impact of the World Health Organisation on global health supply or the impact of the UN Environment Programme on policy at country level. But the fact that it's harder doesn't make it an ambition we're going to remove. Even when the UN has a normative role, and when the UN is trying to influence policies, the ambition is to measure whether this is effective. If it doesn't, we're trying to channel our funds into where it can have effect, and we're trying to influence and change structures that aren't good enough. Then there is agreement on a proposal that we should have a continuous assessment of the effectiveness of UN organisations. There I just want to say that in terms of the work on further developing the so-called profile sheets, a delegation has already been in Stockholm to gain a better understanding of the Swedish review of this. We have seen that they are very similar to Norway, but we will continue to improve cooperation with Sweden on that. This will be incorporated into the 2012 budget proposal. We are also active in the international network called MOPAN – a fine abbreviation. It is a network of 16 countries that conduct reviews of UN organisations. In 2011, Norway will be particularly responsible for assessing the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Other UN organisations will be assessed under the direction of others. The United Nations Agricultural Organisation is one of those to whom we have had significant critical comments and therefore has also reduced support. Let me say that some of the most exciting things that have happened internationally in the last year in this area is the review that the new government in the United Kingdom has done. They have made it unique that while they cut the appropriations in all other areas, they increase the appropriations for assistance and they maintain the appropriations for health. I think it's unparalleled in the history of the world that a government that cuts so much, not only leaves it to cut, but actually increases its international contribution – it's very interesting and positive – but, as part of it, it's also carried out a thorough review of both the countries and the various UN organizations, including the World Bank, the Global Fund, etc., and it's given the characters for them. Essentially, they have the same assessments as us, but of course we're going to study the British views and go into them more closely, and also, in contact with Mitchell, call for cooperation between Norway and the United Kingdom on how to use our overall impact force in the right direction in the United Nations system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e941	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e944	The Council of State says that Norway has been a driver of reform, and I think we agree with that. But where do the Council of State think we have got results, and where are the results missing? Where is the most required now to insert a pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e950	Where I think these are the most inconspicuous results, as I mentioned, one UN at country level – that is, when the UN enters a country, you don't go into 20 organisations, but you go into one whole under one leadership. So you can spend the money more effectively. We all agree that improving the effectiveness of assistance is very important, and coordination in a country. Finally, only two bodies can coordinate assistance in one country: it is the country's own authorities, and it is the United Nations. So this has been important. As for what is least successful, I still believe that the focus on results is a fundamental question. Too often, I still meet UN leaders who tell me about big processes, about their relationship with others – some of whom also argue about retaliation. They come to Oslo to tell us that another organisation is much worse; and we will support them instead – instead of coming and proving that what you do, delivers actual results out in Brazil's jungle, on the savannahs in Ethiopia, on the rice fields in Vietnam, or where it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e957	Like the Council of State, I have noticed the marked value of the British conservatively led government in prioritising growth in development cooperation, despite the fact that almost everything else has to be cut in absolute terms. In this way, you might say that while Roosevelt said: look at Norway, today we can say: Look at the United Kingdom. There is a message to the Council of State, but also to former members of government here in the Chamber, who are more concerned with cutting aid than with increasing assistance. But I have one question for the Council of State. This concerns the review carried out by the United Kingdom by multilateral organisations. Could the Council of State be any more specific as to how Norway will benefit from the very thorough review that I have had the opportunity to study, and how it can help to strengthen and help with the Norwegian policy mechanism?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e964	The first, of course, is to conduct a thorough study of the British material and see to what extent it corresponds to our experiences and our views. But I think so far you can say that essentially it does. There are many of the same thoughts that we've done. Then I see two main angles of attack for how we're going to make use of it. One is to contact those organisations that do not deliver, or deliver too badly, how we, through our board representation, dialogue with the management of these organisations, possibly with money outflows, can influence them to improve. The second thing would be to control the money more against the organizations that actually deliver. That's the way you control all the other areas, and that would be completely relevant in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e971	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e976	I would first like to say that we are well pleased with the way in which our proposals have been dealt with – very thoroughly in the letter of reply from the Council of State, and not least the Committee's consideration and the rapporteur's efforts in this area. That from our point of view we did not reach the point of view with our proposals, we are told that it is an improvement potential. But anyway, we feel that there's a better focus on goal achievement, result focus, in the UN now than it's been as long as I've been in at least. At the same time, we feel that the way the UN is referred to in this position, in budgetary documents, is partly wishful thinking. It's a little bit like talking about the UN as we imagine it should be, not necessarily the way it is. There are few other countries that have the opinion of the United Nations that Norway has. It's not about not wanting the UN well, but it's about having a realistic relationship with the UN, that we want to get the UN into the path where we get results. Another point is that Norwegian aid organisations experience – and in my opinion, quite correctly – that they are subject to strict requirements. Every penny of the money they spend is followed. And so it should be. They deliver more and more on results and goals. The same thinking must also apply to the UN, and these aid organisations have seen, to a small extent, the increase in the budget experienced by the UN organisations. I think we can agree on that. And then I think we're going to be very confident that we're measuring these results in a proper way. Then it's the World Bank, where the government went in and took proper action in relation to the achievement of results and so specifically that the World Bank has to deliver in order for us to continue in the magnitude we want, or have done in the past, in relation to the World Bank. But they didn't do the same to the UN organisations in parallel. You cut it out. So somehow it seems that the United Nations system has been over-protected, and we want equal treatment for the various aid channels. Now we know that the UN is much more than assistance, but what we want to achieve is that we think equally about efficiency, and treat all the dollars that we put into development policy work, in an equivalent and effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e985	State Council Solheim. The President reminds us that state councils can now also draw themselves electronically, and it will be registered very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e988	Thank you for that! I'll probably learn it in a few years. I just want to finish by confirming that I agree with what Morten Højlund says at the end here. I think it is right that we have made tougher demands over time and have had more discussion also in the Storting on bilateral assistance, and that we have made tougher demands on the voluntary organizations than we have on the United Nations system. We have to change that. There's two things that make this a little bit difficult, and I just mention them here. Obviously, a United Nations organization is very large. When we try to assess the effectiveness of the United Nations Development Programme and ask our embassies to assess it in their countries, it comes naturally in ten countries that report that they are very effective in, for example, the United Nations. Tanzania, Mozambique and Ghana, and then it comes from Ethiopia, Rwanda and Botswana that they are not effective there. This could be done, for example, by: is due to management at country level in these countries. No organization is better than its leaders. So it's not always easy to evaluate that kind of big organization. All of this is a management responsibility. If things don't work in a country because the UN has bad leaders in the country, it's of course central government's job to replace them. So there's a little bit of a nuance in the fact that the UN organizations are large and therefore not always as easy to measure. They are not as easy to measure because they have a duality in them: they have to deliver things on the ground, educational places or health stations, and normatively they also have to set standards for the world, which are not as easy to measure, like, for example. the effectiveness of the Church Emergency Aid Programme in South Sudan. But anyway, none of these things can take us away from the ambition that this should be measured – every penny there should be followed exactly as thoroughly as any other dollar we use.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e997	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2810]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1013	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1022	The Committee has examined Document No. 8:160 for 2009-2010 where the following is promoted: ‘The government is asking for the removal of the age limit for training, stimulation and activation of disabled persons in the context of the 2011 State budget.’ The Committee considers that it is important to ensure equal rights of participation and activity for all, irrespective of the level of function. According to § 10-6 of today’s public health law, benefits can be granted to improve the functioning of daily life for people with disabilities. During treatment of Ot.prp. No 10 for 2003–04 on the law on changes in the law on popular protection and in some other laws, the definition of ‘daily life’ was defined. The Committee points out that recreation, leisure interests and training were excluded from such a definition as could give entitlement to benefits. The Committee points out that exemptions have been granted in the case of specially adapted equipment for toys and sports, so-called activity aids, and equipment for training, stimulation and play to persons under the age of 26. This age limit has been extended on several occasions since it was opened in 1992 to provide assistance to children under 12 years of age for training, stimulation and activation of motor and cognitive function. The intention behind the last extension to today’s 26 years was to capture young traffic damage. The majority of the Committee, apart from the members of the Progress Party, will point to the importance of activity aids for the possibility for young people with disabilities to participate in games and sports activities. Many current facilities require special adaptation and are therefore often significantly more expensive than what the population otherwise pays. Without this scheme, many children and young people would have been deprived of the opportunity to participate in the same way as others. The majority will also point to the importance of activity aids for parents with disabilities in order to participate in games and sports activities with their children. The majority will also point to the fact that a number of secondary issues, including training and stimulation aids, are now being assessed in the Ministry of Labour, in the extension of the recent consultation period for the Auxiliary Products Committee. The need for activity and training is not just important for those under the age of 26. It can clearly also have a positive effect on participation in the labour market by activating and maintaining skills. But in addition to being purely physical, this is also about integration, having the same opportunity to participate with others who may not be in the same situation as themselves. It's about quality of life and good mental health. The majority consider that the Council of State, inter alia: in the light of an overall assessment of the suspension of the Facility Committee, which may consider this further, including, where appropriate, the need for regulatory changes and budgetary implications, and return to the Budget Committee in an appropriate manner. We are pleased that the Council of State will continue to work on this issue, as the Workers' Party's fraction will do. The majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the minutes. I assume that the opposition will present its proposals on the grounds of these.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1049	Daily, we are reminded that physical activity means better health, and more and more young people who are old participate in different activities to stay in shape. The health gain you get by being in activity applies not only to functional health, but also to those with reduced functions and reduced mobility. Government parties have used the note and also the post here now to stress the importance of the possibility for children and young adults to participate, but the Progress Party sees no reasonable reason for them to be deprived of this opportunity over the age of 26. The note also points out the members of the government parties, and it was also said here in the post, how important activity aids are to enable parents with disabilities to participate in play and sports activities with their children. These parents are usually over 26 years old. The Committee says that they will ensure equal rights of participation. You should then be in favour of this proposal today. These are good arguments for removing the age limit, but they won't. Today, many are prevented from participating in activities when they are not covered by the expenditure on specially adapted training equipment, precisely because they are over 26 years of age. Very many traffic victims are also over 26 years old. This sees the Progress Party as pure age discrimination. Today, participation in activities is to a lesser extent possible for those over 26 years of age who rely on this special equipment. Individual adaptation is required and the optional equipment used is very expensive to obtain. This applies to both specially adapted equipment that provides disabled persons with the opportunity to participate in the same activities as functional health, such as bicycles, skis and other things, but also to special equipment and aids to stimulate and maintain or improve motor and cognitive function. For habilitation there may be a need for equipment that is not used for normal recreational activities. As it is today, adults are prevented from maintaining and improving their functions by not having access to, among other things. the type of aids. The party believes that removing today’s artificial age limit on training aids will lead to a better health status and a better everyday life for many, and it could also lead to more active participation in the workplace. We know that many today have lifestyle diseases and aggravated health status because of inaction. This is an important argument that all adults should be able to take responsibility for their own health through various forms of training and organised activities. The Progress Party believes that physical activity and outdoor life are important for public health and that support for special equipment and adapted facilities will be a necessary prerequisite for many disabled people to participate. The rights and opportunities to participate in physical activity should be equal for all, regardless of disability or age. The artificial age limit should now be removed. These have been discussions for eight to ten years already, and all the parties have agreed. It is important that disabled people do not have to pay more than others for similar equipment, but this does not necessarily mean that it must be free of charge. Therefore, the Party considers that a partiality should be considered. The proportion of e.g. bicycles and skis should not exceed the cost of equivalent ordinary equipment, but in the case of special equipment used for habilitation, such as: Walker, no excess should be imposed. NOU 2010:5 provides for the removal of the age limit of 26 for social benefits for activity aids and training and stimulation equipment. The Committee points out that there is a need for a review of current legislation and practices, not only with regard to the reasonableness of the public coverage and what is to be considered as common consumables, but also with regard to the responsibilities of the specialist and public health services. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are already proposing that responsibility be added to Nav, so that the offer is predictable and equivalent throughout the country. Access to facilities cannot be made dependent on the local economy or the economy of the specialist health service, but must be predictable and fair. Training in the use of special equipment and facilities is important and competences in this area also need to be better ensured. If you waive your financial responsibility by entrusting it to municipalities and specialist health services, you may eliminate age discrimination, but you will get discrimination across municipal borders and also a much worse offer when it is the economy of these budgets that will govern it. I therefore take up, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, the two proposals that have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1079	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1082	Securing all people to the extent possible, access to an activity-based life and life-exploitation is a goal in itself. But it's now so that it requires some more organisation for people with disabilities. It does not require less organisation for people with disabilities when they have passed 26 years, so the limit applied for is artificial. In NOW 2010:5, the majority of the sample proposes to remove the 26-year limit. In the Committee, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party support this, and we propose that the government, in the context of the 2012 State Budget, make proposals to remove the age limit for training, stimulation and activation of disabled persons. As the representative of the Progress Party pointed out in his statement, we are also concerned at the fact that this responsibility is placed at Nav, and that a similar offer is being made across the country. In the autumn of 2010, the right presented its own employment strategy for people with disabilities. It had the title ‘From good enough to best possible’. At the heart of this employment strategy was just access to the tools needed for people with disabilities to have a real opportunity to participate where they are initially unable to participate. The idea behind this is that participation in different arenas will help to reduce the thresholds as many of the disabled encounters in the workplace. The rights and opportunities to participate in physical and outdoor activities should be the same for all disabled persons, irrespective of whether the distinction is of 26 years of age or not. Therefore, an ancillary policy that is inclusive and has a future ahead of it should disregard this age limit, as proposed by the Public Investigation Committee. Here the government parties have a good opportunity to make sure that the inclusion is actually strengthened. Sometimes it's like someone needs a little bit more to be able to participate as much as those who have a relatively better starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1093	I would like to join the rapporteur's statement, but I need some comments as well. Having equal opportunities is important, and being in activity is good. We know that, and that's why I don't feel that there's someone who really thinks it's very good that we have such an age limit. But I am among the veterans here in the Storting who worked on this matter also when the President-in-Office was Finance Minister, and made the same proposal when the Right was in government – and the Christian People's Party too – and felt that this was not a priority. This time I don't want to say anything about how this will be prioritised in the future, but at least it is that I expect the President to have some understanding, as he has been Minister of Finance, that actions must be financed within the budget. Many of us have worked for over several years, and the government has reduced this sample with a review of the entire resource area, and we're going to review it. There are some important principles in the NOU that we are going to comment on, and that is perhaps what others have been talking about here: who is it that will be responsible in future? I can signal that initially I agree with those who say that this should be a responsibility for Nav, and that it should be equal throughout the country. This conversion to more municipal responsibility for a wide range of tools, I don't think there's any way to go. And then you've also had the idea that you can have peculiarities in this area. I'm not going to reject that, because it could be some kind of equality in that you get the same cost as others in the future. So that's an option, but it's clear that it might not apply to all of the tools. When it comes to specialized aids, it can be different, and I think that a lot of the tools we're talking about now will have to be specialized, because it's about very special customization in order to be able to perform the activity you want. The Committee was at Beitostølen not so long ago and looked at parts of the tool range that were there, and part of it had to be specially adapted to each individual and could not be reused again to the next person, at least not without relatively large conversions and costs. So it's also an important aspect of how we look at these tools in the future, to what extent you can also make sure that some of these tools that are made and given to people can be reused by others, because there are quite large investments that are made in this. And it's with people with disabilities just like the rest of us, that we have one interest maybe in a part of life and another interest in another part of life, so it changes. It's not like you're doing the same things and you're enjoying the same activities out there, or this kind of tool will work for a long time. So we're going to go through this. I don't think there's anyone who has any fundamental counter-conceptions about this being an opportunity for the entire population, and then we get to work to finance it within the budget framework, both the opposition and we who are in the position. It's a call I think I'll underline one more time, because I haven't seen so much of it in all of the proposals that the opposition has promoted in Stortinge lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1104	The President is very pleased to hear the last speakers underline the budgetary framework, and the President has also been so long on Stortinget that he can say that it hasn't always been like this! In addition, however, the Rules of Procedure make it difficult to continue the debate with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1107	The centre party believes that activation and training tools are important measures to promote the inclusion of disabled people in the social community and which act as a health prevention tool. It is important that disabled people are given the opportunity to participate in sports and leisure activities in line with others, and this is important throughout their lives. This is why the Centre Party has programmed to remove the age limit for the coverage of aids. We see it as positive that the age limit for the coverage of aids has moved several times, so that some more can benefit from the scheme. At the same time, any age limit will be arbitrary. A person does not stop being disabled even if he is a full-year-old and does not stop needing help even if he is a full-year-old. The proposals of the Progress Party and their comments address the issue of co-financing for the disabled person himself, i.e. a marginality. I believe that this is a clear weakness in the proposal. The centre party has the sense of an arrangement of a proponent, and we believe that a proponent must be set like what an ordinary equipment would have cost. I also perceive that the disabled people's own organisations are not negative to such a scheme. Such a system will also be fairer. We avoid age discrimination, while at the same time removing any incentives to hamster aid in the period before one becomes 26 years old. Our starting point is that people with disabilities should be put on the same footing as everyone else in society, and therefore it should not be more expensive or cheaper to be active if you are disabled. Several have been responsible for these aids, and in many ways the treatment that we are going to receive and that the Department is doing in relation to the Emergency Committee. The centre party is traditionally not very afraid to add new tasks to the municipalities if we are sure that the municipalities get the economy they need to solve the problems. In this case, however, we believe from the consultation round that there is also a significant scepticism from the local government itself that municipalities should take over these tasks from Nav. But that's a question we get to come back to. The conclusion must be that the Centre Party is in favour of parts of what is contained in the proposal of the Progress Party. We want to, and look forward to this being looked at in more detail when we're going to deal with the proxy settings, and it's important to be aware that this has a cost page. In fact, this action needs to be given priority to other important issues in a budgetary process, and I know that at least parts of the opposition agree that this is the way budgetary work is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1118	It is not difficult to join the posts that have been held, and they show a broad consensus. I have to say, however, that the speeches from the Right and the Advancement Party I can put the stamp of the Christian People's Party behind, because there is a slightly greater offensive will to address the issue already, and the Christian People's Party is as familiar with the proposal. I will not withdraw the debate that much, but I would like to add to the exchange of lines between the representative Andersen and the president – I have neither the experience nor the age of the representative Andersen, nor to the extent that the president – that, as I recall, the last change, from 18 to 26 years, was carried out by the Bondevik II government in 2003. That's how one took a vow when the president was Minister of Finance – and the president would better correct me if it's wrong. But what I want to add is that for the Christian People's Party, this is about everyone having equal rights to freedom – to leisure, to participate in activities, regardless of disability. And I want to bring out the quality of life. Because what it's about is, you get to participate in the same line with others, even if you have a disability. In a different perspective, when talking about economics, this could also help improve the economy, because you know that if you get those who have a disability, in activity, get them in training, there's a lot of public health in it. And so I think that if someone chooses to invest a little bit extra in that group, it could also lead to more people coming into work, and maybe more people get the opportunity to participate more in other types of activities. In this way, it could improve the quality of life, and also the economy. But the most important thing for me to come up with – even though I now realize that the government parties will vote down our proposals – is that at least it is important that they follow up on what comes from the Auxiliary Committee. In this way, the Christian People's Party meets the big message to come, and based on the signals that are coming today, the Christian People's Party expects that message to go in to remove the age limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1129	This issue concerns the lifting of the current age limit of 26 for the coverage of facilities for training and activation of disabled people. Physical activity and outdoor life are important to all, both for people with disabilities and for people with disabilities. I agree with the majority of the Committee that points to the importance of activity tools for young people with disabilities to participate in games and sports activities. Many current facilities require special adaptation and are therefore often more expensive. Without good activity aids, many children and young people would have been deprived, and excluded, of the opportunity to participate in the same line with others. The current practice of legislation is related to the decision of the Stortinget in the autumn of 2003 to define the concept of ‘daily life’. Following this decision, recreation, leisure interests, training, etc. are: kept outside a definition of what can give entitlement to benefits. The background is, among other things, to avoid demarcation problems in relation to preventive health work, rehabilitation and treatment, which are a responsibility for municipal health and specialist health services. However, exemptions have been made in the legislation on specialised equipment for toys and sports — activity aids — and equipment for training, stimulation and play to persons under 26 years of age. This age limit is related to the opening in 1992 to provide support to children up to 12 years of age for training, stimulation and activation of motor and cognitive function. The age limit was later raised to 18 years in 1996 and 26 years in 2003. The reason for the latest expansion was to capture young traffic damage. The expenditure for both of these purposes has increased sharply in recent years. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has estimated that consumption for these purposes in 2010 was about 57 million. kr. The cost of social benefits for activity aids and equipment for training and stimulation is assumed to double if the age limit of 26 years is deleted. Any such amendment of the legislation would be a budgetary matter. I believe it is important that any legislative change in this area be seen in a broader context. I therefore intend, in line with the majority of the Committee's support, to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an assessment of the need for legislative changes in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1145	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1148	There is a broad consensus that it is important for everyone to have access to training aids. This is socio-economically profitable. There is talk of it being a budgetary question. Yes, but what budgets are to be cut if you give more on one side? Access to training facilities could contribute to a smaller increase — not cut, but a smaller increase — in other areas, such as drug use. disability benefit, sickness benefit, treatment provision, mental illness. So prevention does not necessarily give rise to a single financial year. Does the Council of State feel that it is necessary to cut into other areas for disabled people in order to introduce this, or does the Council of State also see the gain achieved in other budget lines — and perhaps in other areas — and that this needs to be seen in a long-term perspective in the same way as in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1155	I have underlined that I also see the importance of being able to offer this to everyone. I want to reserve myself against what was said about this being age discrimination, because I want to say that this is a good offer that has been extended to children and young people. And doing something for children and young people is not the same as always discriminating against older people. But I believe, like the representative, that this is a good measure, and it is important that we can manage to expand it. But it is clear that this is a budgetary question, and it is clear that the budgets must be suspended. For this reason, the government must see this in a complete context and also in relation to other measures against the disabled and what is the best and best bet. I have, as I said, said that I am coming back to this in an appropriate way, but also related to the treatment we are going to receive from the Committee on the Resources, which has now been at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1160	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1165	I have a relatively special relation to the 26-year limit in terms of activity aids. To put it this way, when I was 25 and five months old, I went from thinking that I was going to fix sleep and medicine, to knowing that I was disabled, and that it was going to be a lifelong thing. The seven months I had up to the 26th year limit were actually used for everything but thinking about what types of activities I was going to engage in in the long term. It gives a slightly surrealistic picture in my head that that limit lies there on a year. It's about being able to take back life and take back mastering. The beet oil has been mentioned here in the past. I have had more stays there, including: together with very many young traffic-damaged boys who need to take back a life that has been gladly filled with speed and excitement. They need to take back some variant of edrenalinkick. A lot of them choose to try "sit-ski", which is actually a fascinating thing to try to run. That means you're stuck in a seat and you've got a ski under you, and then you're going to drive the alpine – one ski, you're stuck in the dark. To say it like this: I have spent three weeks, roughly seen, with my nose at the bottom of the snow in the hope that I would be able to balance. I drove past the Danes in Danskebakken on Beitostølen. It's okay. But those skis are expensive – they cost between 35,000 and 40,000 kroner. When I considered investing in them, I was about 30 years old. I couldn't afford that, because we had newly built houses, we had little kids who were supposed to have skis, bicycles – at all. We're going to work on the matter, precisely because society has changed enormously. From being a society that was segregated, people with disabilities are actually involved in most areas. Disabled people present, attend parental meetings, participate in the days of their children’s activities, participate in society and participate. But that means we have to see it in context, along with the tools, along with the care that we have, along with the organization of society and universal design. So getting back to the case doesn't mean we don't want to do anything about it, but it has to be related to the rest. If we don't keep the budget framework, we can quickly end up with an interest rate increase. Then the disabled with the house is also going to get the same load as everyone else. So I'm very much doing something about the 26-year limit, but within the economic framework and in a system that makes this interrelated, so we don't make, piece by piece and divided, new arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1174	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2811]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1192	It is estimated that in Norway about 44 000 people live on the subject of cleaning. This is not a uniform group of people, but we can safely say that many in the profession are women, and many have minority backgrounds. Purity is invaluable in all workplaces for obvious health reasons and not least for everyone’s well-being. Purity is fundamental to good public health work. Sometimes it is easy in a larger work community to lose the value of others' work of sight. Cleansing is often carried out at all times of the day, often in order not to disrupt the normal operation of a business. Then it can be easy to think that this is only work that is done. But what is the working day and working conditions of those who make sure that it is clean and clean in Norwegian jobs every day? Workers, employers and the media report unprofessionalism, underpayment, undeclared work and conditions that can be described as serious occupational crime. Through different ways of organising away from employer responsibility, unilaterally focusing on price and small control by the contracting entity, distortions of competition are experienced in favour of those actors who do not take into account reasonable wage fixing, tidy working conditions or the work of a more inclusive working life. In addition, the research institution Fafo also warns of unworthy conditions for foreign women working in private homes. There are vulnerable people in the labour market who are exploitable by cynical profitors. How is it that an industry that is so important to us all can get out of control? I believe that a culture has crept into the private and, in part, the public sector so that clean-up is no longer defined as part of the core business, and therefore the tasks are put out to tender. Travelers and usually well paid consultants have over several years spoken down on the value of this profession. These should be parked and used for some more useful work. Instead, there is a need to talk about the value of this work. I believe that public welfare services should be operated under public control with permanent staff. The public sector has a special responsibility to be a preliminary example of what the Norwegian labour market should be like. In the context of clean-up, municipal tariff agreements contribute to a more equitable development of income and good pension entitlements necessary to ensure a pay start-up plan for the entire industry. In the municipalities we have a strong organizational degree, a well-developed apparatus of trust and protection representatives. The NHO has made a booklet of arguments on why public services should be outsourced. That business wants to make a market out of public services and sees great opportunities to make good money on our taxes should not surprise anyone. The fact that the political right-hand side uses this argument for what it is worth should be noted by public employees and Norwegian taxpayers. This report details what competitive outsourcing can mean for employees' wages, employment and pensions. When the leader of the NHO Service, Petter Furulund, attacks the public to face social dumping by unilaterally focusing on the price of tenders, it's talking to two tongues, because in its own argumentation booklet for competitive outsourcing, the public should be able to save 3 billion. kr to tender for cleaning and canteen services alone. In the somewhat diffuse concept of best practice, calculations have been made for their own businesses on how to save a lot of money. This so-called ‘best practice’ is, in my opinion, thoroughly revealed by the organisation’s own membership companies through, among other things. mission of the Municipality of Oslo. However, if services are to be put out of competition, the requirement for Norwegian pay and working conditions in the Public Acquisitions Act is perfectly clear. The practice of the inspection has shown a disclaimer of liability. It may seem that when both the tenderer and the contracting entity save money, it may have been possible not to follow up this responsibility. All public offices and municipalities have to take this responsibility. It is not just the employees who have to pay this price. It must punish itself for the contracting entity not to take this responsibility seriously. The fact that the Right and Advance Party will not demand Norwegian pay and working conditions says that the right side is not interested in ensuring fair income development for the cleaners. There is a great need to raise health, environment and safety on the agenda. The industry has a high level of sick leave. Many people become disabled because of hard, stressful work, and very few are at retirement age. Unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence that there is little HMS work going on in many of the private cleaning companies. We therefore need to raise the status of the protection ombudsmen, who are so important in this work, both by the quality of the schooling being given, and also by creating a better culture for this work. The protection ombudsman of an enterprise is to be the protection ombudsman of employees and is absolutely essential for us to achieve the objectives set out in the IA agreement and help people to stand longer in work. As there are many companies that do not have a functioning protection agency, regional protection agencies are needed in the cleaning, hotel and restaurant industries. Regional protection agencies have been, and are, absolutely crucial in the man-dominated construction sector in order to bring to life health hazards and harmful work. The need is no less within cleaning, hotel and restaurant. I have to say clearly that I am disappointed that the NHO is delaying the process of setting up regional protection agencies as decided by the Stortinget. I want to commend the efforts of the Norwegian Labour Union, the Joint Confederation and the Trade Union to organise cleaners so that we can have more collective agreements, a wage that makes it possible to live on, secure working conditions and a good pension. But it's not an easy problem. Many workers are afraid of losing their jobs and income if the employer finds out that they are part of a trade union. When the industry embraces many with minority backgrounds, language can make it difficult to communicate properly. In addition, many cleaners in private enterprises are spread across different businesses at all foreseeable working hours, making it difficult to get in touch, and many do not have basic knowledge of their rights in the workplace. I find reason to commend the NHO Service, which is willing to come up with measures with the employees and authorities to improve the situation in the industry. On behalf of the municipality, KS has undertaken the task of monitoring the control measures to ensure that the provisions on employee rights contained in the Public Acquisitions Act are complied with. We need serious employers' organisations in this work. While there is reason to favour an active partnership with the NHO Service, there is equally good reason to ask where the other employers’ organisations, such as Specter and HSH, are in this work. These should be made clear and show that they want a more serious working life for cleaners in their businesses. There is also reason to believe that the NHO Service may have contributed to the apparent awakening of the Right to see what problems the industry poses for a serious business life, as the representative Isaacen has signalled support for an approval system for cleaning businesses and the use of ID cards. But this is not far enough. In the fight for decent working life, the Right Party and the Advance Party stand out as a direct threat to the private well-being of cleaners. When the government has promoted numerous proposals to combat social dumping, such as: ensuring employee rights in the law on public acquisitions, contracting entity’s passport, the right of access for trustees, joint and regional protection agents, says no. We need a proper approval system for cleaning farms. Today it is approx. 6 500 cleaners, and they're in strong growth. We need bigger and more serious businesses. There is good reason to believe that many are direct unprofessional enterprises operating organised crime in the event of a constant breach of the provisions of the Working Environment Act. The NHO play on a national minimum wage is not a proposal for a fair development of income. On the contrary, there is every reason to believe that this will contribute to more jobs with a wage that you cannot live on. The road further in the field of clean-up must be aimed at generalising parts of the collective bargaining agreement. Both LO and NHO are entering the tariff topic with that goal, and there is reason to believe that this will be a reality soon. The conditions in the cleaning industry clearly show that good wishes are not enough to ensure the Norwegian model. In addition to the government's active efforts to combat social dumping through Action Plans 1 and 2, there will in future be a need for new strong measures. I think it's a perfectly correct strategy to work with industry-oriented programmes in a tripartite cooperation in the future. Both employees, serious employers and authorities have a common interest in our success. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: How serious does the Council of State feel that clean-up conditions are, and what measures may be necessary in the short and long term to create cleaner working conditions and a fair income development for the important occupational group cleaners?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1224	The Adecco case has shown us that we are facing major challenges in Norwegian working life. Competition and efficiency can be useful, but pressure is also created when companies and individuals are required to make money. When we know that the cleaning industry is identified as the ‘hosting industry’ by all the parties in the Norwegian working life, the recent revelations say something about what conditions we have to fight against. For the government, the fight against social dumping is absolutely fundamental – not only because everyone should have the right to decent pay and good working conditions, but also because as a society we have a duty to give those who are serious, the necessary framework conditions. What is especially important about the cleaning industry is that it has had to deal with challenges related to HMS, black work, low wages and unacceptable working hours over a long period. Problems have been exacerbated by increased labour migration. The government has promoted two action plans against social dumping. In this context, we have implemented a number of targeted actions with good results. Work supervision is strengthened – not only with crowns and ears, but also with new and effective sanctions against corporate owners who play unclean games. We have also put in place concrete measures specifically aimed at sectors with complex challenges. One of these measures is the regional protection ombudsman scheme, which we are now working with in relation to the clean-up and hotel and restaurant industries. Based on years of experience with this in the construction industry, I have great faith that the regional protection agency scheme will make a positive contribution. I am also pleased that we, together with the parties last autumn, agreed to launch a tripartite industry programme against the unprofessional nature of the cleaning industry. It follows from Soria Moria II and from the 2010 wage settlement that the government and the parties will cooperate through tripartite sectoral programmes. Measures are being taken in sectors particularly vulnerable to unprofessionalism, social dumping and exclusion and work environment problems. The cleaning industry is undoubtedly such an industry, and the parties agree that this should be a pilot industry for the industry programmes. The industry programme is, in my view, a completely necessary framework for the development and implementation of the necessary measures for the clean-up industry. It's set at 10 million. kr to the industry programme in 2011. A first important measure is to put in place an official authorisation system, combined with an effective control system. We are now doing this work. A project has also been launched to identify and summarise existing knowledge on the challenges in the clean-up sector. The project will make a valuable contribution to the further design of the industry programme and a useful input into the final design of the recognition system. The main measures to improve clean-up conditions are therefore to be developed within the Sectoral Programme in cooperation with the social partners. I have recently invited all relevant parties to a meeting this month to discuss the further design of the industry programme, including how we can work together most appropriately in the future. I am very concerned about gripping both the private and the public sectors. In the run-up to the Adecco cases, we also saw examples of unacceptable contracts and employment, including in the public sector. In January I therefore sent a note to my government colleagues asking for a review of my own businesses and underlying establishments. I have followed this up by asking for a written statement from all the departments about what they are actually doing to prevent this. I have taken initiatives towards the KS to identify and discuss the scope and challenges of purchasing cleaning services and caring for local authorities' responsibilities to ensure good pay and working conditions. This work will now naturally be part of the work of the Party-wide Working Group set up by the Labour Market Policy Council on 1 March. The Group shall consider measures against social dumping in the public sector, with a particular focus on the municipal sector. This will be an important work for the cleaning industry. If we are to succeed in the fight against social dumping, Norwegian municipalities are one of our most important arenas. In 2008, the government introduced a regulation on pay and working conditions in public contracts. The regulation imposes specific conditions of pay and employment in the country, municipality, county and public enterprises when services and commissions are put out to tender. The rules implement ILO Convention No. 94 in Norway. With this regulation, we have legislation that ensures stable and fair pay and working conditions for all workers in the public sector, provided that the rules are followed. As you know, ESA has asked questions as to whether this legislation is compatible with the EEA Agreement. The government believes – unlike some other parties – that we have a good legal basis to believe that ILO Convention No. 94 is in line with the broadcasting directive. Publicising the tariff agreement in the cleaning industry will be important. Public disclosure will not only affect the level of wages and salaries; it will also allow for the use of several instruments against unprofessionalism, such as duty of care, transparency and solidarity. In particular, the Labour Inspectorate can come in with its tools. LO and NHO agree that public disclosure will be a good measure, and a requirement for the publication of parts of the Agreement for cleaners is now subject to tariff treatment. I'm very happy about that, and I'm very happy that the parties together are supporting this with publicity here. Finally, I would like to briefly mention the big business message about working conditions and the working environment, which I will present before the summer. The Communication will have a comprehensive perspective on the challenges facing us in the world of work and will guide the challenges facing the future. Action against unprofessionalism and social dumping will become an important theme of this Communication, and the fact that tripartite cooperation is a key element will be fundamental. In the cleaning industry, we are facing the most difficult test of work against unprofessionalism and social dumping to date. Cleaners are an important profession. They do an absolutely indispensable job wherever there are people – in all hospitals, schools, hospitals, in kindergartens, in all offices, in shops, hotels and factories. It is important to me that each cleaner can feel pride in the job they do. One important step to achieve this is to ensure that they can do their job under arranged working conditions and that they have a wage to live on. I will end by saying that this is about the fate of individuals, but it is also a question of our own morals. If we tacitly accept that a Polish cleaner is working night shifts without a supplement, with the reason ‘she's doing well compared to Polish pay’, then we undermine our own social model, and no one will be served.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1265	There is every reason to thank the Council of State for such an offensive approach to this as she has shown, not only in the response to the interpellation here today, but by putting the parties down to work and really clean up the front for social dumping – the front has moved to clean-up, to directly illegal ways of exploiting people and constantly violating the provisions of the Working Environment Act. If we cannot take this obscenity here, it will spread as a poison to other parts of the Norwegian labour market as well. This is about the phenomenon that we know from other countries, namely the fight against ‘working poor’. For my part, this work is simply about repatriating respect for honest, hard work, and when you carry out an entire working day, you have to be able to live on the income you create. I am very open to new instruments in this fight as well as all the instruments promoted in terms of, among other things. social dumping. But we also know that in the private sector there is a culture of fear when it comes to organizing or telling about critical circumstances because one risks losing one's own wages and income and employment. We have a lot to deal with, and I'm glad the Council of State is showing itself so offensive, so clear about this. We'll probably need more tools in the future. There are challenges for the Norwegian labour market, and with increased labour migration this will not be easier. The more important it is to have a government that plays with the social partners, instead of putting one's head in the sand, refusing to take action and believing that this is not a political matter. It is a political matter to ensure fair income development for all professional groups in this country. I also hope that the debate will also show whether the bourgeois opposition is interested in being involved in vigorous action or whether it is that the cleaners do not have an ally in the bourgeois parties, and what it can mean that we get blue county councils and blue municipalities around, with massive outsourcing of competition – not least after the next major elections. I believe that this debate will reveal who has ambitions to ensure a decent and good working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1276	I would like to thank the interpellant both for raising this question and for nice words. It is a demanding task to work with social dumping, and it is nice to get feedback on it. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity, as I did in my introduction, to commend the parties, who have taken great care of this. And as I just underlined, if we're going to succeed, we're dependent on professional cooperation and depending on party cooperation. There are two things I want to add in addition to what I said in the introduction. What we see as totally symptomatic throughout these industries, especially in the cleaning industry where there is a lot of social dumping, is that there is unskilled labour, a very large element of female labour, and a large element of immigrants. And what do these identify? Well, they have a very, very low level of organisation – as the interpellant was about. They have no relation to being organized at all. I think that in addition to the tools that I have outlined, one of the most important things we can do – and I challenge the Norwegian working parties – is to ensure that those who work in these industries get into an organized working life. In general, we know that where you have a well-organised working life, where the union works well, this kind of illegality does not allow you to party over time. The next thing I want to say, which we also have to be very clear about in this work, is that each of us who buy these services have a responsibility. I think a lot of people in Norway don't know what they're into buying. I don't know if anyone here in this room saw a television show a while ago – it was made by Swedish TV – with interviews with women in Eastern European countries who actually do these services to a large extent in Norway and other countries. The programme was entitled ‘The abandoned children’ and it was about children who have parents who travel here and work to such poor pay and working conditions that they cannot afford to go home during vacations. It sounds a little messy, but it's actually a reality for a lot of people. And that's what we're responsible for if we don't provide – both as individuals and as responsible for agencies, etc. – that those who work get decent and decent pay and a pension plan to live off.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1289	At a seminar on the conditions in the cleaning industry, organised by the NHO Service and Norwegian Arbeitsmandsförbund a few weeks ago, Geir Gambarg-Nielsen in the Arbeitsmandsförbundt said the following: ‘Contactors of NAF on social dumping are often 1st generation immigrants, unresectable asylum seekers, stateless, paperless, illegal immigrants, victims of trafficking in human beings and general businesses and trust-chosen. We get insight into a everyday life and a misery that has often made me feel bad. A major social problem is that there are several hundred million dollars flowing between major companies and subcontractors. Subcontractors include all variants, including serious organised crime.’ I think this is a fairly precise description of the conditions in an industry where serious actors are being challenged by the unprofessional, where social dumping is today's system, where Norwegian laws and working conditions are being broken, and where people in a vulnerable situation are being exploited in the most serious way. That's why I want to commend today's interpellant who raises a very topical question, just as there's reason to praise the NHO Service and the professional movement that they, in cooperation with the authorities, aim to clean up in an industry that so absolutely needs it. I am pleased that the Council of State is so strongly involved in the fight against social dumping, because she has a focus on the clean-up industry, so that we now have regional protection representatives and identity cards, and that the Labour Inspectorate in its control activities is now giving priority to the clean-up industry. Even more important is the fact that the Labour Inspectorate provides sanctions when laws and regulations are broken. In addition, cooperation with police and tax authorities needs to be extended in this area. I think this is a good beginning, and I stress that it's a beginning. The fight against social dumping is not even won for everyone. Nor is it won by laws and regulations and frequent controls alone, even if this is a necessary prerequisite. We need to remove the market in a short time. Then maybe we can start with what's closest to us, the public sector, and first of all the municipalities, which is a big and important buyer of cleaning services. Actually, this should be easy, because the municipalities are bound by their procurement regulations which are designed to remove unprofessional operators from any tendering process and which would ensure normal pay and employment conditions for employees of the companies, including the purchase of cleaning services. At the same time, the contracting entity has an obligation to check and ensure that the tendering obligations are complied with. Unfortunately, this is not the case, which the media have explicitly documented in recent months. An example from a municipality that I know well can illustrate this: the municipality lights up the cleaning team in three schools on offer. The lowest price, and only that determines the tender. Then it turns out that the tenderer has miscalculated. You've counted too low. Consequently, it was to be believed that the company concerned was excluded from the tendering procedure, and that the offer was then the second lowest tenderer. But, no. The municipality insists that tenders submitted are binding and requires the tender to be accompanied by the losses it will incur. Then it turns out that the municipality has also forgotten to require a self-declaration of social responsibility as a basis for the competition because this was not considered relevant. It is in this self-declaration that the tenderers undertake to comply with Norwegian pay and working conditions. According to the rapporteur, this was a misappropriation. The tenderers have subsequently assured the municipality that the applicable rules and tariffs for remuneration will be followed. In my opinion, this is a social dumping scheme. Of course, it is part of the story that the municipality has not found any reason to make sure that normal pay and working conditions and working hours are complied with. I do not believe that my municipality or other municipalities are acting in an evil way. Of course, municipalities are concerned about buying services at the lowest price possible, but not at any price. History is, in my opinion, an expression of lack of professionalism and purchasing competence, perhaps also a certain amount of loss of mind or unconsciousness. In fact, I think we have a lot to pick up in this area, because, as I said, this is about cleaning up a large and important market for unprofessional actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1314	I want to thank the interpellant for an important question. It turns out that social dumping is still a hot topic in the societal debate. This is done both by the private suppliers, by the public, and unfortunately also by those who buy services in their own home – not only in the cleaning industry. I'm sorry. The interpellant is talking hot when it comes to the public, but we have to be aware that social dumping is happening here and there in public as well. The Minister of Labour has probably got on the table in his department cases where it has been shown that there is a bad development when it comes to long working hours and not least low hourly rates. She said at the same seminar that Gullvåg and I were at before that she wanted to get involved. She had taken hold of this before – be honoured for it – and I hope now that it is arranged in. I would like to thank the Minister for saying that she is busy with this and will insist that in the future we will not have such a bad basis for working time and hourly rates in the public or private sector. But one must, however, distinguish between what is the outsourcing of services, and what is a breach of working conditions, and not mix this up as we have seen both red-green politicians and the media have done lately. When you talk about supply, it's actually a possibility that someone who can make sure you don't have social dumping. There is no one who can stop you when it comes to what you can put into an offer: of course, good working conditions, that's quite clear – and some municipalities have actually been very good at it, we must not forget that. I want to clarify one thing. The party of progress is concerned with maintaining a decent and decent working life, where workers have good conditions. This principle applies regardless of where the employees come from. There is no clear definition of social dumping. However, it is important to clarify that we need clear rules and minimum standards in Norwegian working life. It is best that the social partners and the public cooperate closely. It is important to find accurate and targeted measures to take the unprofessional actors. Supervisory authority is a public responsibility that one cannot privatize, nor put away. Consumer operators in the labour market can best be countered by a strengthened labour market surveillance system. We've made that clear. in the budget debate. Only by a strengthened supervisory system can we get good oversight. But then we also have to get an outpatient labour inspectorate, and not like now, with notice both weeks and months in advance to do what should have been done a long time ago. As changes to the Working Environment Act and the Public Administration Act were adopted, the Progress Party had comments on the setting through some requirements we thought had to be in place. These are requirements for documentation, including: to comply with laws and regulations in respect of pay and working conditions, registration of subcontractors by tax authorities, display of tax certificates, registration in Brønnøysundregistra, company certificate from the home country and cooperation with the police. Public authorities must be able to require contractors to make a good and proper assessment before entering into contracts, and contracting authorities must require their contractors to comply with the laws and regulations in force. We are positive – and I would like to stress that we are busy – to ensure a serious and well-functioning working life by ensuring that both Norwegian and foreign companies act seriously and in accordance with current laws and regulations. The measures taken to combat social dumping are intended to provide workers working in Norway with good and equal opportunities. The Progress Party has previously put forward proposals for a so-called ROT deduction, which was introduced in Sweden in 2008. This would have been a good idea to fight social dumping and black work, especially what goes on in private homes – but without the support of the majority. In Sweden, the scheme has become very popular. She had probably also stayed here in the country, but unfortunately one does not see this as a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1340	All employees and employers want a Norwegian working life that is characterised by seriousness, tidy conditions, good pay and working conditions and good profitability. In the debate on social dumping, however, it may seem that some will do so more than others, and that those actors who do not immediately close up on all the solutions presented are social dumping, unprofessionalism and undeclared work. Of course it's not like that. I would like to thank the representative of Thor Erik Forsberg for addressing a very important issue. Cleanness, predictability and transparency are important prerequisites for a healthy, good and profitable working life. That is why we need to ensure that serious actors are not challenged by businesses that are operating on the edge of the law and what we generally regard as good working and pay conditions. As the interpellant knows, the NHO Service has on several occasions noted that the cleaning industry in particular has had problems with unprofessional operators, who have provided their employees with different conditions of employment and pay which involve social dumping. This loses the serious clean-up industry, and of course the workers are affected. Last summer, Dagbladet had several observations on unfair and unacceptable conditions among some operators in the industry, in particular the Cleanit company involved in cases of underpayment. The company was responsible for cleaning at Ski Storsenter. But instead of providing the cleaning services directly to the sponsor, Cleanit himself practiced a system of subcontractors. Through a seemingly systematic practice of bankruptcy and unpaid taxes, Cleanit was able to compete with serious activities concerning the offer of Ski Storsenter and also elsewhere. This went beyond the employees, both in Cleanit's subcontractors and in the serious establishments that lost their tender. Let it be clear: the type of activity that this company engaged in is completely unacceptable. No one in this room will support it. And then the job is how we can best make sure that the market does not open up this kind of illegality. The first step on the road is to recognise the efforts of the NHO Service and other business organisations. In the case of Cleanit, the NHO Service responded by closing them out and arranging for control measures. The right also did this last summer by proposing a so-called laundry policy, an authorisation system for cleaning companies. We have also proposed strengthening the Labour Inspectorate in all our alternative budgets since 2006, which improves the ability of supervision to detect social dumping. We should go further in the scope of the sanctions of the Labour Inspectorate, and a checklist should be introduced to clarify which obligations a contracting entity undertakes to check out upon the conclusion of a contract with a subcontractor. This should include, inter alia: contain requirements for: evidence that the subcontractor has made a promise to comply with the remuneration and working conditions requirements of the public service regulations that the subcontractor is registered with and has sent information to the tax authorities that the subcontractor is registered in the Brønnøysund Registers as a requirement for the presentation of a tax certificate as a requirement for the production of a company certificate from the home Member State; We proposed this already in 2007, and with such a system, it would be easier to identify actors such as Cleanit and easier for contracting entities, whether we are talking about public or private orders, to choose the serious part of the industry. Then we feel that those who do not support all the proposals that come about a tightening up of legislation and laws around these problem areas are declared as followers of social dumping. Of course it's not like that. I just want to stress that out of a total of 24 proposals that have gone through legislative and regulatory changes or budgetary appropriations in this area, the Right has supported 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1373	This is a very important debate on something that characterizes the Norwegian welfare society, namely that we have a working life where people have a job that they can both live from time to time. It has built the country, and that is what this is all about. It's about no one being subjected to social dumping, but it's also about the consequences of social dumping if we can't stop it. That is what we now see in the wake of the Adecco scandal, where – to put it that way – it is not just about foreign labour coming here and being exploited for a period, but about a systematic effort to bring down the wages of ordinary workers. It's about the assistant nurse, the nursery assistant, the cleaner and the carpenter. That's why I get a little upset when I now hear the opposition – and perhaps especially the Right – saying that this is about counting the number of proposals they have been against in terms of social dumping. It is precisely the most effective measures they have been against, and not just that: the justification for it has been quite special, for example. when they refused to implement the ILO 94 in the municipal sector. I've gone in and seen what the Right, the Advance Party and the Left meant that time. So they wanted these flexible solutions that contribute to a free and dynamic labour market throughout the EU, and they thought that a system to ensure these pay and working conditions would lead to increased costs for municipalities that they thought could not afford. When the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have voted against joint and several liability, access rights and obligations in the Stortinget, they have argued in writing, in the settings. They oppose it because it prevents competition on wages and salaries – it prevents competition on wages and salaries. It means falling into pay, for the employees we're talking about right now. In the case of the cleaning industry, it is special. When I arrived at the Stortinget in 1997, there was a scheme called Clean Development. There was tripartite cooperation between the authorities and the social partners to approve such enterprises and to ensure that they followed legal and contractual works. Another important aspect was that they should also ensure knowledge of all the hazardous chemicals that people in the cleaning industry have to deal with, because it is also an important aspect that working conditions are often very health-threatening in themselves and directly health-threatening – because they do not have knowledge or information about the dangerous chemicals they handle. Unfortunately, it was not possible to implement this scheme under the EEA Agreement, but when we are about to put in place an authorisation system, it must have all these conditions. This is not just about a traditional downgrading of a very important profession because it is a female drug. It's a bit of that, but it's also about many of these having such a tough work situation that I don't think I know anyone who's been to retirement in such a profession. In that case, it's very few. These are very hard and very demanding jobs, and they are the ones that are most competitive now. So one thing: I'm very happy with what the Council of State and the government are now starting. A piece of what we now have to put in place is also fines or penalties, so it's sloppy. Social dumping is extremely profitable. That's why it has to be very expensive to be taken, and it has to be more likely to be taken. So Reiertsen says that we mix the cards in terms of outsourcing and social dumping. No, we don't, because outsourcing opens up to a host of subcontractors where the possibility of social dumping is obvious. Where people are hired directly in the business, it is possible to control this in a completely different way. The Progress Party has also voted against the rules that they are now saying the municipalities should respect, and they have said that it is perfectly right that people go down to pay. Those who have the toughest job on the labour market will compete downwards in wages and salaries with foreign labour coming here. It creates working conditions that are directly dangerous to health. It competes with serious firms, and it destroys pay and working conditions for all ordinary workers in this country. That's SV against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1390	I am concerned that we need to be better able to appreciate the work done by the cleaning industry. This work is such that one might first notice how important it is, the day it is not being done. Evil tongues will probably say the same about us who have our daily work in this room. I'll let that lie. I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up the theme, which unfortunately is very topical at the moment. It is important to establish that the objective of this government — and of the Centre Party — is to have decent pay and working conditions in all sectors. The Adecco case that has been rolled up has highlighted several weaknesses in the competitive outsourcing regime. It is such that competitive outsourcing provides ground for social dumping. When social dumping is revealed, one feels that private companies are quickly following the path. The workers are left behind, and often the municipality, state or others are the only ones who can take responsibility in the short term. The Adecco case highlights that the fight against social dumping is still highly topical. The Central Party believes that the fight against social dumping is essential for the preservation of the Nordic welfare model, with high employment and a human-friendliness of work. As far as the clean-up industry is concerned, a number of measures are in place to improve the situation. Both the interpellant and the state councils have been in on them, so I'm not going to go deeper into it. But the challenges will be greater, because we are bound by a regulatory framework across the EU. The EU's labour policy is based on a market-liberalist ideology that they have enshrined in the Constitution, where growth is often ahead of people's concerns. We see a temporary agency directive that is on its way, which is designed to stimulate the increased use of temporary workers, and which will create greater uncertainty in the industry. I hope that we can increase respect for the two-party relationship in the world of work, and that we can have a new spring for the principle of one house, one employer. Several today have stressed the need to strengthen supervision. I think supervision is important, but it does not solve all problems. To believe that supervision itself provides for orderly conditions in the workplace is naive. I am not surprised that the Right and Advance Party, instead of focusing on getting orderly conditions in the cleaning industry, will have control as the main tool to clean up. But the Adecco case isn't a personal accident, it's the back of the competition. This brings me to the next topic, and there is black work, especially in the household market. The NHO carried out a survey earlier this year that showed that about 22 pst. of the asked people thought it was okay with the ‘black’ cleaning. This is problematic both for society and for the individual who works. There has been a previous mention here of a proposal they have implemented in Sweden on a tax deduction for home and recreational home cleaning and maintenance services. The Central Party believes that we should dare to discuss these kinds of things. We are here in an area where neither the parties nor the Labour Inspectorate can come in. Then we have to make it easy and profitable to live legally. I think we need to work considerably in the future to clean up that part of the black industry. It will be important that the measures are effective, but they may also be socio-economically viable. Then at least the Central Party doesn't see any reason why we shouldn't dare discuss them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1414	First, I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue and for the good contributions that have been made in the debate. The fight against social dumping must continue. For the Christian People's Party, it is also about the protection of the weak party and that we as authorities have a great responsibility to ensure that working life is in a way that we can be proud of. What I also think it is important to raise, is that in this industry, there is a desire to be serious. I say it that way because there are actually many companies and companies that want to run seriously, but who experience that they are losing tenders to more unprofessional parties. I think that might be some of the things that are important to address. As many people have been involved, for example: NHO Service has been busy doing something about the industry in order to get it more serious, and it means that we need to be even better, even more impatient about making demands, come up with measures that make those unprofessional, those who abuse the workers, those who make sure that there is social dumping, are taken. So I think the idea of ID cards is going to be good, and I'm going to help out there. Good cooperation between employers, employee organisations and authorities or the Nordic model may be one of the most important tools. For the Christian People's Party, it's important that one continues to cooperate in a good way, because it's precisely where one can be involved in revealing social dumping. If, for example: the trade union movement through trustees in companies and employers who are involved in it focuses on it, and one could also be involved in revealing it. Many say that this is, put on the head, jobs that we don't want, at all times of the day. One also knows that many immigrants work as cleaners. For many immigrants, this job is no. 1st@item: inlistbox The industry is characterised by a low level of organisation, both among employers and among employees. Many asylum seekers who receive a temporary work permit while waiting for the application for asylum to be finalised have the opportunity to work for them to do something meaningful during that waiting period, and it also facilitates their integration into society if they are allowed to do so. Temporary work permit asylum seekers may also be legally recruited to the industry. We know that many of the people who have been exploited are in this group. We must prevent people from being exploited in Norwegian working life. The Labour Inspectorate has carried out a number of inspections in the clean-up sector, and there have been unexplained cases of breaches of health, environmental and safety rules, black work and lack of employment contracts. From this point of view, I think the theme on which the representative Pollestad was involved in the previous article is important, because it is not all that is easy to capture, either by employees, employers or authorities. In this way, it will also be important to be able to hold individuals accountable. The fact that a person experiences that there are so many private individuals who want to buy black labour, and in that way maintain social dumping, is something we have to work with. There I have to challenge the Council of State, if one can make more demands, make proposals that can improve the quality of the industry, for example. through what Pollestad said, with tax arrangements that make it profitable to go away from undeclared work and over to do it properly. As there are so many immigrants and asylum seekers working in the clean-up sector, I would also like to challenge the Council of State whether there are other measures that you can come with to perhaps facilitate integration. Even if it's job number. 1 for many, it is also important to be able to make sure that they can get a job no. 2, that they can get better Norwegian training, and that they can know how things work to move on in the workplace. That's why it's important to get a serious business, just to get them to take a job that many North people unfortunately don't want to have. Then I think it might be an opportunity to help them get integrated, and also help them get an education and maybe other jobs in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1431	First, I want to thank the interpellant for taking on a very important theme, the ratio in the cleaning industry. This is a branch that needs to be cleaned up. In the media, it's called "dirty laundry". I am pleased that the government has taken the matter up and is taking action, but I also think it is important that we here in Stortinget discuss this. Let me start with some numbers: 1 January this year there were 6,142 sewage treatment plants in Norway. On March 1, there were 6,303, so over 100 companies more in two months. Then you have to ask some questions: what's going on? Why are there so many new companies in such a short time? I'm very much in favour of people starting their own business. I'm happy about it, but not if it's a design for employers to tell off their employer's responsibilities. What's covered is that a lot of people start one-man businesses. The employer fills in the form and they only sign. At the same time, they say that they have all the rights of employees, such as the right to leave, the right to leave and the right to leave. It's actually social dumping in practice. In fact, a judgment from the construction industry says that this is illegal. A self-employed person from Estonia works in the construction industry here in Norway. He was home on vacation. Then he was told that the assignment was over, i.e. that he simply got fired. That person went to court, and the court recognized that he was self-contained, was just a designed model. In fact, he was assigned, and he actually had to have both cancellation time, holiday money, etc. It appears that such structures for the purpose of exemption from employer obligations are illegal. This person was resource-intensive, but what do we hear about, which is in the same situation, and which can hardly speak Norwegian? Some people are entitled to work every seven hours for free and at very low hourly rates. The newspaper has run a case about this industry, and here there are unlikely many examples of unworthy relationships, such as: people from outside the EU who receive Italian passports and flights to Norway, and then they are added to the treatment industry, which states that their salary is DKK 120, but then they are taken for passports, for air travel and for losji – and then the hourly price is far below the five-step. It's totally unacceptable. Fortunately, something positive happens at times. In the Sunnmørspost on Monday this week we could read about happy boys from Estonia who got their quadruple pay. They worked at night, they didn't have night plugins, and they didn't have overpayment the same time they worked. But when this was covered, they got both tariff and night supplements. It's good when it's done. It is quite serious when we see that public etatar has also had a cleaning company operating illegally. Then I would like to point out that the public has a very important responsibility, even though things are outsourcing. It is important for the public to go ahead with a good example — both when they enter into the contracts and when it applies to subsequent follow-up. It is not that one may lose responsibility when the contract is signed. So we have to ask ourselves what to do. It is important that the minister has taken care of this, and we are very pleased about that. Regulation on pay and working conditions in public contracts is an important step. Generalisation of the collective bargaining agreement is an important step. ID cards and regional protection measures are important. In fact, I believe that it is also very important that we have an authorisation system for a reindeer company, so that those who buy the services can be sure that they are dealing with a company that operates according to the law. In addition, they must also be responsible for the companies under consideration. It is necessary to be responsible for solidarity – only in this way can we be sure that the services are properly performed. This is about people who are working in our country, and we can't actually accept that one has a kind of subclass that lives under completely different conditions than what we accept for ourselves. Therefore, I am very happy that our government is taking action, and I look forward to the results of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1452	I would like to thank all those who have participated for a good debate. I find it particularly interesting to note that the Christian People's Party appreciates more the right of access for those elected to trust than what one has done by previous decisions taken in the Stortinget. It's positive, and it could also make it more obvious to the bourgeois parties that this problem needs strong instruments. I also very much agree with Karin Andersen, who in his post specifically mentions that we have to have a sanction regime in place so that it is suffocating. We need an effective policy for those companies that want to run seriously. I think there are several proposals that are up in this debate, which it is important to take part in the further work and discuss the possibilities for. A proposal that has been made is collective action, especially in those companies in the private sector where the fear of organizing is quite great and it is difficult to stand up. But we have some allies with us in this work. This applies to all the thousands of trustees in the trade unions around, and to the protection ombudsmen, who have a special type of role. It may also be interesting for us to see in the future whether we should have a strengthened role with opportunities to stop work where there are irregularities in subcontracting, for example. I think it is striking that the Right Party and the Advance Party today seem to be very concerned about those to whom this topic applies. There is nothing in the political issues proposed by the Right and the Progressive Party which, when there have been voting on various proposals here, confirms such an offensive attitude towards them. On the contrary, one believes that competition is healthy in this area, and one is not as concerned that people have an income that they can actually live off. But it's revealing for the debate. I wish that the Right Party and the Advance Party actually dared to be a little more ideologically open about their commitment – they have great faith that the market will solve this. That is what I would like to see more strongly in this debate. Some have pointed to the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate is important in terms of both tools and personnel in order to exercise effective supervision and impose penalties, but it is impossible to imagine that the Labour Inspectorate should be able to handle this job alone. We need strong partners of alliances – in the NHO, in the trade unions – but not least we need the structures we have in the workplace, with the protection ombudsmen and trust leaders, who are to ensure that this is done properly and properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1465	Again: Thank you to the inter-pellant, and thank you to those who have taken part in the debate for a good debate. If we get a two-track working life, we undermine the entire Norwegian model, while at the same time giving our state of law a powerful battle side if we allow black work, human trafficking and other crime in the labour market. There are many examples of countries that have already come so far, and we must not get there. As an advanced society, we also need to ensure that those who keep laws and regulations in Norway can actually compete on the right terms, and that people do not compete that they actually break Norwegian law. I'm still being asked, when have you settled everything with social dumping, councillor? That's a journalistic question. I underline, as many others here have done, that this is a continuous work. We're facing pretty big forces, I think. That's why I'm very concerned that we have to use all possible, imaginable means. I think that's where some of the conflict goes at the opposition – or at least at the Right. When they say that they have supported many of the proposals that the government has made, it is precisely those that have not been supported, which at least the government believes are very important – in addition to others. That is why I would like to thank representatives from both the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, who have made good proposals that we should look into. Here we need to look at everything that is possible to do something about this matter. Finally, some have mentioned the role of the Labour Inspectorate. It has also been part of the debate recently. The Labour Inspectorate shall do his/her job — be sure. The labour inspectorate shall make the necessary inspections, whether unannounced or not. I trust that the Labour Inspectorate will make a concrete and correct assessment. What is important is that – as the representative Pollestad was also involved – this should not be dealt with through supervision. You sort this out by having clear rules, which the people who are actually responsible for keeping, keep. We have clear rules today that the municipalities have a responsibility to ensure that when they buy services, they are supplied in line with Norwegian laws and regulations. The municipalities have to do that. Of course, those who provide these services also have to deliver according to Norwegian rules, and not – as I have said before – to make offers that you do not actually comply with Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1476	Then there's case no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1492	There were high expectations for Nav when the Nav reform was adopted by a broad majority in the United Kingdom in 2005. The intention behind the Nav reform was, of course, to want more holistic thinking, and one wanted to help more people to be or get into activity and work rather than go on passive benefits. As many people remember, there was a big discussion about whether there should be one or two floors. But after discussion in Stortinget, it ended up wanting one. At the same time, it has also been an important part of the reform — and the intention — that a highly competent first line be sought. I would like to quote from the position of the Social Committee in 2005, which states: ‘In addition to good availability, the Committee will place great emphasis on the need for the first line to have a level of competence and decision-making responsibilities that make these offices a place where people really feel the guidance and assistance they need, as far as possible without having to refer to other offices, bodies and ‘doors’. The common first line must comply with clear requirements for rapid clearance, removal of grey zones and throwing-ball trends and the rapid commencement of action.’;» It was a good intention and a good decision that the Stortinget made. We are many who have faith in Nav, who believe that Nav is important. Nav is precisely where the public can meet the people who have fallen outside, or the people who are in a difficult situation, and who need it publicly to stand up for themselves. That way, Nav might be one of the tools, or one of the great possibilities, that public has to be able to help people get an even better life and help them get back to work. There are incredible opportunities that lie in Nav. What is one of the keys to making Nav work is, of course, that you can have good cooperation between the state and the municipality. One of the important elements of that cooperation is, of course, that you have a common sense of reality, that you experience the same situation, and that you experience that you have the tools you need to meet this reality. In this way, labour market measures are an important instrument, and qualification programmes can also be discussed. Both parts are about releasing more resources to be able to work to get people into work. Or the ICT system: the fact that employees in the Nav offices feel that you have the tools you need, and do this effectively, in order to concentrate on how to get people out of work. This is where I come to my concern, my sense of reality and my feedback on how Nav works. Unfortunately, for my experience, the government has actually lost some of its control. If they've had the steering wheel, at least they've released the steering wheel. While there have been four state councils in the last five years who have worked with Nav – one of the most important and major reforms that Norway has implemented, which brings together different agencies and different cultures, which may require extra-large governance from the state and from the state councils. At least what I'm experiencing, and what you're looking at, is that you haven't been able to create a unit between the different offices or the different levels – and between the state and the municipality as well. An example of treatment now available in the United Kingdom is the Riksrevision report on the follow-up of the sick. This is a simple example, where the variation from state to state is relatively large, and where one sees that the implementation of dialogue meetings is 20 pst. in one state, and it's up to 60 pst. in another State. It tells me that at least there are different guides or different signals coming out to the states. What are the consequences of Nav not working? Well, as we've seen, and as we get feedback, users don't get their money. Those who are waiting for their social security or waiting to get social assistance, experience customs duties with computer systems, or unfortunately there are too many applications or so many cases for treatment that they cannot be dealt with quickly enough. It affects people who need the money. Or one sees that applications «disappear»: the application is submitted to the local Nav office, and when one has not received a reply and asks how far the application has come, it feels as if the application has disappeared because they have no knowledge of the application at the local Nav office. Or as several Nav leaders say to me, the result of Nav not working properly is that several ends end up in long-term social benefits instead of getting into activity. For the possibilities that you have in Nav, you can also turn around. When one doesn't make it work, that's exactly the opposite: when one doesn't get to the early effort, when one doesn't get to the tight follow-up, one won't succeed in getting more in action. And the losers are the people who need our help most. One can look at the Moor and the Romsdal and the local Nav uprising as I pointed out there, where the councillor in Herøy municipality sent letters to all the country's rapporteurs, and one knows that the KS in Møre and Romsdal, or KS in Agder for that matter, describes the situation as very dramatic. Or you can look at the situation in Northern Ireland, where there are challenges. Or one might see that in the office in Kristiansand, which was supposed to be the last office and probably one of the good examples of how to make Nav work, it was 35 pst. search messages. One experienced that the Nav leader ended up protesting what he called irresponsible appropriations. The head of the Nav office in Kvinesdal, who is close by, did exactly the same thing, ended up protesting irresponsible appropriations. If that means that reality is the same, if that means that the appropriations are good enough, it doesn't feel like that in some municipalities. One sees that the municipalities, the counties and the KS say clearly and clearly in the form of letters to us or to the Council of State that one feels that the state is taking the potential gain out of the Nav reform too early. They call it a rank and feel that the state is stepping down on the number of employees, while the municipalities have to increase the number of employees in order to also be able to take over the tasks that the real state would have to do. There is a challenge with two guidelines, one with the state on one side and the municipalities on the other. But it also affects employees. We have a lot of thousands of Nav employees who make a great effort, and who in many ways are everyday heroes, because they do an important job to help people who have come into a difficult situation. But the efforts they make cannot help the challenges and frustrations they experience. One sees that someone chooses to quit, but one at least sees that there are many who experience a stressed work situation, and that goes beyond the cooperation. When employees experience that the state, or to the extent of the municipality, does not take seriously the challenges they face, they also experience that there is such an unsustainable situation that they feel that they are powerless to face the challenges. So my challenge to the Council of State is to show constructive impatience, how we can meet the challenges, how we can improve our cooperation, and how we can, on the state side, look at the challenges in Nav that are described in the municipalities and states. I just want to ask the Council of State: how will the Council of State proceed to improve cooperation between the municipality and the state so that users can get a better offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1525	The interpellant asks how I want to improve cooperation between the municipality and the state so that users can get a better offer. My opinion is that the cooperation between the municipality and the state in the Nav offices is consistently good. It is in the nature of the partnership that it is challenging. A number of practical challenges, cultures and approaches are being met when close cooperation is to be established between the State and the municipality. My clear impression, however, is that both the municipality and the state have an understanding of each other's roles and show the willingness to find good solutions. The dispute resolution mechanism established to resolve conflicts between municipalities and countries has been used for illustration only on two occasions. The fact that most Nav offices have elected one joint head of offices also underpins the positive attitude of the partnership. The vision of the Nav reform is to increase work and activity through labour rights and user rights. The Nav Offices shall provide coordinated assistance to the users of the Office through a coherent view of state and local authorities. The Nav offices shall appear as a unit to users. During the reform period, it has been challenging to ensure a sufficient focus on the objectives behind the reform. The reorganisation and improvement of the performance treatment on the State side have taken a lot of attention. The book Nav, which was presented on 20 January of this year, points out that the heads of the Nav offices can now return to the reform and that the introduction of work performance assessments and redundancy benefits have contributed to it. Furthermore, I have noticed the final chapter where two of the researchers give the following professional advice: ‘... if overall levels, from politicians and down, are able to show an awareness of their own ambitions on behalf of the Nav agencies, so that they are not assigned new tasks until they have begun to respond to the old ones, then the visions of the reform can be tested in practice.’ This does not mean that we are not going to do anything, but I believe that it underlines the importance now that we have to give the Nav offices the opportunity to develop and deliver and perform. I also see that the recent reforms, such as the introduction of work capacity assessments, provide a good basis for further developing the offer for the benefit of users. The interpellant refers to cuts in government employees at the Nav offices. It is true that several municipalities have signaled that they are concerned about reduced appropriations, although I may not say that this can be characterised as a Nav uprising in Kommune-Norway. The overall operational framework of the State of Labour and Welfare is laid down in the annual budgets and the framework of the State of Labour and Welfare must be assessed against both the tasks to be carried out and the overall budget line. During the reform period, the State of Labour and Welfare has been significantly strengthened. From the 2009 budget balance to the 2010 budget balance, the budget went up by 1.1 billion. kr. Fewer government employees at the Nav offices in 2011 are mainly due to a reduction in the level of action in 2011. When the level of action is reduced, the tasks of the Staff Regulations will also be reduced and the operational framework of the Agency will be corrected to this end. In addition, the State of Labour and Welfare has had a growth in ICT operating costs that the establishment must cover within the scope of the operation of the establishment. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has stated that the line in the building, such as the includes the Nav offices, has been significantly shielded once increased ICT expenditure has been covered. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has estimated that the savings in the district line in 2011 will reduce crews of about 350 to 400 year-olds. It is up to each county office to give priority to the use of resources between the different units such as the Nav Office, the Administrative Unit and the County Office. In total, there are about 9 000 annual works in the line. The State of work and welfare shall have resources to ensure that it is able to carry out its tasks and achieve the objectives set. At the same time, we also have to demand that the department can solve the problems effectively. It is a difficult but important balancing process to ensure an adequate framework for good resolution while at the same time ensuring pressure on the efficient use of public funds. It is particularly important when the State of Labour and Welfare manages as large Community values as it does. The establishment of pension units and administrative units are examples of organisational measures that will in the long term both increase efficiency and ensure equal treatment for non-user tasks. At the same time, Nav offices have been given the opportunity to concentrate more of their efforts on individual guidance and follow-up. In its question, the inter-pellant has shown that the burden on municipalities increases when government personnel are reduced. Municipal and State employees may perform tasks under each other's responsibilities. It's the very idea of the seamless Nav office. If municipal employees carry out more tasks in State responsibility than vice versa, they may be produced as a form of cost over-valuation from state to municipal. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has examined this in recent years. The studies show that in 2008 and 2009, municipal employees spent more of their working time on government tasks than state employees spent on municipal tasks. In 2010, however, the study shows that government and municipal employees spend the same amount of their working time on the other partner’s tasks. In my opinion, there is a clear sign that the partnership is starting to become more equivalent, not the opposite. It also shows that municipalities were flexible in 2008 and 2009, when the Employment and Welfare Act had major problems in the performance management. We also trust the municipalities in addition to this. The qualification program was started with an earmarked allocation. Once the Nav office is established in all municipalities, the money is included in the framework grant. I assume that municipalities use this increased freedom of action to do good social and preventive work, with a view to reducing the number of long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and ensuring that those entitled to a qualification programme are offered it. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there is ongoing contact between the KS and the Ministry on the situation in the management of labour and welfare, and that KS and the Directorate have more frequent practical cooperation. In the future, the Ministry, in cooperation with the KS, will consider how we can further develop the partnership and whether there is a basis for making changes. But as I started with: I think it is essential for both users and employees that the Nav offices now have the opportunity to continue working on developing the tools and working methods that the Nav reform provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1552	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm not going to claim that the Council of State has low ambitions, but I notice that the Council of State was very concerned about clarifying that things have to sit down, that one has to spend time and not necessarily come up with new measures now. There I know that my sense of reality is different. The Council of State says that when the level of intervention falls, there will be less to do. My experience outside is that there are many people waiting in line for action because they want to get back to work. My experience is that there are many employees in the Nav offices who have people they should have helped because they have made clarifications. They should have sent them on to measures, but they feel that they have no measures to send them to. It has not been said that the Nav offices have less to do. What I see as a challenge, and as I mentioned so far in my post, is for example. ICT system. One of the major areas in which the Council of State can do something to improve cooperation is ICT – to make a decision on investment in ICT, so that one can facilitate everyday life, so that employees do not have to operate with eight, nine, ten, eleven – or what it is – different computer programs, which are MS-DOS-based, or which at least do not cooperate, and which do not do a good enough job. And so, when I mentioned in my post that it was cut in government employees or transferred tasks, I guess I thought so much about the guarantee offices, because that one has seen in some states, is that when one cannot cut more government employees because there is a guarantee on the number of employees, they feel that they are being pressured on tasks, and that they have to solve tasks such as that. was on management before. I won't blacken more than I have to, but I still want to have a pressure on Nav, because there's so much that can be improved in Nav. There is so much one can do from the state side to be able to improve cooperation with the municipalities, because one thing is the users, one thing is the employees, and another thing is the municipalities – and the state has a responsibility for all three. So it's also, as I was in my post, a challenge that one has two guidelines. This means that employees in small municipalities such as has offices with three to four employees, each with an employer. They have different pay and working conditions. Finally, I will challenge the Council of State on that. Is that how the government wants Nav to be organized in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1565	I can assure the interpellant that I am very concerned about developments in Nav, and I am what the interpellant called constructively impatient. At the same time, I'm concerned that by pushing too much on the system now, I don't think we're going to succeed as we are. I have to put the good framework conditions in place for Nav to work well, but I also have to make sure that we continue to make good use of the community's resources. I have to stress – as I did in the post – that Nav has received significantly increased appropriations. During the period 2006–2010, Nav has had an increase in the number of yearly works of 360. So we have to hold on to the fact that this isn't a plant that's kind of hungry. At the same time, it's clear that the process you've been through, the expectations you've had for Nav, as I've said before, has probably been somewhat twisted up, and you've had an idea that this could be done quickly and painlessly. I think you should generally remind yourself that you have a tendency to do so when you want new reforms. These are things that can feel good there and there, but that can feel more difficult over time. With what I do as a back carpet, I'm very busy following Nav closely, but I also have to let – as I said – things get settled. I'm not going to do that by not doing anything. I would like to stress that Nav has basically followed the tracks they were going to do. The organisational reform was established when it was to be established. The first step in the ICT bet was finished when it was supposed to be. The pension system was finished when it was supposed to be. It's amazing – there were no exceedances on the ICT system. Now we're working on a new ICT system that's going to, and I fully agree with the representative in it, make it easier for employees, so they don't have to work on the x number of different systems, which at all have to be absolutely fundamental to implementing the whole reform. We're doing a KS1 assessment. I am particularly impatient, as the representative said, on that point, but I stress the constructive. If you hurry too much here, it'll come back in the next round. And we've seen that before. I'm very concerned that I'm going to have a good basis for making decisions about ICT, and then I'm going to get to Stortinget. I promise that this government will ensure that Nav has a good, forward-looking ICT system. I do not entirely share the views of the representative on the views of the employees. Of course, I feel that the employees are constantly concerned that Nav is not working properly, that it does not have the framework conditions they should have. But I also feel that the employees are very proud of their job and that they feel that things are going better in Nav. They have reduced the processing time, and now they are working to achieve the Nav reform. I feel that they are very happy and proud of it, and look forward to working more on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1580	I would like to thank the interpellant for the commitment to Nav. When many people would need more follow-up on their own and professional grounds, it's not popular with cut. Drown 3 pst. reduction in jobs is manageable but demanding. This can be particularly demanding because, at the same time, through the partnership with the municipalities, we have decided that the minimum crew should be three yearly shifts at local level. That means that the larger offices have to do a larger part of the cuts. The cuts Nav is now struggling with are due to better business cycles and, therefore, less need for urgent assistance from new job vacancies. The positioning resources in Nav fluctuate with unemployment. This is particularly important when increasing and extra effort is required. With regard to a policy based on the desire for everyone to join, it is also necessary to assess the criteria for maintaining and recruiting skills in order to increase an already high employment rate. We have an ambition to adapt welfare systems and services so that fewer change to sustainable social security benefits. Yesterday, a report was submitted on the number of persons registered, registered or posted by the labour market. The report provides a better understanding of the current situation and hence the basis for reforms. It is not certain that the automatic link between the volume of action and job opportunities is optimal. The effects of the financial crisis may be long-term in the form of multiple beneficiaries of redundancy benefits and social assistance. This also means that there is a greater need for follow-up. In an ambitious employment strategy, a main challenge may be to increase employers’ demand for workers who cannot provide 100 pst. at all times. It could require resources in Nav. Additional emphasis on employing disabled young people will require human resources. If we want a higher ambition than that 50 pst. by those who receive redundancy benefits, in the workplace, follow-up resources need to be strengthened. If we want to do something about 32,000 unemployed people wanting a job, they need better assistance. 58 pst. they do not participate in the labour market because of a lack of assistance from Nav. Nav cannot do the job alone, but in the future it must be the auxiliary device too high for employment. I therefore look forward to more initiatives to strengthen Nav in the future – not just to strengthen the partnership between the state and the municipalities, but to invest more and better in people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1593	I think the interpellant is raising an important debate. At the same time, there is a debate that has been in this house and in this room a number of times, and one might have wished that one had not had eternal repetitions of matters and debates. When you get those debates up and up again, it's because the conditions are not solved, and the conditions are not good enough for those who are going to have these welfare services, which are the users. If we go back in time, we know that there have been a lot of users who feel that they have been met with unworthiness in the Nav system. We're still experiencing it. At the same time, I record Nav saying that things are improving, and that things are getting better. Yes, we've also heard that every year, but nevertheless we see that the criticism from the Riksrevision gets stronger every year that goes. Then they say that yes, but the Riksrevision's criticism is the snow that fell last year. That's to some extent true, but the criticism comes year after year and gets stronger. The government can probably shake its head, but the criticism of the last national audit report, which was in force in 2009, was stronger than that in force in 2008. There's no doubt about it. In that case, the State Council has been given a completely different national audit report than the one we received at Stortinget. But what's important is how we solve these problems in the future. In the spring of 2009, we had a big debate about the crisis in Nav in connection with St.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009. A number of measures were then outlined, which were to be implemented and returned. Among other things, a review of the skills gap in Nav was to be carried out. My questions are, Is it done? How far have you come? When is the Stortinge informed about what has been done, and how far has it come? We have not been informed of this so far. Furthermore, it was also said that the interface had to be raised to a limit for what was to be allocated to local offices, versus what was to be in the administration. We know when we talk to representatives from Nav, that you've started doing that, and you've made some changes. What changes have been made is my question. When will the Stortinge be presented with a briefing and a review of the changes that have been made? Or is it that we should not be informed about it, considering that we have, after all, dealt with that matter? So for the most part – I think – that the interpellant picks up, and as I understand it, it's demanding that we have two hubs in the same hub – that is, one state and one municipality. Nav himself also points out that it is a major challenge to be able to have a partnership with 430 different partners. Can you imagine merging this partnership, getting a simpler and better organisation to ensure consistent management and a coherent philosophy and strategy for the functioning of the welfare system in Norway? I think that's important. So we know that Nav has been allocated considerable resources. The fact that some of these resources have been deducted from this state budget may not come as a surprise, because when we dealt with the matter in 2009, it was also said that this was an additional addition, and that it had to be expected that you would fall back to normal once the situation had normalised. But what we're seeing here is you're starting to decrease the number of employees. In any case, the point of skepticism is that the number of employees is reduced before the situation has stabilised. That's the real thing. So I don't think -- and that's the core of this -- that you solve the problems in Nav by driving even more people into the system. It's going to be in many ways the same as hiring more carpenters to build a house, but you don't give the carpenter nails and hammers. And as long as you don't have the tool, you can't do your job either. That's why it's incredibly important to have a job no. one for Nav is to ensure that an ICT system is in place to enable employees to do the job they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1615	I want to give honey to the interpellant, which brings up an important theme. But it's true, as it's said here, that this is a theme that's still coming to the Biggest. I think one of the reasons might not be so much what's in the state and municipality, but that this is primarily a matter for 2.8 million users every year. A good part of the users are making enquiries on the desks of individual representatives, regardless of which committee they are in. I can underline that. I think it's in special class those who are most intriguing. Now it does not have to mean that reorganization and reform are not working. I will be the first to agree that this has been very demanding. Everyone understands that, with everything that is to be implemented. But it's also that we have to think first of all about those who use this, who are out in the first line. Then I must say that I have heard several times in this type of debate from different governments – many have tried in this area – that there is a need for peace. It also ended the Council of State's intervention. I don't think she said, "Leave me alone." I think more she said that the system needs peace. But I don't think the system needs too much calm. Those who use it hope for a little bit more anxiety. They're probably hoping to see that there's a governance and some measures that can correct some of the distortions we've seen. I'm going to give the council a boost to have a number of good intentions, she's had in many ways. But I think it'll be a little too retrospective to write the whole story over and over again. We must gradually become, I think, more forward-looking on this, because there are perfectly obvious problems. The Council of State says that partnership is demanding. Of course, it is demanding – with all kinds of partnerships. But partnership is also by its very nature a positive factor. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the National Audit Office have repeatedly made some strong observations on this. The last time they treated it was probably a year ago. Then the Council of State promised to come back with analyses to be submitted to Stortinget. I do not know how far you have come with this, I do not know this work in detail. But I think that no matter what the Council of State must have promised the Committee of Control and Constitution or the Stortinget at an earlier time, perhaps the time has come to re-examine this, and by someone who looks a little bit more forward on what can be done for the users. We really can't have it this way, not because representatives shouldn't be bothered with this – it's their case – but the whole Stortinget agreed on the reform, and we also feel a responsibility for the government council to continue this with a little more dynamic progress than I think we have seen so far. Then I want to end with a theme that the representative Forsberg addresses, when he says that Nav cannot do this job alone. No, it's completely impossible because those people this is about – a large part of them – are going to work. They do not get into work without employers. That's exactly why I think Nav should also look at and use business in a different way, stimulating business – I know how they are involved – even stronger to contribute, to see what both parties can do; simply draw them closer to the work that the Storting has agreed on, namely to get more people out of inaction and into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1626	The Nav reform is the largest reform we have implemented in Norway. In addition, there is a very complex and major reform, because it involves cooperation between the government and the municipal sector, but also because it includes people at the most difficult points in their lives, namely when they are out of work, without income, they have become ill or there is something they need to help with in a situation where life is often difficult. That means this isn't a simple problem. That is why the matter has received a lot of attention, and it gets it every day. And because this affects people in such situations, people report from us, to the department, of course, and to Nav when things don't work completely as they should. And I think we have to admit that it hasn't always done that. So one negative meeting sits many, many, many times longer than 100 good. One of the bad examples is kind of the picture of how everything is and also often colors the meeting with the floor. It's a bit of this. But the minister pointed out that there is a lot of work going on now. There have been several books. There has been a mid-term evaluation. There is an evaluation of Nav. There was a book last year called ‘Labour inclusion’, and a book now called ‘NAV at a crossroads’, both of which contain information and a review of the Nav situation. I have a lot of contact both with users and with employees regularly – every day, I think I have to say. I want to describe the situation as very different and different. Many describe that things are now starting to work better in many places, and that the cooperation and the cultural change that have had to happen have started to work, and that you get a vi feeling. But it's clear that the vi-feeling is not so easy when you're still referred to as a municipal and state employee. I do not conceal that SV has wanted uniform management in the Nav offices. We still do that and we want it to go forward, and we think that at least it's a necessary step to get to this vi-sensus. Because it wasn't just that the Nav reform was going to get more people to work, but it was so that it would make sure that the most disadvantaged people could turn to one place and not be such a staf stick that fell into the ground many times, between different offices and agencies. They were to contact one Nav office, and one Nav office was actually supposed to assist them through the system, whether it was state-owned or municipal. There I think we have some left to go in many places. Then some of the interpellation has probably been triggered by this rather remarkable – I think – the automatic between the level of action and the crew. This is an automatic system that sits in the budget systems and has been there all along. I know that, because when I created my alternative budgets before and wanted to increase the labour market measures, I also had to increase the number of employees in what was Aetat at the time. It may have something to do with the measures that are cyclical, that is, those that go easily out and out of work, and where, to put it that way, there is less job related to the placement. But I think there's a good point in that it's not always that Nav gets less to do if you don't have the ability to communicate people who stand and both can and will, to. So that's where I think we have a problem -- to look at it. Then I'm also concerned that we should listen to the users, but I'm also concerned that we have to listen to the employees, because they have experience in how to implement these visions in practice. I feel that the employees are very dedicated to this task, but that they have some feedback to bring with them that we have to listen to. Last week I received feedback from employees that the Nav system still has the attitude that users are not allowed to call their case handler on these special units or administrative units. It has been said unanimously by Stortinget that it should not be so, and it has also been confirmed by the Council of State that it should not be so. I am sure that if such situations are cleared by the road, the satisfaction will also be much greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1639	The cuts that have now been made in Nav are due to a reduction in the number of sites for action. From 2008 to 2010, the number of response sites increased considerably, and therefore the staffing of Nav also went up. I think it is natural that when you turn up the activity in bad times, when there is a need for a strong effort, yes, I am glad that we also bring down something when the times improve, and the need for action places gets smaller. Like several others in the committee, and as it has also been mentioned before in this room, this summer I got the pleasure of being four days at a Nav office, at Nav Time. There I gained some experience that in many ways confirmed the impression that the Center Party and I have had of Nav. I met a lot of good employees. I met more satisfied users than I have read about in the Norwegian press since the Nav reform was introduced. Four days were not enough for me to find out who was employed in the municipality, and who was employed in the state. But in order for Nav to achieve its main goal of getting more people to work, there are three aspects I want to draw up. What met me on the computer front at Nav Time -- and the rest of the system -- was scary. Here, case handlers set up and plotted information that others had already provided. For example, a jobseeker had registered as an online jobseeker. The Nav employee came to work, registered that this was information that had been inserted, took a print of what was registered, and then punched it into the computer system. This reminds me of the time when we were running Commodore 64. The only difference is that Commodore 64 was a significantly newer computer than the computers that Nav has today. This has been a known problem for a long time, and that's not how we should have done something two years ago – we should have done something ten years ago. I am pleased that the Council of State has now taken hold of this, and that she is using the time necessary for Nav to have a robust computer system. Another challenge is performance. We are committed to adopting fair, accurate benefits. We don't want people to fall outside. This complicates the performance. This makes the diversity of benefits to which the Nav staff must relate very demanding. I think we have to live with it, but it's worth thinking about it, and it's worth focusing on: can we simplify the benefits further? A third relationship is sick leave at Nav's. It was possible to read this week in the Joint Organisation’s journal, the Fonts, that sick leave at one of the departments of Nav Kristiansand was 35 p.m. Then there is something serious wrong. Fortunately, this is not a representative figure, but it is worrying. What is positive is that when the committee recently visited the welfare centre, we were informed that sick leave is heading in the right direction. There is no doubt that the Nav reform is right. There is no doubt that Nav is still facing major challenges, and there is no doubt that we have a government council that is forward-looking and has an active attitude to get the Nav reform to be the success it is supposed to be. I need to stress on a general basis and to Nav that I am skeptical when I hear calls about several government employees. I do not think the problem with the Norwegian State is that it has too few employees. I think the problem is that there are too many rules and too many heavy-duty jobs. Then we have in this room, when we're out, also a responsibility not to contribute to black paint. The interpellant black-painted for ten minutes before he stressed that it is important that we not only black-painted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1661	I must be allowed to thank you for good participation and good posts, even though I overlook the last stitch that came from the representative Pollestad. I must also thank the Council of State for the second answer, which I thought was a bit interesting – she came there with many good points. But when she says that as politicians we have oversold the reform, I would like to remind you that it was perhaps the then State Council, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who was most eager in the election campaign in 2005, when the Workers' Party was supposed to solve all the challenges through Nav. But I agree with the council that the employees need peace, and that Nav needs peace, but I also agree with the Fleet that they don't need too much peace. My point is not necessarily to introduce new pension reforms or new redundancy benefits etc. My point is that there should be a simplification and not least that there should be a grip on ICT, or that there should be a grip on the guideline, in order to make it easier for employees. It won't create more unrest, but I think it will actually create even more peace for them. Then I took note of the comments from the representative Karin Andersen, whom I thought was very good. In fact, when referring to the number of employees, the cuts have also gone on ICT operations, not only on labour market measures. However, when labour market measures are mentioned, I cannot avoid commenting on them again: if Nav is to work, the labour market measure is one of the tools they need to have. If you don't have that tool, you can't get the same number of people working. We now see a cut in labour market measures. When, at the beginning of 2011, there were 61 000 measures and the government averaged 51 200 for 2011, there are 10,000 people currently on action, which should not be on action beyond the year. And to make the average work, you might have to go down to 45,000, that is, up to 15,000 people who are on the move today, which should not be in the future. It helps to weaken the quality of the hub and the quality of being able to get people to work. But I noticed that the Council of State promised a forward-looking ICT system. I think there are a lot of people who are looking forward to coming. Finally, I noticed that the Council of State did not respond to what she would do with the different guidelines. If the council has a chance to do so, I would like to challenge her again if she can say something about how she thinks when you find out in offices with three-four employees that you have two different bosses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1672	I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant again for addressing this issue, because I think we are completely in agreement that getting Nav to work as we want is one of the most important things we can work with. I record that it is said from some representatives that I am a little too retired in relation to this. Of course, you can discuss what it is to be retired, and what it is to be offensive. I have, after becoming the Council of State, received a review of Nav from an independent expert committee. They have concluded that the structure of Nav is a proper structure. In the context of the 2011 budget, I have presented a plan for what I am working on in relation to a number of follow-up points related to what the Committee of Experts presented. In the 2011 Nav Allocation Letter, clear reporting criteria have been established to report on what they are doing to follow up the actions proposed by this expert committee, including: how to organise the work. Then you can discuss what is black-painting or not black-painting. We're going to have a proper and sober relationship with what we're doing in Nav. I'm going to be the first to say that things can get better in Nav, but then you're also going to praise Nav for what they're doing that's good. If we don't go wrong. I repeat myself, but it can often be done because it can be useful: you have managed to get the organisational model in place in time, and you have managed to bring down the processing time. Then I can discuss with Robert Eriksson whether or not to interpret the Riksrevision's statements now as a improvement or not. Clearly, the Riksrevision did not criticise any of the old conditions, and that's very important. That means you get the order of what you're betting on. This is very basic. If we don't hang on to a wave that just makes us go in a negative spiral, and that's not what we deserve. Nav, as was also said by the representative from the Right, has 2.8 million users. This is probably very illustrative because, after all, we get a lot of things -- too many, I agree with that -- where it is focused on people not experiencing the meeting with Nav well enough. It's never good, but we have to kind of have a proper understanding of that reality, and I think we have. The ICT system is crucial. I'm working on it. In addition to that, I just want to say one thing about the measures: in 2011, we are going to spend significantly more money on measures than we have done in the past – that is, significantly more money on measures. This is because this government is committed to having effective measures and many more tailor-made measures related to job performance assessment and job redundancy benefits. I think that a debate on the number of actions alone is a siding in the debate we are going to have in the future to get people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1685	So the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1701	First of all, we can be happy that in our country we only have an unemployment rate of 3 pst. It's great and not at least a good starting point for getting a good community for everyone. Nevertheless, the percentage can't let us settle down so that we settle down on some groups. Unfortunately, I see too little drop in the youth group between 18 and 24 years of age. Yes, it's true that it has been a positive development for men, who have had a decrease of 4 pst. the last month compares with the same month last year, whereas there is an increase of 12 pst. for women during the same period. This is reason enough for a long time to focus on this group, because they're at an age when education should be in focus, and that one has to ask: what makes this group come into this situation? One may need to start with the beginning. Everything when a child is born is a lavish personal property and environment. It forms the basis for a good childhood and a good development in life. If that were possible, there would be more than just the Labour Minister's interpellation, but it is not possible. Here I refer to the Minister of Children, School and Education, the Minister of Knowledge, and general health includes the Minister of Health. Because it is precisely this cycle of development that causes individual experiences, illness and often alcohol to stop one from learning, or to give over and leave life to the public. For this reason, you have to have a holistic picture of why you get young unemployed, young people on disability benefits and redundancy money. Do we actually do enough for this group? We have many examples that there is activity around the country focusing on young people, and it is great – different projects related to so-called drop-outs in Hordaland, the New GIV project, individual municipalities with their own projects for so-called risky youth, and someone with even closer follow-up. But is that good enough? If there is someone who knows that every student who doesn't complete further training, society costs almost $1 million. kr in life support. I've been in contact with some young people who have chosen a life where they've become part of the percentage of unemployed that Nav refers to. Let's call a girl Linda. She has completed an apprenticeship for child workers and youth workers, but has not applied for further apprenticeship. It was too much for me, she says. I was tired of the school and was not sure if it was actually what I wanted. And so it was like several of my friends had stopped up, so we were kind of a bunch of teams that did the same thing. Now Nav pays me a flat and a rest of my life, so I can look at it. I have it really good now, so what should I stress with? Is this good social economy and not at least a proper quality of life for the individual, as for Linda in this situation? Another example is Runar, who has dyslexia that was discovered late. Because the shots between the different schools made it difficult for him to get the right help, he became insecure and a so-called hard student, which led him into the russian world and further into prison. The fact that Rune no is moving on in a positive direction in life, was person-dependent, he says. He met a former acquaintance who he had had as a temporary teacher, whom he gained confidence in, who followed him further in the system and supported him. This caused him to get back to believing in himself. The fact that he is still without permanent work after even training is because it is difficult to get into the labour market with a CV with many holes in it. It's hard to see that a person really wants and can do something. Had it not been for good friends and this teacher, he had given up again and certainly started running again, as he says. But he still has a certain hope that it will be done soon. I could probably have come up with more stories, but what's going on is often a rough background from the early ages of — intoxication, psychiatry and a few close relationships that you trust — and that you see some kind of infectious effect in such a situation. Some exceptions are, too. They are the ones who feel that they want to, but they encounter adversity in many different venues. They say that better guidance and follow-up before taking education had helped. Losing self-confidence and threatening oneself is more often the case at an early age. What, then, will start one for the further life? Not the best at any rate. As we know, young people don't always see the consequences of their choices until it's too late. This requires thorough guidance in the initial phase as well as in the follow-up when they are entering the pathways of education and working life. The future need for additions, especially in care professionals, is massive. There is also concern that the search for right-wing education, especially before the nursing and teacher training, is falling. There are also several people who are jumping off or taking a break from the right education — something you should include if you intend to do something about it. There's also a big difference between the schools. One should look at what the individual educational institution does differently from others and is good. It turns out that for young people who lose contact with the educational and school environment, the road to poverty, alcohol and other health problems is short. Of the many projects that have been started, it is clear that many have been a success and some have not. I believe that in any case it is important that all ideas are tested. What's bothering me is that it's a project. There is no self-sustaining response. So an actually equidistant distance in the future. It would be nice if the Council had said a little about it, and something about individual action areas. Norway cannot afford to have someone outside the labour market, and all possibilities must be open for those in the early stages of working life to pursue a profession or work for the benefit of society and the quality of life of the individual. What do the Councils of State think about this? And what action is and is being taken for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1722	The representative Reiertsen's questions are at the heart of future value creation and welfare construction. Ensuring a good relationship with the world of work is one of the most important things we do. I want to start with some facts. It is quite right, as the representative points out, that youth unemployment between the ages of 20 and 24 is higher than the unemployment rate of the total workforce. In February this year there were about 12 000 unemployed 20-24-year-olds in Norway. This implies an unemployment rate of 5.5 against 3 pst. for the labour force as a whole. Nevertheless, it is wrong to say that this group stands out from the fact that unemployment does not go down. Fresh unemployment rates show us that this group has had a decline in the unemployment rate from February last to February this year at 4 p.m. This at the same time as the total unemployment has decreased by 2 pst. Nor is it the case that young people automatically switch to different social security schemes and become long-term unemployed when they do not get into the labour market. Young people are more involved in education than others when the labour market situation becomes difficult. We also know that young jobseekers generally have short periods of unemployment and a lower proportion of the long-term unemployed than other age groups. Looking at the overall picture, Norway, as the representative mentions, has avoided high unemployment as a result of the financial crisis. Although there has been an increase in unemployment also in Norway, Eurostat figures show that we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Youth unemployment is also very low in Norway compared to other countries. This has not come about by itself, but is the result of an active and targeted economic policy. Yet, this is not a pad for the government, nor for Nav. All experience suggests that it is important that we meet young people with targeted measures at an early stage. Young people under the age of 20 who are outside school and work should therefore be offered job-oriented measures as soon as possible. We have clear guidelines that young people should be given priority when taking employment-oriented measures, and there is a strong focus on the follow-up of young people in the Employment and Welfare Act. We have to take into account that young people aged 20 to 24 often change between work and education in their search for the job they want. However, young people who remain unemployed after three months may need an additional effort to get into work and activity. Therefore, the Employment and Welfare Act provides a follow-up guarantee for young people aged 20 to 24. It shall ensure that young people who have been unemployed for three months or more have extended their follow-up with a focus on active job search, self-employment and motivation. After six months of leave, the action guarantee shall ensure the provision of labour-oriented measures for young people of this age group. These are important and targeted actions, which we continuously follow up and evaluate. Reports from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare show us that the target achievement of the two guarantee schemes is low. At the same time, we know that young unemployed people have a high priority in the counties and that very good work is being done for the youth group. This has led to uncertainty as to whether the indicators used to measure the achievement of the objectives of the guarantee schemes adequately reflect the work of the establishment for the guarantee groups. For this reason, the Ministry is now working with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to ensure a good implementation and appropriate measurement of the achievement of the objectives of the guarantee schemes. Although most young people are doing well, I attach great importance to helping those who are outside education and working life. These must have a well-adapted offer that helps them to return quickly to work or to education. Not all reasons for leave are equally obvious. Nevertheless, we know with certainty that many of those without work over a long period of time have not completed advanced education. Higher education is the safest way to ensure a lasting relationship with the world of work and the most important offer we have for young people. For this reason, the Ministry of Labour now cooperates with the Ministry of Knowledge to follow-up young people who fall out, or are at risk of falling out of high school. The representative Reiertsen shows that it is very worrying that applicants for teacher and nurse training have fallen considerably. And here, too, it's necessary to make a clarification. According to the Ministry of Knowledge, the total number of applicants for teacher training has remained virtually unchanged in recent years. There was an increase in the number of applicants for teacher training in the years 2007 to 2009, while the level remained stable in 2010. In the case of nursing training, there has been a reduction of 4.7 pst. from 2009 to 2010. However, the increase in the number of applicants in the previous years remains relatively high and is hardly considered to be very alarming. But I fully agree with the representative Reiertsen that it is important to ensure competent labour in the years to come, not only among teachers and nurses, but all sectors that need labour. This is why the government has also increased the number of higher education places in recent years. The value of being at work is not just about pay. It's about self-realization, responsibility, interaction with colleagues and feeling that you're contributing to the community. Making young people access to the labour market is therefore one of the most important things we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1748	Thank you to the Council of State so far for your answer. First of all, when it comes to teachers and nurses, I would like to say that it's also an important fact that they often don't carry out the years that you expect, three years today, so that you get a little drop-out on them too. Many young people have said something about the close follow-up of someone who supports them and gives them confidence, to get a good image and motivation. A project in Northern Hordland called the Los project for youth has been a success, one in which one enters early and has close follow-up, shows positive interest over time, care and has clear frameworks. One has a set that has both lured, threatened, motivated and followed, which in turn has led to good results. The main objective of this project is to coordinate challenges that young people at risk are entering from school and, where appropriate, from working life. But this is also just a project. But as long as you've found something that breaks this code, a well let it get stuck. The signatures have also looked at coaching, which one has used a lot of in our neighbouring country Sweden with good results. This measure also shows good results. I have received support in response letters from the Council of State that this is positive, but at the same time I would like to stress that our own follow-up action under the auspices of Nav is working. But is that good enough, and should one not look at several different measures, so that the most possible will again come to the right path in both education and working life? It may well have been reasonable that part of this work was done outside Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1757	According to the SSB's forecast, we are now facing a marked economic recovery. We know that there is a delay, that there is a time lag between the turnarounds of the economic cycle, until we can see this cover on the labour market. Therefore, the short-term survey we were looking at last year's summer will only now become a reality in the labour market. In view of this, we can expect an increase in employment and a reduction in unemployment in the future, and we know that this development will be particularly applicable to the youngest groups on the labour market, just to take it. So consistently, there's reason to believe and count that even the youngest groups in the labour market will notice a relief, even though, as I've said, we've already seen a decline in unemployment. So I'm very concerned about some of the things that the representative also addresses, that we need to be creative and good at specific actions in relation to the most vulnerable youth groups. One of the most important things we can do is to follow-up to get young people through high school. As I mentioned, I am now working with the Ministry of Knowledge to prevent high school drop-outs. One of the most important projects we have there is the project that is part of the New GIV, which is a big investment, and one of the most important things that it does is to provide motivation, because we know that poor motivation is one of the reasons why young people do not complete advanced education. This follow-up project shall, inter alia: facilitate the testing of training models combining Nav’s work practices with training from county councils. Combinations of practice and theory can in many cases show the benefits of taking education and giving motivation to completing secondary school. I think that some of this is the most important thing we can do, and I don't exclude many of the different measures, different types of projects, which the representative also mentions. I would like to stress that we know that looking at labour market measures and evaluating them, young people may be one of those groups with the least benefit from action. It sounds a little strange, but young people often do well themselves, they're out of work, but then they come back quickly. So the groups we're talking about here are the more marginal groups, which need something very explicit, and then I believe in all sorts of measures, but especially those related to getting young people through high school. The project that the Ministry of Knowledge is working on, I think, is absolutely fundamental in this regard. Then I want to draw a parallel to the debate during the previous interpellation, where the representative from the Right addressed just how important it is to cooperate with the ordinary business community. I very much agree with that. I also believe that one of the challenges for Nav is to try to get young people into different types of – call it – places of practice related to normal working life, rather than going on redundancy pay or other passive benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1768	Unlike young people growing up in many other European countries, Norwegian youth can largely be welcomed into working life on the day they leave school and education. With a unemployment rate of 3 pst. we are happy to see the mass unemployment that has hit Europe in the wake of the financial and debt crisis. In Spain, every other youth is out of work; in the United Kingdom, one in four faces closed doors to work. We see right now in many countries that young people who experience a society that doesn't need them stand up in protest and rage on the one hand, or bow their necks in apathy, deprived of all dreams and hope to stand on their own feet with work and income on the other. In our country, too, unemployment is higher in the age group below 30 years. 5 pst. of those working in this age group were unemployed in February. We also know that leave can lead to disability. This is why it is so important that all those who, for various reasons, need help on the way into work are caught up by the welfare system and are not left to themselves and their own destiny. That is why we have provided the Youth Guarantee, the Follow-up Guarantee and the Action Guarantee. This is why it is now working intensively to prevent high school drop-outs and to provide apprenticeships and various qualifications for those who need them. There is not one way into working life; there are several, just as knowledge and qualifications can be acquired in several ways. Because not everyone fits to sit on the school bench until the age of authority. When I grew up, there were many of my contemporaries who had enough trouble completing 7-year-old primary school. Then they went to sea, or began as showboys. That's what people became of them too! Still others became apprentices in industry or service industries, and they learned in practice. But working life is not like that anymore. The industrial worker has become a system operator, the seamen go to college and college. It is likely that, with increasingly high requirements, vocational training will have to be based on a sound theoretical basis. But maybe we've overly theorized vocational training, so that we actually close the door to many of the people who before passed the professional test after practical learning. That door must be opened again. The UNIK project in the Sande municipality of Vestfold is an example of this. Here the school has taken the consequences of a 30 pst drop. in the professional fields. Students who have worn out and have gone tired of school everyday, have had a new chance outside the classroom. All education is adapted to the individual student, and the results are impressive. 95 pst. by those participating in the UNIK programme have either completed secondary school or obtained an apprenticeship. It's useful in Sande, and it's useful in many other places. The qualification programme, which provides training for those who are most remote from the labour market, has also produced good results. Nevertheless: there are, and will always be, some who have lost their full or partial ability to work and who are unable to adapt to normal working life. That's why it's so important that we now get a disability pension scheme that makes it easier to commute between social security and work, where anyone who is capable of it and who wants it can also find a place in the world of work. It is particularly important for young people, but then we must have a working life that is capable of accepting them. My main concern is in a slightly different direction. In fact, I think it may be a lot more difficult to obtain a vocational education than a job in the coming years. To some extent, we already see that. It's obviously getting harder to get apprenticeship places in parts of the country, and it's really not that weird. Recruitment to important craft industries is now being carried out through extensive imports of labour. In mountain homes, the million huts are built by underpaid craftsmen from Poland and Lithuania, who pay neither taxes nor taxes to Norway. Who is it that can compete with such a thing? Local craftsmen lose their jobs, and if the weather breaks down, local craftsmen’s traditions will gradually disappear. It's the fasit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1783	There is a serious trend in such a highly educated society as the Norwegian one that so many young people do not get into the labour market. It's serious for the individual, and it's a waste of society's resources. It has been said in the debate today that we have low unemployment in Norway. Yeah, we got it. But it's not unemployment as we have to debate today, it's the threshold for entering the labour market, and that's the consequence of long-term unemployment for young people. You can ask what the reason for this might be. It's a complex picture, but it's clear that very many of those who want to get into the world of work, de facto, do not have the skills that work life demands. Some people have the skills, but the skills aren't good enough. So it's a failure in their basic knowledge, especially from high school. Nor should it be underestimated that several of them are from socially difficult circumstances. What do you do in such a situation, in the short and long term? Let me take it in the long term first: I am pleased that the minister points out the importance of completing high school as much as possible. However, it is as important as possible to complete secondary school, that as much as possible achieve the school’s objectives — what was once called the school’s objectives. It means in today's language usage that you actually have basic knowledge in the basic subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and English. What can you do in the short term? In several alternative state budgets, the right has proposed that funds be set aside to require the obligation of activity of those who are in the unfortunate situation of receiving social assistance. It has not been endorsed by the Red-Green Government. There is clearly a risk in such an advanced society as the Norwegian, at such a high cost, to make a wrong employment. That's why there's a great deal of anxiety we see, to say it a little bit mild, that the trade movement and the red-green government are doing their utmost to put chains in the wheels of the manning industry, which have helped many people into working life. I dare remind the minister that unemployment is the root of all evil. If young people stay out of work and get reduced life income and in the worst case stay outside permanent, social distress is right around the corner. It must not happen, and to the extent that it is unavoidable, it is absolutely the last resort.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1796	It could be tempting to remind the representative of Elves that, in my view, the right-wing policy is at least the root of greater differences and of a working life that makes it even more difficult for those we are talking about now to get foothold on it, because the Right wants more temporaryity, less measures against social dumping and a tougher working life, where those who have the most difficulty have to have it even more unsafe. I don't think that's a good solution. But I will praise the interpellant. It's not many times I disagree so little with the Progress Party. I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, for this is an important matter. But it's not about getting more temporary employment. It's about all the things we're doing, namely a better child protection, ‘Jobing against bullying’, a more practical and relevant secondary school and high school. For example, this is a case in point. on a new, good student funding scheme for students with disabilities. It is about the important cooperation that is underway between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Knowledge relating to the New GIV and about providing students with a relevant and good training course. I am probably among those who don't always go into the alarm clock when young people don't finish high school on a straight track. I know that there are a lot of people who can find other ways through both school and working life, both to good competence and to a solid and good life. But what is extremely important – as the representative of Gullvåg also had in mind – is that we have to be extremely careful so that we do not stand up to the fact that large youth groups feel that they are not members of society, but that they belong to them, that they are adults who see them, and that we have arrangements that are appropriate when the ordinary arrangement is not appropriate. Therefore, I would like to mention initiatives taken by the growth companies, where they now, together with the Østfold County Municipality, have in place mechanisms that allow for the drawing of learning contracts for students who are unable to carry out a normal apprenticeship but who need an adapted scheme. When they implement the scheme, they have proof – and they are proven not to be drop-outs, and they have skills that the workforce needs. We need a lot of employees in the future. We need child and youth workers, we need carers, we need pre-school teachers and assistants in kindergartens, and we need cleaners – which we just discussed. There are many jobs that are useful in the future and that we need to ensure are safe, good, reasonably paid jobs to which it is possible to recruit people. So the interpellant said that it was important to be able to cooperate with others on good manners, and that some of these could be short-lived projects. Yes, I share the frustration of the interpellant over this, because I have been involved in both running projects and evaluating them, and they have been good, but they have not been any of them – so you haven't been able to implement that work method in normal work, or still with it, because it's a project. So I agree. That's why I have over a long time, for example. Work very closely with the mob project in Rogaland, which is proven to be a very good success factor in capturing what they also define as mobs – but that means, as the president knows for sure, popular – you kind of take the grievances, figure out what they want to do, take the dream seriously and help them through the system. And these are people who stand through and gain competence. There are a lot of other things that have worked well. This week I was in Larvik with social entrepreneurs, who I also have great faith in as a possible way of getting involved when the usual system somehow doesn't give you any connection, or you feel that it has become a system that doesn't help you in such a way that you feel at home. I also think it is very important that both high school and nav, who are supposed to help and guide young people, get a lot more relevant knowledge of work. I feel that is a defect. Obviously, it's also very difficult to guide young people into becoming something they don't know what is, and especially if those who work in Nav or at school, don't know what it is, and know that it exists. So getting good guidance from both school and Nav is very important for more people to succeed and get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1811	If we look at the OECD countries, we see that Norway, together with Denmark, has the highest level of professional participation of all countries. At the same time, we have the lowest unemployment rate. Also in the case of youth unemployment, Norway has more uplifting figures to refer to than many other comparable countries. That is my starting point for entering into this debate. Nevertheless, we should not underestimate the unemployment rate among young people. Unemployment between 18 and 24 years of age results in the loss of valuable experience compared to others of the same age, and it is in this period that one should establish, both in private and in the labour market. I want to get into two groups of young people outside of work. I'm concerned about the development of young people who are disabled because of mental disorders. There's no large group, but there's a group in growth. This is worrying, not only for those who fall out of work, but also for society, because we will need all the labour we can get. We can't afford to lose people at an early age in the labour market. I believe that this is how far we as society have too easily given up young people who are mentally struggling. Unemployment benefit has been a sleep cushion for a society that sees that there is a lot of work involved in tackling young people’s problems. Giving young people disability is and should be the last resort, and everyone deserves follow-up. Just to underline it, there is a clear condition that there should be a reduced working capacity as a result of illness, injury or suffering before people become ill. It's important that we don't make the inconvenience of a sleeping cushion. We have to be better at following up these young people. This is why both the new unemployment rate currently being worked on and presented in April is important, and the government's employment strategy will also be very important. The next theme I, like several others, am concerned with, is the drop-out in high school. We must aim to leave high school as much as possible and be equipped to participate in the labour market. It may be too late to focus on these young people when they are first in the job queue. We have to tackle the problem earlier, and we have to focus on education. With the promise of knowledge and Kristin Clemet's ideology, the school was further theorized. Many people who are going to study a subject experience that in the first year there will be jumps and jumps with a little bit of each. On Sunday 6 March, Dagsrevyen reported that six out of ten students starting construction did not complete this course. Then you have to ask yourself, is there something wrong with the students, or is there something wrong with the school? The party wants a more practical school that catches up both the theories and the theories. It's like if you have problems swallowing two hours of math, you don't get any better in math if you get four hours. If you're good at math, you'll get better at double the amount of teaching. What's important is that we help more students get the opportunity to complete high school. We need a variety of measures. I have said it before, and I say it again: I am glad that the Council of State has shown a great commitment to the matter. The representative of the Right said unemployment is the root of all evil. I believe it is a wrong entry point. I think we should focus on the value of work, on the joy of getting our own salary, on the joy of creating something and on the joy of contributing to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1834	First, I have to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue. We can work together to find new proposals and concrete measures to prevent youth leaving the job. The interesting thing is that in the long term the problem in Norway is the lack of labour, but it helps those who are unemployed today, little. As one speaker has pointed out earlier, there is much worse beyond the borders of the country. There are many more jobless people in Europe than in Norway, but it also does not help those who are unemployed in Norway. We know that increasing youth unemployment also leads to more young people falling out of work. The trend shows that more and more young people are experiencing drug problems or mental problems, and they are facing growing difficulties in reentering the labour market. The longer an unemployed person goes, the harder it is to get back into activity, and young people without high school exams will be able to face major challenges in their adult life. This can create huge social differences. The government seems to be satisfied - or a little bit paralysed. We need a policy that is offensive to youth unemployment. I tend to discuss this, and then I tend to say that one doesn't need a guarantee on a paper, but one needs to create jobs. The Christian People's Party wants a new policy to make it easier to get their first job and prove that one is good for something. Then you also need a new policy for temporary employment, because we know that temporary employment can be a gateway for many young people to a permanent job. Of course, this has to be done wisely. Most enterprises in Norway are small, and for the Christian People's Party, it is important that changes to the Working Environment Act are made to make it easier for small businesses to dry out employing more people in permanent jobs. In Finnmark, 168 people were available in January. 21 of these 168 under 20 had completed high school. We see an increase in the number of young jobseekers. The common denominator for them is that they have a lack of advanced education. That means that the school needs to be better adapted. It is necessary to facilitate the provision of training to those students who are strong in practical subjects who place more emphasis on the qualities they are good at. Several have been in on the drop-out. Here we might have one of the most important fights to avoid the kids getting out of work. Another important measure that I think could have been assessed is: when young people drop out of high school, it is that the county council is still getting money for them, and I would ask the council to think about whether she should not buy some money, for example. to Nav, from the county. Because when the students drop out, I think it is in many ways wrong that the county council still gets the funds. What about getting into such a system? First, it gives an incentive to the county and schools to hold the students at school and make an extra effort for those in danger, but second, it can also create some resources that can be used for example. working with companies to get young people to work there. Then we also have the apprenticeship system, which others have been involved in – being able to take part in. It will help those who have dropped out of school, or who are in danger of doing so, to complete at least a little bit, so that they have some evidence. Because we all know that if you have some papers to show you, you'll be able to get a job more easily. Another area that is important is the apprenticeship system. Getting an apprenticeship is incredibly important. If you don't get the apprenticeship, but you have to go to school, then the chance of falling outside is a lot bigger. There's a special public responsibility, because we know that there's a lot of private companies that actually do a good job on this, while public authorities and municipalities can get even better. We also know that there is a need for that kind of place in the public domain. One last suggestion, which I think is good, and which the Christian People's Party thinks is good, is to remove the employer's fee or at least lower it for the apprentices. Providing companies with an incentive to employ more apprentices will help fewer drop outs and more people get an education, or an apprenticeship to get a job test and get papers that they can do something. But the important thing is at least that we work together and make arrangements so that you avoid getting more people out and getting more people back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1862	The regulatory period is now over, but the President will propose that we finalise case No. 8 before we go to the ordinary pause. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1866	Before I entered the Stortinget last autumn, I was the rapporteur in a municipality in Buskerud. One of the most enjoyable assignments for me at the time was to hand out a letter to the students who had passed the exam. One thing was to hand out a well-deserved letter, another thing was to experience that pride and the joy these young people radiated as a result of well-work done, well done school. What was underlined by their language the next time was that they had become something, in the sense that they had an identity – to themselves, but also an identity that they, in a fine way, could describe to their surroundings. Just getting a foothold is one of the things that this interpellation is all about, and that the interpellant takes up in a deserving way. We have heard many in articles describe the importance this has for society – and that importance, of course, is great. But to the right, there's also a deep human side by this topic, because it just has something to do with identity, it has something to do with pride, it has something to do with footholds in life. If you lose your foothold at this age — between 18 and 24 years old — we can unfortunately say with a great deal of probability that you will find the same people a few years later in various kinds of statistics, where you either live on public benefits and social security, or have otherwise come up with a track that neither gives identity, belonging nor pride. That is why, of course, it is important that we do what we can from society to ensure that as many people as possible in the 18-24 age group get the necessary foothold, and then we have to coordinate. The Council of State naturally points out that Nav has an important role to play, and that will also be the case for an overall increase. But I missed some of the broad efforts that can also be mobilised outside the Nav system. I'd like to mention the municipalities. Local authorities have a lot of knowledge and can take many local measures to ensure a foothold for those concerned. Several of the previous speakers have also pointed out that the county has an important responsibility in relation to secondary schools. In our view, the ministries need to coordinate their efforts. The state councils were very much involved in business, but we believe that business should have an even greater role and responsibility to help raise these young people. For the Right, the voluntary sector is also important. Charitable organisations, private schemes and social entrepreneurs can all be given a joint responsibility to bring this about. I'm on the Justice Committee, and I would also like to point out that the state as an educational institution has a direct responsibility. Every year, more than 400 police students are trained, and just a few weeks ago, 60 of the year’s graduates were still out of work — in a field where there is a great need. They have a specialist education that they don't get to use – 60 pieces, just to take it as a concrete example of the state's direct responsibility. Now it's not on this Council of States' table, but it's on the government's table, as a common responsibility. Finally, my main message is that we do not need to base the measures for this age group on shippers; we need to coordinate the measures better on the public side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1881	Thank you very much to all those who have been involved in the debate. What the debate shows is that many – all, in fact – are concerned that this group will have a good life and a good working life. I'm very happy about that. No one's allowed to work on this. Everyone has to work on it. I want to go a little bit into the different points of view. The representative Pollestad is talking about disability and mental suffering. Yes, it must be possible for one who has mental disorders, not to be without the rest of his life. They actually have their good days, their good times. Then you have to give them a chance to work. It applies to both public and private employers. The representative, Andersen, was also interested in a lot of interesting things. It's not always I'm so very much in agreement with SV, but I'm very happy to be there in this case. That's what I thought was very positive. The representative, Gullvåg, is talking about a society where no one needs them. Yes, that's why it's so important that we have to do the best for our young people, we actually use them very well. It's very important. We need to work together. The last representative, Mr. Werp, was involved in cooperation. Municipalities, county councils and businesses have a huge responsibility. Finally, I would like to say to the Council of State: I thought it was very good that the Council of State was positive that one had to be creative. It's important, and there's a lot of projects around that are very good. But I hope they don't beaches by just being a project. Governments also include cooperation with the ordinary industry. That seems to me to be very important – the more people who care, the more good we can get. Then I want to challenge the Council of State a little in relation to the project that a government budget for 2011 on involuntary part-time work. That added another $25 million. kr. It was very positive. The party of progress supports it. Why not set aside funds for just such projects for young people, so that the business community, municipalities and county councils can bring projects if they get a handshake from the government, preferably of $25 million. kr or more? I'm going to throw the challenge on. But again, thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1900	I will be allowed to thank the inter-pellant and the debaters for a very important debate. Although we have a totally paradisaic leave in Norway compared to other countries, there are too many people who do not get into normal working life at the time they do it. Now I think one of the most important things we can do is to have an analysis of why it doesn't happen. If we're just talking about this as a very high unemployment rate among young people, it's first of all a mistake, because we don't have it, but we need to have very targeted measures. One of the things we know is that completing high school is one of the most crucial things. There we now have – in my view – good projects going on with the Ministry of Knowledge. I'm glad that the representative himself said that part of these questions really belongs to another Council of State – just to stress that I don't have all the details in part of what's been up here, under the skin. But something that Gullvåg's representative was also working on is getting a little less theoretical averaging on some of the education to motivate young people to complete high school. And then we have something that worries me a lot, and that's the increase you have -- it's about a very small group, but it's a big increase -- related to young people who are incapacitated. We know that there are mental disorders among young people that are probably the main cause of this. This worries me a lot, and I think we're just dealing with that group that needs to know more. We need to know more about why we get an increased incidence of this kind of suffering among young people, but we also need to think new and different. I meet every opportunity to get that group integrated and not give up at too young an age. It's one of the most important things we can do when we're going to present a new failure message. Then I want to say one thing in the end, and it's about temporary employment. It was underlined by one of the representatives from the Right how important it is. It is said, and the representative Ropstad also said – we know, it was said – that when young people can enter temporary jobs, they get a party in the workplace. We don't know that, we know on the contrary that there is no evidence that it works that way. That's what we know. We know that from the OECD, we know that from Sweden, and we know that from the countries that have tried it. Because: If you say that young people in general should be able to be employed temporarily – and we are now talking about very marginal youth groups we want to get in – who do you choose when to hire you, and everyone can be hired temporarily? It is not chosen for those who have mental problems and difficulties and who have not completed higher education. You pick the one that's initially tipped top. You get young people in temporarily, and then you get a job market for temporary jobs. Those outside, it doesn't get any easier compared to others. In this case the outsiders may find it even more difficult, because they can be pushed out of the labour market when the employer so wishes. So I believe and believe very strongly that temporary additions are not the way to go in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1914	Case No. So 8 is done. The vote will now be adjourned, and the sitting will be resumed at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16/14. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1928	The size continues the handling of the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1942	Prop. 26 L for 2010–2011 refers to changes in the Mineral Law, i.e. the collection of periodic penalty payments and criminal charges. This is a technical change necessary for the State Recovery Centre to be authorised to make compulsory collection of both fines and fees after the entry into force of the new Mineral Law. The amendment will not have any administrative or economic implications. A unanimous committee agrees with the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1947	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2812]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1963	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1972	In connection with Prop. 39 L for 2010–2011, Amendments to the Act on Innovation Norway, a Joint Committee is in place to modify the service period of members of the Board of Innovation Norway’s main board from four to two years, and that the Act on Innovation Norway § 15 is amended accordingly. It will provide flexibility while not hindering the continuity of the Governing Council's work. Furthermore, the Committee agrees with and agrees with the need to clarify certain paragraphs in the laws so as to expressly allow for a district guarantee scheme. This need was seen by the implementation of shared ownership between Innovation Norway and the county municipalities. The Committee's recommendations also apply to existing district-right risk-loan schemes. It will be clear from the changes in the laws that the company can finance the business through loans, guarantees and subsidies from the county councils and other public operators. Preclamations in the laws also indicate that local authorities § 51 are not liable for indirect guarantees offered to the company by county councils. Law regulates responsibilities arising during day-to-day operations. There is also a joint committee that proposes to remove the transitional rules, and we welcome the linguistic changes proposed. The evaluation of Innovation Norway has been on the horizon, and the cases will come to the European Parliament for treatment. Then we will all have the opportunity to come up with a point of view and discuss Innovation Norway in conclusion. Then we'll also have what the hearing authorities have said. Today we are discussing the legislative changes, and, as I said, there is no misgivings about the proposed changes or other proposals for decisions in the laws. However, the minority has an additional proposal in the form of an order for the government. I'm assuming that the minority is doing well for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e1989	The Christian People's Party, like others, aims at Norway being the world's most innovative and innovative country. Innovation and economic development release resources that can be used for other societal purposes. New and established small businesses are central — without them stopping Norway. Therefore, in its 2011 alternative budget, the Christian People's Party prioritises more funding for innovation. We increased support for innovation actions through the BIA, Innovation Furniture, innovation and industrial development through the SIVA, research and technology development in the marine industry, value creation measures in agriculture, seed funds for initial investments and increased access to risk capital to Innovation Norway, so that new projects in small and medium-sized enterprises can be funded. Innovation is probably the main driver of the development of society. In the last 200 years, the world has experienced an economic growth without parallel in history. Growth has led to an increase in living standards to a level that few thought was possible just a generation ago. The manner in which the increase was made has been accelerated. It would have been intolerable for most people to go back to the standard of living in e.g. 1979 – without the Internet, mobile phone and reasonable air travel, to mention some changes we have experienced in the last 40 years. These developments are the innovative and innovative souls behind them. The development of new and innovative ideas is often useful for more enterprises than only those developing them. However, the development of the idea can often involve a greater risk than the available investors can take. Therefore, such public project support could enable the developer to also take into account external effects. The Guarantee Facility managed by Innovation Norway ensures the financing of projects where the risk is greater than the risk that available investors are able to take. In addition to providing guarantee schemes and other funding assistance, Innovation Norway also provides its expertise and expertise. This contributes to both improving the project and ensuring the progress of the project. The Christian People's Party is in favour of any proposal that can improve the conditions of Innovation Norway and make the guarantee scheme more flexible and fairer. The proposal currently in place in the Storting will provide important clarifications on the allocation of responsibilities in and clarification of the basis for the guarantee scheme. It makes the Christian People's Party positive. When it comes to changing the term of office of the Board members of Innovation Norway from four to two years, we believe that this is a good solution. It provides greater flexibility than the current solution, nor should it compromise the continuity required by a government, as there should be no obstacle to being re-elected after two years. When Innovation Norway also supports the proposal, I see it as completely unproblematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2006	Prop. 39 L is also a case in which the Committee is unanimous. However, the Right and Advance Party have, in their joint comments, referred to an evaluation report on Innovation Norway, which was prepared by Econ Pöyry in the summer of 2010. We assume that during 2011, the Stortinget will be presented with a separate case with a review of Innovation Norway in terms of both organisation and instrumentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2011	I guess the very thing is okay. The Government proposes to change the term of office of members of the Board of Directors of Innovation Norway from four to two years, in accordance with the provisions on the term of office of members of the Board of Directors in the Shares Act, the General Shares Act and the State Enterprise Act. This requires a change in the Act on Innovation Norway § 15. A two-year term of service will provide greater flexibility for owners to influence the composition of the Governing Council. At the same time, the proposal does not prevent members of the board from being reappointed after the end of the two-year period. The government has, among others: in the context of the implementation of shared ownership in Innovation Norway and the proposal of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to set up a new district-oriented guarantee scheme, the need to clarify individual paragraphs of the Act. We therefore propose amendments to Sections 6, 8 and 9, so that the law expressly provides for a guarantee scheme. The clarification also applies to the existing district-oriented risk loan scheme financed by county municipalities. The government also proposes some updates and linguistic changes to the law to make it more accessible. These changes have no material significance. I am pleased that the Committee supports our proposals for amendments to the Act on Innovation Norway. I have also noticed that the Committee is aware that the evaluation of Innovation Norway has been at the hearing and that they are looking forward to the Stortinge case being examined. The government is concerned with the certainty and effectiveness of the commercial instruments and that there is an appropriate division of labour between the various public operators. The evaluation of Innovation Norway and SIVA, together with the consultation rounds, has thus provided the government with important input into how the instrument should be further developed in order to better adapt to the future needs of industry and contribute to achieving the objective of innovation and economic development. In order to provide an additional basis for decision-making, the Ministry of Industry and Trade now implements, inter alia: an own evaluation of the international activities of Innovation Norway and a socio-economic analysis of the impact of the overall public funding of the travel life initiative. We will also publish an external mission related to the organisation and financing of different types of innovation companies as part of the follow-up to the evaluation of SIVA. Overall, this will provide a good basis for the government to say something about the need for further development of Innovation Norway and SIVA. It is clear that we will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner in the relevant matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2032	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2035	It was only for the last information that came from the Council of State. He then says the same thing as the majority says, that he comes to Stortinget with a case about Innovation Norway. But then I understand that the department has started a lot of work as well, both international and other things. Then I would like to know: is it going to delay the matter that we get to Stortinget? Is this going to go in there as well? And can the Council of State say anything about the time horizon for when this is coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2040	Now I said well in my post that we're coming back to the Stortinge «in an appropriate way». If it means that there is a separate case, notification or proposition about Innovation Norway, no decision has yet been taken. There are also many other opportunities for the Committee to discuss Innovation Norway. This international business evaluation and evaluation has now been launched after the initial evaluation, for example. because we thought this was not well enough illuminated in the large evaluation. So, in that sense, we think it makes sense to make proposals for the Storting when we see the whole thing, although it does not prevent things we already see in the first evaluation from being brought to the Stortinge, for example. in relation to the budget proposal for the autumn, if applicable. So we take things in order and we will present them to the Storting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2047	I think that at least the vast majority of those who have followed debates and matters ahead of it have seen that the evaluation of Innovation Norway will come as a matter of its own with a broad debate and with proposals for decisions, for amendments to decisions etc. I'm a little worried when the Council of State says that a little bit of it might come in connection with the budget for the autumn, that is. it is not certain that the evaluation will be made at all during the harvest. At least the Council of State should take into account that it should come as a matter of its own, for this is a very important instrument. It's very important that it doesn't drown in a number of other things and that you lose a part of that debate. I hope at least that the Council of State can take it with it. I also ask that the Council of State may elaborate a little more on what he means by ‘appropriately’. Does the Council of State, at least as a starting point, intend to come up with a separate case on the evaluation of Innovation Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2052	I have to repeat what I said, that it has not been decided whether the most appropriate thing is to present your own message or a proposition, or whether it is to take it in other contexts. I believe that, among other things, depends on the extent to which changes are likely to be proposed. We're not ready to conclude that yet. Now that doesn't mean there's going to be any things in the budget, a delay. On the contrary, the budget is the first matter to be submitted at the start of the harvest session, and during the spring we will hardly be able to present and deal with an Innovation Norway case. So it has to be happy for the Storting if there's any elements in the budget, because that's the fastest thing we can do, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2058	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2812]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2077	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2086	I will first briefly address the contents of Document 8:14 S for 2010–2011 on change of ownership in small and medium-sized enterprises and then for the view of the majority. We are all here together with the proposers in the important role of small and medium-sized enterprises in Norwegian society, like that one looks at how one can better facilitate the growth and development of today's and future small and medium-sized enterprises, including the challenges of generation change, where the goal must be a good change of ownership. The proposers indicate that the level of ownership change for SMEs is large and ask for a strategy for ownership change for SMEs. This work is being started and put into a holistic perspective. One of the themes of the Enterprise Policy Strategy for SMEs is precisely ownership change, including generation change in enterprises. When the proposers conclude that they want a change of course in Norwegian industrial policy, I think there is reason to stop a bit. The red-green government just made a change in course in 2005, away from a business-neutral policy and over to an active industrial policy. The red-green course change has led to 300,000 more jobs. 200,000 of these jobs come from the private sector. This change in course must be continued and reinforced – do not reverse the full focus on tax cuts, as the proposers do. Then there's one thing that's not in goal, even though the wealth tax is made more fair and accurate, among other things. for monthly increments in the bottom. The inheritance fee is also made more fair. 90-95 pst. by all taxable persons, the inheritance tax is lower today than they did before the government of Stoltenberg. In order to facilitate the implementation of generational shifts in smaller family businesses, the red-green government preserved parts of the stock abat for unlisted axles and parts for the calculation of the inheritance tax. The interest-free allowance scheme for the generational change in family holdings has changed from seven to twelve years and covers all enterprises. This is good. I would also like to briefly mention the law on reporting obligations in the event of the closure of a business, the conversion law, which provides for the possibility for any interested party to discuss whether it is possible to purchase the company in order to drive it further. The right of discussion with a view to further operation and possible takeover of activities that have been assessed is also included in the main agreement between the LO and the NHO for 2006-2009. Several of the challenges that proposers are looking at here, I am not going to miss out on, but on the contrary, I am going to include in a holistic assessment that industry policy, including a generation change, should be part of a good, active industrial policy with good governance and good framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2105	First of all, I would like to promote the proposal that the Progress Party is in favour of. The welfare community in Norway is based on the fact that someone creates values and services, sells them, taxes on profits, gives and creates new jobs and further develops the business that you have, regardless of whether it is large or small. All jobs are equally important because they are part of building up under just the well-being we have and also depend on in the future. Then you can discuss how much the individual should contribute, and in what way. Therefore, it is important that there is a transparent and orderly regulation, that we have a framework with which to live, and not least that we have predictability. Therefore, it is important for such issues as this one today, Document 8:14 S, which takes into account the change of ownership of small and medium-sized enterprises. All these companies alone account for approx. half of the value added in Norway. For all these owners, it is of the utmost importance to pursue a business-friendly policy and a fair tax policy. Very many companies are facing a generational shift, which will always happen. But today's society, with the ability to succeed and/or get a life full of experiences and quality of life, is completely new and different than it was for the generation that is considering joining today. Therefore, society must constantly consider organising a new generation of business owners. The party to the progress has, throughout all years, done what they can do for the very purpose of caring for this important asset and its owners, and not least its employees. The Progress Party has, through debates, interpellations and proposals in Stortinget, county councils, municipalities, etc. promoting issues that highlight the situation, as well as making improvement proposals, in order, inter alia, to: profitability and time-use shall be as accurate as possible. The progress party is concerned that the people who sell their life's work also get something left for this, and that not so much disappears in taxes and taxes. In order for new ones to be able to take over, there must also be someone who wants to sell. Therefore, society must not only care for buyers, as the government wishes, in the sale of agricultural properties with a maximum price limit, but also take care of both parties. The buyer and the seller are equally important actors in this process. Back to the actual change of ownership: this will increase in the number of years to come. It's quite natural, as people want to work shorter or work less than before and enjoy old age differently than before. Another point is that parents want to give their children a previous start in the company than they themselves got. Here, there's a big difference now in relation to just a few decades back. Very many of the ownership changes are within the family, and the transfers are also different. While in the past there was only one of the new generation that took over, there may now be several children taking over the enterprise together. So here it has to be easier to form, for example. an AS or get another form you want, on the company, and the inheritance fee must be removed. The same must be true of taxes on wealth on working capital – this is precisely in order to safeguard the new generation of drivers. Many companies also face excise duties that competitors in other countries do not have. This, of course, creates a competitive disadvantage for us. Simplification of, inter alia: reporting and an oversized form fields are another way of improving the daily lives of businesses. Today, a relatively high amount of time is spent on administrative tasks rather than producing and developing new products. Many companies are struggling with a shortage of capital to meet tomorrow's competition. This may have many reasons, but if one manages to create a greater faith in the future, capital access will also increase. Most of us will have security for invested funds and preferably profit from the investment. This is what brings innovation and innovation. In the case of public sector instruments, this needs to be changed and improved. It may seem that there are many political peculiarities that characterise the innovation process. Here I am thinking about gender, type of production, geography, etc. It has to become completely independent of all of this and be neutral regardless of, for example: place of residence. The most important thing must be that we get results and results that last into the future. The question of whether or not you will receive support must depend on the quality of the idea and the ability to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2136	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2139	There's little disagreement about the facts here. A lot of businesses, maybe as many as 40 pst, are facing a change of ownership over the next ten years. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State in its response to the Committee agrees with the problem description. It is gratifying that the rapporteur also gives a favourable opinion on the problem description. It's positive and becomes even more positive if we're going to see concrete results of the intentions. The work is in progress, says the case rapporteur, but for the time being I understand from the Council of State's letter that this is at the conversation stage of these councils that the Council of State has, and we have seen what, for example. Olav Thon thinks about these advices. But it's fine if this can be put into practice a little bit more, and that you take this problem into account in what you're working with. I want to talk a little bit about the changes in ownership in family-owned businesses, and there is often talk about generational shifts in thousands of private businesses across the country. The level of taxation is a significant barrier to changes in ownership, especially in the case of changes in generations. The inheritance fee is often a hard one, although improvements have been made. But the annual collection of owners of enterprises by means of taxes on wealth, whether it be profits or not, contributes negatively. Perhaps the most important thing about this – and there has not been any mention of it – is to facilitate ownership by making participation easier for employees. Very many changes in ownership are made by employees who take over. Then it is important to facilitate it at an early stage, so that the ownership changes can be managed in a good way for the company. I noticed that the Soria Moria statement writes something about having to look at this. I'm waiting in suspense, along with both employees and owners around, for a concrete explanation of this, because I think it's important. That is one of the most important things you can do – including inheritance taxes and property taxes, I will put in second place after that, if we can get better conditions for employee participation. But it's also on the tax side. Then I would like to say to the case rapporteur, who is a little offended because we are talking about a change of course in business policy, and say that the change in course came in 2005, when neutral industrial policy was abandoned. Economic neutrality is only Jens Stoltenberg who has talked about it in this room. That's not what the Right has been talking about. I notice that the red-greens also talk a lot less about active industrial policy, after it turned out to be kicking the directors in the night's cloud and dark, going into businesses belonging to Norwegian billionaires, etc. There has also been no special appearance. That's why I think we're going to get a little bit down here, because here we're talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. That's most of them. That's 99 pst. by the enterprises. This is the case, for example. the inheritance tax is entirely material, in addition to the tax conditions of the employees. The inheritance tax – even with the changes that have been made – destroys a great many generations of family changes by selling them out. I believe that the number of enterprises and the number of jobs that can come out of ownership change, especially within generations, is significant and understated. In particular, it is a pity that this will happen in the years ahead. So when I say that a change of course is needed, I think I have coverage to say that. Then it may be that there is something out of the Council's deliberations in the various councils that can surprise me, but first of all it has to be seen on the tax side. This is essential for small businesses and, above all, something needs to be done to encourage employees to participate over time. The current rules are antiquity, prehistoric and absolutely no incentive for businesses to address them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2156	It is an important matter that is drawn up by the proposers. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of Norwegian business, and ownership change can be a critical stage in the development of such enterprises. Studies carried out by many people here today show extensive ownership change in Norwegian business and that in the near future small and medium-sized enterprises will have a quite large flow of ownership change. It is therefore important to facilitate this in a good way, so as to ensure jobs and value creation in small and medium-sized enterprises. The Minister of Economic Affairs, in a letter to the Committee, has briefed what the government is doing to facilitate ownership change. The Minister of Industry has also informed that a work has been started on a policy strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. It would be natural for change of ownership to be a reasonable key element of the strategy for SMEs, given that change of ownership is relatively frequent in this type of enterprise. The proposers ask for information and support from the public. Norway has a long way to go when it comes to providing information via the Internet and other electronic information. What has been suggested by the proposers, that it may be relevant to provide more information about ownership change on the Altin website, we found in SV an interesting proposal that there is reason to follow up. It's also a point to provide good guidance on ownership change. Norway has a quite comprehensive guidebook for SMEs, but the guidebook has a main focus on setting up businesses. So it's a main focus on supporting entrepreneurs and supporting innovation in the start-up phase of businesses. It may also be that the guidance device should be given a greater task of providing guidance in connection with ownership change, which in many ways can be an innovative phase of an enterprise. A problem that we should be looking at, as well as what is involved in the economic situation, is whether there is a greater need for competent guidance in connection with ownership change. The proposers, and, to the extent, the fleet representative, were concerned with the ownership of the companies added to them. SV is listed by companies that are the whole of them added. It's also written in Soria Moria, in the government statement, that the government will look at the conditions for companies that are owned by them, and it also says that one will look at cooperatives. One of the conditions that are required by enterprises that are wholly owned by them, and also for cooperative enterprises, is access to capital. In those enterprises, equity will be limited, and it is also required to raise sufficient front capital. So looking at the situation in the loan market of the companies that are wholly owned by the added ones, or that are of the cooperative type, SV seems to be an important thing that we should follow up. There is also a need to look at the existence of organisational models for enterprises owned by contributors that can make the organisation of these types of enterprises easier than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2169	It is important both to build on the business we have and to make sure that new businesses establish themselves. The best tool that can be used for this is to ensure long-term good and stable framework conditions. Good ownership shifts in business are an important premise for increased value creation and create a dynamic in business and development in each enterprise. That's how it's an important theme we're discussing here tonight. The government is developing a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and it is, among other things, developing a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). establish a strategic advice to be used for this work. An active business is the foundation for the continuation and development of the welfare society. A business life with many small and medium-sized enterprises offers a wide range of business activities and secures jobs and value creation in the future as well. This involves a wide range of instruments, such as research, skills enhancement, access to capital, simplification and red tape. Investment in infrastructure is an essential part of a holistic industrial policy. This government has already taken some important steps to improve the framework conditions for SMEs. The changes in inheritance fees will, for example: cause between 90 and 95 pst. all taxable persons receive a lower inheritance tax. In order to facilitate the implementation of generational shifts in smaller family businesses, the government preserved parts of the stock discount for unlisted axles and the part for calculating the inheritance tax. The government has also extended the interest-free allowance scheme for the generational change in family holdings from seven to twelve years, covering all enterprises. The government has, among other things, Making the taxes on wealth fairer by making those who have the largest assets now pay a greater share than before. The bottom deduction has increased from NOK 151 000 in 2005 to NOK 700000 in 2010. The result is that many people who paid taxes on wealth in 2005 on their normal assets, about 500,000 people, now drop taxes on wealth. Small and medium-sized enterprises have, among other things: not own research departments, and public efforts against the research community must be directed primarily towards this target group. Tax FUNN has proved to be a good tool, and the Central Party believes that this system must be passed on as a tax system and further developed so that more people use it. TaxFUNN must be set up in such a way that even smaller enterprises can benefit from research skills for innovation and development of skills in the enterprise and community. Universities and higher education institutions must be promoted for fruitful cooperation with industry, and there must be a good and strong research environment in all parts of the country where cooperation with enterprises is encouraged.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2188	We are at a crossroads in Norwegian business. As the dossier shows, as many as 40 pst can. Of all the farms in this country, there has been a change of ownership over the next ten years. This means that the arrangements we make for the next few years for business ownership to go smoothly and unproblematic will have a very strong impact on the future life base of the entire business. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the government is working on a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, we do not just want to have it sent when it is finished, but we want to participate in designing it. I think it is a pity that the government parties repeatedly ignore any attempts from the opposition to contribute to the strategy being developed. It should be in the interest of all parties to have a good anchoring and thorough review of the framework conditions for SMEs. Now the hope is that we will find some of the opposition's many good suggestions in the government's future strategy. New and established small businesses are central. Without them Norway stops. However, where new enterprises create on average two jobs, studies by the European Commission show that successful ownership shifts in small enterprises lead to an average of five jobs being continued. Therefore, the focus on flexible ownership change is so important for the Christian People's Party. It is in the small and medium-sized enterprises that a large part of the values of our country are created. Three-quarters of Norwegian enterprises are owned by families. For family businesses, the inheritance fee is a stumbling block that makes many unable to allow the next generation to take over. The Christian People's Party therefore wants payment of the inheritance fee to be postponed for at least 10 years at the time of generation change. If the holding continues to operate, one tenth of the fee will be abolished each year, and if the holding continues to operate for at least 10 years, no inheritance fee will be paid. The Christian People's Party believes this would be good business policy, good social economy and good district policy. Reduction of taxes on wealth is also important. The property tax weakens private active ownership, drains family holdings for capital, and hampers entrepreneurial activity and innovation. In no country does taxes on wealth amount to as low a level of wealth, and no country has as poor protection of working capital as Norway. Another important issue for SMEs is simplification. Many public regulations, forms and injunctions lead to unnecessary reporting requirements and complicated legislation, and too much effort and money is being used to do this work. That is why the Christian People's Party wants a simplified stock law for small businesses, and we want to introduce sunset legislation both state and municipal as well as develop a strategy for the ownership challenges of family-owned enterprises. Christian People's Party therefore supports proposal No. 1, as indicated in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2205	It is a very important challenge that has been addressed in the representative proposal from the Right we are now discussing. As the draft representative correctly points out, there is nothing in the way of the rhetoric and general views of the government and the Council of State in this area. The problem is that this is also going to be with the rhetoric. The action is totally absent, and it is a reality that under the current government ownership shifts in small and medium-sized enterprises have become more expensive and more complicated, in particular with regard to generational shifts in family-owned enterprises, and with regard to switching between Norwegian owners. It's a crazy policy, and it's quite impossible to understand. It becomes too easy to claim, as many representatives from government parties do, that removing inheritance taxes and reducing property taxes are unsocial and unfair. Let's do it. It's very unfurnished, to say it carefully. Last week, the Left visited Aass Brewery in Drammen, a company that has been family-run for four generations, and where the fifth generation might take over in a few years. One thing is if they want to. It must be their free choice. Another thing is the challenges that this company has faced after the government parties changed the inheritance tax, so that inheritances of shares are far more expensive than before. It is estimated to trigger an inheritance tax of 7 million. kr for the fifth generation Aass to take over the operation of the brewery. If it is to be implemented, it is necessary to drain the company for greater values than is necessary instead of investing the same funds in the necessary renewal of e.g. operational means or new market strategies, which often follow in the wake of a change of ownership and/or generation. The same applies to taxes on wealth. The property tax must be paid irrespective of profitability and liquidity. In order for ownership not to become a current financial burden for the owners, the holding must pay dividends so that they are compensated for the property tax. To the extent that the dividend exceeds the screening rate, the owners must also pay taxes on the dividends. Thus, there is a triple taxation of investment in business — first a profit tax, then a tax on the value of the property of the enterprise and then a tax on dividends to pay the property tax. I would like to point out five areas that I believe should be included in a strategy for ownership change in small and medium-sized enterprises: reduce the cost of generational shifts in the removal of inheritance tax and re-introduce share rebates in the tax on wealth simplifies ownership transfers to third parties and not least to employees establishing administrative support schemes to help find successors and new owners gain knowledge about ownership transfer challenges through national competence centres and available information on public websites promote ownership shifts as an alternative to start-up, inter alia. through the taxation system If Norwegian enterprises are to survive in increasingly tougher international competition, they must be able to attract skilled labour. They need employees and managers who identify with the enterprise and who see the relationship between the enterprise's best and their own best. An important instrument to increase ownership, participation, participation in the enterprise is to offer ownership positions. For many family businesses, co-ownership is an important tool for attracting competent staff and managers. Unfortunately, this kind of thinking is reasonably absent from the government and from the government parties. Back to Aass Brewery: Two years ago, the club at the brewery wrote the following in an open letter to the government: ‘As proud employees of a reputable old industrial enterprise, we are increasingly wondering about the authority’s reluctance to take action against Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises. We feel that the company's framework conditions are steadily deteriorating and that the latest changes are further exacerbating the situation." [[in inheritance taxes and property taxes on shares]] And on the other hand, «As workers at Aass Brewery, we are concerned about the future of the company, as generation change is most likely to come in the near future. Why should the owners of the enterprises be punished for thinking all the way to the best of the company? Without persons willing to expose their capital to greater risk, employment in Norway would be poor.» I couldn't have said it better myself. And this does not come from the owners, but from the employees of the company. They point out the obvious, which unfortunately more and more business owners report back to us. Instead of giving recognition to those who dare to bet, who create jobs for themselves and others, they often meet with suspicion of government and government party representatives. This is not how we create the basis for the creation of value to ensure the well-being of the future. We politicians must take the lead in a change of attitude in which starting, owning and doing business is rewarded and even admired. On this background, the Left Heart supports a minority's proposal in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2253	Valuation is the basis of the Norwegian model, where welfare schemes are among the best in the world. Small and medium-sized enterprises account for a large share of the value creation of Norwegian society. When new enterprises are established and existing enterprises develop, jobs are created and maintained. The government puts both the opportunities and the challenges for small and medium-sized enterprises on the agenda. Let me just start by saying that I'm happy for the involvement in the Storting around this. I am also pleased with the proposals we are making, which come either in Document 8 proposals or in various other contexts. We'll take it with us when we draw up strategies. But I do not always fully agree with the reality description, because the truth about Norwegian business is that it is going very well. We have more than 200,000 jobs in Norway today than we had when the red-green government took over in 2005, and 150 000 of them have come into the private sector. We have more businesses in Norway than ever. So Norwegian business is going well. In fact, we have come out of a financial crisis such as that in Europe which has the lowest unemployment rate. That doesn't mean we'll necessarily be the winner tomorrow. Being a world champion today doesn't mean being a world champion when the battle is next. It is therefore necessary to continue to improve and, in particular, to facilitate the contribution of small and medium-sized enterprises to the overall value creation. Good changes in ownership and generational shifts contribute to that very thing. For society, it is important that those enterprises that have a potential for value creation be continued. We are committed to providing competent owners and employees together with the opportunity to limit conversion costs and to facilitate innovative and value-creating enterprises and secure jobs. As the committee writes – and as I have also replied to the committee – the description of reality is that very many companies are facing a generation change. One aspect that has been highlighted is that as the company owner approaches retirement age, the annual value creation often falls, and the company’s values are likely to be confused. It is not only replaced as the key itself, but it is also the time before the change and the time after the change. That is why it is far too fast to focus solely on the costs, possible taxes and economic things of the generation change itself. The secret of continuing a good business, the secret of maintaining and strengthening value creation lies in a much more comprehensive picture. Representatives in their proposal call for attention to be paid to the framework conditions for privately owned companies. That's what the government is doing, and that's what we're going to do when we're going to create a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. I can assure you that the work on improving the framework conditions has a lot of attention. During the spring we will, among other things, — as the first government ever — provide a numerical target for simplification work in Norway. We have also announced the largest single measure ever, namely the auditing obligation for small limited liability companies. The ongoing work of the ALTINN II project will further improve and develop the ALTIN portal so that the business community will have access to relevant public sector electronic services, regardless of the level of service they provide. This policy reduces costs and simplifies the daily lives of a number of established enterprises. Generation and ownership change is an important topic in the context of a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, both because many enterprises face a change of ownership in the coming years, and because small and medium-sized enterprises – even stronger than many others – may depend on a very serious owner. Perhaps it is the founder himself who has built the company, and continuing a small or medium-sized company often requires more of individuals to take over the staf stick than in the case of the large companies. I am aware of the disagreement in this room about property taxes and inheritance taxes. There's a discussion that's definitely going to continue. However, it is important to take into account the fact that this money also benefits small and medium-sized enterprises, not least in research and innovation. We want to keep the current tax and tax level, but have never rejected reasonable adjustments. That debate will certainly continue in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2280	Whether it is the government’s honor or not that we have more businesses and more employees today can certainly be discussed. I think a lot of people have an honor there. The question is, either, when we look at the positive development we've had in the economy in the last six years, how many more we had and what would have happened if we had a bourgeois government. So I think that's something I can discuss. Otherwise, this is an important matter. It surprises me that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have a comment on just a few sentences, while the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have comments on three sides of this matter. And then the question is, is there nothing particularly interested in ownership change in small and medium-sized enterprises, when you don't write anything more? But what I would specifically ask is, when will this come? In this letter, the Council of State states that it is working ‘with a policy strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises’. And then it gets a little bit in line with what was in the previous case: when does this come to the Storting? When will we be able to discuss and deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2289	I think small and medium-sized enterprises and simplification work is one of the most frequently discussed issues in the United Kingdom, both through Questionnaires, through interpellations, through Document 8 proposals and in other contexts. Also in budgetary terms, I remember that we had it as a theme. I feel that we have many opportunities to discuss this, and we're taking that with us. It's not like we think the red-green parts can hatch out everything that's tricked. I think the opposition can do that too. If there's any good input and suggestions, we'll take it with us. This also applies to the work we do in Strategic Councils, and not least when we're around the country getting input. That's what they're dealing with, which is the most important thing to listen to. How many pages you write in a setting: First, the Council of State does not write committee comments. But you'll have to assess that. I take it as a confidence that the Council of State in the strategy also reflects the views of the Red-Green parties. But we also listen to the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2296	Yes, it is going well, but it has been since long before 2005, when developments were reversed. Governments are talking about us having a narrow focus on taxes and taxes. On the contrary, I actually said in my post that it was the employees' participation that was the most important, and that was the first priority. Because in small businesses it is getting someone who can carry this on, the main problem is number one. That's what the state council will figure out as soon as he takes a round, I think. Therefore it surprised me to hear the representative Holmelid when he referred to my post and to the Soria Moria statement, and interpreted it so that this concerns companies all the time of the employees. So you don't have to worry about owning a little bit. Is this also the Council of State interpretation of what is in Soria Moria? Have I then hovered in expectations that will never be met in relation to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2305	Let me first make a mistake. The representative Fleet had risked being accused of misinforming the Stortinget when he said that it was as good in the last government period as it was during the red-green. It's simply not true. From 2005 to 2009, there were over 200,000 more jobs in Norway. 70,000 of them came into the public sector, and 150 000 came into the private sector. From 2001 to 2005, when it was a civil government, it became, I think, about 20 000 more jobs in Norway, about zero growth in the public sector, and these came in private. There is a larger increase in the number of jobs in Rogaland counties under the red-green government than it was in all of Norway under the bourgeois. I accept that there are others who have honor or guilt, but at least you can't blame the red-greens for ruining Norwegian business. What Alf Egil Holmelid thinks, the representative must bring with him Holmelid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2312	A little bit in the extension of the representative of the fleet. The reality is that what Holmelid points out is his interpretation of the Soria Moria declaration. It is almost the collective thinking he looks to there, and to cooperatives, as he said. I could also think of an explanation from the Council of State if he sees it the same way. Does this also apply to enterprises where a lower proportion of employees are on the owner’s side? I think it is very positive that you should finally get a target of reduction in the form field. The EU has introduced it, so we will be one of the last countries in Europe to actually set such a target. It's very nice that it comes into place. But my question to the Council of State is: when we were dealing with a matter here in the Chamber of Getting a separate big message about small and medium-sized enterprises, the government parties' answers were categoricalally no, but the Council of State opened up so that perhaps you could get a case for yourself to the Stortinget about it. Can the Council of State say whether he's made up his mind now? Is it going to be your own bank account? Or is this also a strategy at government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2321	No, I think I was clear in my post. The Government shall establish a strategy. It is not intended to be sent to the EEA for treatment there, it is intended to be sent to enterprises, establishments and all those setting the framework for small and medium-sized enterprises. But, of course, elements of that strategy will certainly be highly relevant. For example, when we change the audit obligation, it's a law that has to go to the Stortinge for treatment. If we do things with the capital requirement, it has to be the Stortinge for treatment. If we get changes in tax laws and accounting laws that bring relief, it has to be here. If we provide an information service for enterprises facing a change of ownership, or a generation change in family-owned enterprises, etc., then the budgetary matters that normally also need to be dealt with in the Stortinget. So in many contexts, Stortinget has the opportunity to address this, but as a strategy, this is a strategy – it is in the word that it is ministry-treated. If it had been a message, we would have come to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2328	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2333	The matter raised by the representatives of the Right in this proposal for a representative is very important. But unfortunately, the debate shows that there is a certain difference here between the opposition's starting point and the position's starting point. I am a little disappointed when I hear again that an important theme will come as a strategy. Yes, for God's sake – excuse me, President – we need to be careful that we don't get too many debates in the Storting, and that the Storing should be involved in matters that the government itself believes are too important for others to have any opinion about. But we'll probably get more than enough time to get back to each of the things that come. I'm going to try to illustrate with a single case that shows how difficult a change of ownership can be, a generation change in particular. If you take, for example: a fishing company, like a shipping company, where you have a family and you want to leave the business to the next generation, and these happen not to be on fisherman B, and rather live in the municipality, but can be a lawyer or an accountant etc. and live elsewhere, the problems report immediately. Then there are several rules and laws that come into the picture. Of course, we have what applies to property taxes and inheritance taxes when that time comes, but the second problem is just related to the law that in a change of generation within a shipping company that has to do with fishing boats, you must even have lived in the right municipality in order to take over your own family's business. Fortunately, the Minister for Fisheries has said that she should take a look at this. The background to my challenge to the Council of State to get a message to the Biggest for small and medium-sized enterprises is, of course, that the Biggest is going to join and discuss all the framework conditions, not just for the fragmented piece that the Council of State has clearly intended to make if you want to change something in the Shares Act, and if you want to look at the wealth tax – which I don't think you're going to do, at least not in the right direction. But what scares me the most is the representative Holmelid's posts. With reference to the Soria Moria declaration of company ownership, one would focus on the whole-time, almost collective, and cooperative enterprises, but one would just exempt the companies involved in lifting up employees to be with and run their businesses, perhaps with a 10–15–20 pst., perhaps even more. So let's ignore that. I hope the Council of State has a different attitude, and I think that the Council of State does, in fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2346	In my reply to the Council of State, I said that it also went well until 2005, and I don't think anyone will arrest me for that. I didn't care about numbers, as the Council of State did, but given the starting point, it went well. It was as Arne Strand wrote in the newspaper: «The government came to the covered table.» I think the Council of State should be careful to boast too much, because we have had a cyclical wave that has brought us forward. But it has not helped everyone, and it does not help everyone who is going to make a change of ownership. Then I am a little back to not tax and tax, I am back to finding ways to facilitate the change of ownership. Then I firmly believe that one in terms of employee participation over time, in line with what the council says about not having too narrow a focus, but having a broad and not least long-term focus, where the one who is going to transfer the company, whether it is now to the next generation or to other employees, can get time to not use profits perhaps to high bonuses and high wages to keep skilled employees who he knows can bring the company forward in the years that come, but could invite them to a partnership, so that they too can discount their own work in the future. I think it's very important, and it's not just rhetoric on my part. I've said several times from this pulpit that I've actually had a hope for the Soria Moria statement in this area that you really meant something about it, and that maybe we should get a lot further in that area. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Minister of Industry may be in such a bad mood that he would not respond to my reply about what the representative Holmelid believes. That's why I'm not going to challenge him if he has a day-form that warrants it. But since I have the word, I'd rather challenge Holmelid himself to say if this is something there's common excitement about among these parties, because it's actually important to know. If we know that this is going to be nothing, we'll get a lot more about taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2355	In mathematics, we have something that distinguishes between being exclusive and not exclusive, and I think we're going to use it in this case. What I stressed in my post was that SV is busy helping to facilitate whole-owned, part-owned companies and cooperatives, and we are proud of that. But, of course, this does not prevent us from looking at other ways in which companies can be co-owners – so that's the way a listener listens!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2361	I think I'm going to start by saying that it's good to note that generation change in many companies is demanding. One should not use too large a word when one acknowledges it. We've seen that, and we've experienced a lot of examples of that. But it is also the case that the system in Norwegian society is not black and white. When I acknowledge that, I would also acknowledge that both the inheritance tax and the property tax have a distributive effect and a great significance, I believe, in relation to the legitimacy of the Norwegian tax system. I think it's pretty basic. I am a little startled when the opposition also in this case in a well-known style jumps over that recognition. They are not willing to draw recognition both ways, but paint it a little black-and-white. I am very pleased with what the Minister for Industry has said in his reply to the Committee. It addresses some of the challenges that lie there and on which it is important to focus further. But I think the debate that Stortinget has had a number of times in terms of relationships with small and medium-sized enterprises, very quickly turns black-and-white, and that's a bit of a shame in a way. To continue the rhetoric, I would like to underline: it is allowed to make money. Business activities are permitted. Yeah, it's even allowed to be rich in that country here. Yeah, that's actually how we're pretty grateful for that. They invest and they maintain the activity. Many small and medium-sized enterprises are highly dependent on high activity in Norway. That's where they have their market, that's where they work, and that's what's part of a whole system. Low unemployment — high employment — is important for small and medium-sized enterprises. So I'm not going to continue the rhetoric into what's done and not done from 2005 until now, and what happened in the period before, but just notice that the creation of the number of jobs is historically high. It has never been as high as from 2005 and until 2009. Unemployment in the period 2005 to 2010, including the financial crisis, has not been higher than that of the previous four years. For employment and activity, Norway has been in an excellent position. It's undoubtedly a fact. The other night, the business committee met with the Bergen Nutrition Council. 14,000 members had had over 100 meetings recently. The main challenge mentioned was access to skilled labour. This issue was not mentioned in one word.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2376	Svein Fleet has had the word twice and thus gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2379	Only in order to correct the impression of the chairman of the committee trying to create by his intervention towards the end here that this is a debate on macro-economics and the legitimacy of the tax system, distributional effects, etc.There is a broad consensus, with, of course, some shades in the Norwegian Storing. I would like to remind the committee leader that this matter – this proposal – concerns how we can facilitate ownership shifts in small businesses. When the chairperson of the Committee refers to the need for employment in Norwegian business – skilled labour – there is nothing new at all. But what we also need is qualified ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2384	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2813]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2400	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each group of parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2409	As rapporteur of the case, I am delighted to promote the position of the Business Committee in the proposal of the representatives of the big business representatives Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tenden from the Left on the distortion of public aid in the start-up phase for start-up companies with high growth potential. I first want to express both joy and support for the Left's commitment to this type of enterprise, and I am absolutely sure that I have an overall committee with me to express that kind of support. The proposal addresses key business policy issues — Norway’s capacity to facilitate innovation and innovation in business. This issue is vital to our future creation of value and well-being. Then it is that the Left is committed to receiving support for a concrete proposal to replace today's grant of establishment with a pre-seed scheme. In its joint proposal with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the right supports the inclusion of this concrete proposal in a broader assessment of access to risk capital for small and medium-sized enterprises in the start-up phase. The right sees that there has to be a continuous evaluation of today’s tools to facilitate the start-up phase of entrepreneurs with good business ideas. We are familiar with the vulnerability of start-ups; only 50 pst. of newly established holdings are still in operation after one year and only one of three holdings is in operation after five years. We know that the availability of private venture capital in Norway – so-called seed capital – is partly completely absent from the idea phase for a very large number of enterprises. The risk is perceived to be too high. Therefore, the establishment grant scheme, which can be granted both before and after establishment, is of great importance at this early stage. In addition, we know that the incubator system can often be decisive during the start-up phase, for these companies need more than risk capital. In many cases, lack of market and business competence is a critical factor both in the early stages and in the commercialisation phase. In addition, these enterprises often lack good advice on the diversity of both public and private schemes. The right point is that a broad instrument is needed to stimulate innovation and innovation in business. Different businesses need different solutions at different times; we need more tailoring. Therefore, we believe that the government needs to provide a broad assessment and evaluation of the current system as soon as possible, and look at how access to risk capital for SMEs can be improved. Here the Left's proposal can be included as a good and exciting element. On this basis, I recommend to the Committee that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. Furthermore, I address the proposal that the Right has with the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2428	The representative, Mr Dahl, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2431	Proposal providers want to turn public tools into new companies with high growth potential. The proposal is very detailed and reworked, but I cannot escape the fact that it also seems bureaucratic, including. that the requirements of the business plan shall include a description of the personal and professional qualifications of each individual to assist the start-up companies, with a limit of up to 200 words per person, and that each person must additionally create a personal motivational statement of no more than 50 words. That being said, I understand and support the intention of the proposal – to promote the establishment and growth of businesses – and I agree with the idea that the phase from idea to commercialisation is difficult, and there are many companies that fall from it. In fact, the risk is too great for private investors to be willing to enter. Competitive means are important, and discussing how we can better contribute to providing such companies with the necessary capital and skills is particularly important. The working party agrees that it is particularly important that there are mechanisms to ensure good access to capital for business, and that it is particularly important that the government has a particular focus on this in its efforts to further develop the tool tool. I am more uncertain as to whether these companies that are entirely in the starting pit will benefit from the removal of property taxes and the modification of the tax FUNN regime limits, as the Progress Party and the Right refer to as measures also in this setting. It's going to be a little bit like saying that taxation is the answer, but, sorry, what was actually the question? There have been many discussions from this chair and from other forums on framework conditions and tools, and we in the Labour Party, with the Minister of Industry at the head, are all concerned that one is following closely the development of the capital market for start-ups and that one is working continuously to improve existing tools and assess the need for any new measures. Improvements in the tools are, as I said, a continuous process, which we also need to look at in the context and in a holistic industrial policy, and to build on any changes in the evaluations of the systems, feedback from organisations, businesses and others is, in our view, a quite proper way to deal with this. Of course, a good input was made in this room as well. I would like to point out that the incubator system and the establishment grant scheme are important tools for many, and that is not what the proposers suggest, that public money is just money and not intellectual capital. Innovation Norway is a service with a lot of advice. It also does so by means of local or intermunicipal food managers and other public schemes. For example, Investinor also demands to enter the board where they go in with funds – the same applies to seed fund capital. Innovation Norway can be divided into five main types. Funding, as suggested by the proposers, is a tool. The other four tools are on consulting, networking, competence and profiling. The advisory section is dialogue with both individual enterprises and groups of enterprises. On their company visits, the labour party fraction has received many feedbacks that the advisory part is very important, especially in the early phase. The red-green government is pursuing an active business policy for increased value creation and employment, thus increasing well-being. Our welfare is, as many people have pointed out, depending on the establishment, further development and running profitable businesses. But I firmly believe that this active industrial policy is a clear change of course from the previous government. There is a policy that has actually led to nearly 300,000 new jobs, of which two-thirds are in the private sector. These are important jobs, and it shows that it is easy to establish businesses in Norway with a red-green governance. We have also been through a financial crisis during this period. We're not even in the target. The instrumentation still needs to be further developed, and new tools may also need to be in place. It is an important issue that the proposers raise. The proposal also emphasises that any public measure for better capital access for start-ups should simultaneously trigger private capital in addition to the introduction of the necessary competences. This is a point of view which we in the Labour Party also emphasise, and the proposals in the private proposal we take with us in the further work on improving and developing the tools and better working conditions for newly established enterprises, including those companies that are completely in the start-up pit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2463	First, I would like to thank the Left for the proposal that addresses some of the problems that small and medium-sized enterprises have. In 2009, an average of nine to ten new enterprises were established each day. However, only a little over half of these are expected to continue to operate after one year. Within a period of five years from the establishment of the undertakings, only one of three establishments is expected to be in operation. These are numbers that it's important to bring with them in this case, and in other cases. The reasons why so many businesses fall from within a five-year period are complex, including: due to the high administrative costs associated with strict reporting requirements and the current tax system, not least. The Progress Party is committed to providing good framework conditions that can help improve the equity of business and reduce the administrative costs of business, and we believe that more effort needs to be made on the Seed Fund scheme than at present. The tax FUNN scheme should be strengthened and direct tax deductions should be granted for R & D investments. These are tax systems that are proven to work well and on which we need to invest. The government of Stoltenberg has gone the opposite way and has actually weakened the tax FUNN order. The scope of the scheme was reduced by the government limiting the number of hours for its own employees to a maximum of 1850 hours per year and setting a maximum hourly rate of 500 kroner. In addition, the Progress Party considers that the wealth tax has a number of adverse consequences, including: for innovation – we have said this before, and we still say it – and the changes that the government has made in the wealth tax have somewhat offset this, even though the government boasts of how many have avoided wealth tax. In the case of enterprises, there is no significant improvement for the more capital-intensive. The Progress Party is fully aware that small and medium-sized enterprises are the main source of conversion and innovation in Norwegian business, and ensuring that enterprises get through the difficult start-up phase must be at the heart of a comprehensive innovation policy. It's a paradox that it's just at this stage that many companies are experiencing a lack of capital. The Progress Party therefore considers that the government should have made an overall assessment of the situation and identified the current use of the instruments. The Progress Party will stress that there will be a number of measures in addition to a possible PS scheme, which may be relevant to improving access to risk capital, both for newly established companies and for Norwegian businesses in general, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. Changes in the tax FUNN scheme as regards borders, definitions and attractiveness, direct deduction of R & D investment, strengthening of the BIA programme, in particular in relation to the commercialisation of research, more consideration for innovation in public procurement rules and neutral VAT in the country, including health enterprises, will have a positive impact on the access to capital of such companies for which the proposal is aimed, and in other SMEs. With regard to the instruments currently available and available to the public, including Innovation Norway, they must be nationwide. It is the good idea that triggers support and grant funds, regardless of sex and place of residence and the type of product or service. The Progress Party considers that the market demand for goods and services will be crucial for whether or not the activity has a growth potential. This assessment is not public. As far as the PS scheme is concerned, the Progress Party is of the opinion that increased activity with SkattenFUNN, Argentum fund-in-funds and seed funds will be a better system than proposed by the proposers, but at the same time we take it into account – all in order to improve the ability of businesses to succeed and develop further into profitable enterprises. To say that the company or companies are going to succeed is an impossible task for both the public and the private, and that's a good thing. The diversity that starts a business makes it exciting to be a consumer, but also exciting to others in the business world. Not everyone can be hairdressers, and not everyone has the same need to visit this type of service. Therefore, a reorientation of Norwegian innovation policy related to public sector instruments is needed. Over the years, the Progress Party has made proposals such as: providing business with care. We have promoted business interests in debates, interpellations and through proposals – and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2495	It is a very important question that will be addressed in this proposal. I have worked a lot with the commercialization of research results and I know very well the issues that will be addressed here. The public support schemes in the form of grants and the type of schemes that are not to be repaid cover the first stage of ideas. At the other end, we have the arrangements that are based on you getting a loan. They are based on a risk assessment carried out by banks or by seed funds with a slightly higher risk, but not necessarily a much higher risk. What is a challenge is the very phase between where you end up getting support schemes like the founder grant and that kind of non-refund scheme, to the stage where you can get loans based on some commercial rating in a bank or in a seed fund. It is well known that very many founders believe that that phase is very poorly covered in the Norwegian capital market, and that there is a need to discuss whether better arrangements can be created right in the transition phase that Left here points to is an important problem. It's a debate that I think it's important that we take. I don't want to conclude on which schemes are the best, but there's a need to find schemes that are better than today. Between the phase where one gets scholarship and direct support, and the phase where one can go to today's schemes to get an assessment of their potential and get a loan, it's a hole, a challenge, like Left Point, and as we in SV think it's very important to go into, to discuss what's the best solution to cover that hole. We should be very happy to join in that debate. My experience is that it is not enough to facilitate good capital arrangements. It is also important to facilitate good advisory arrangements. Because we see that the companies that establish themselves in an incubator situation or in another type of network, in business environments or the like, have a significantly higher chance of getting out at the other end alive than those that have not been given the opportunity to be in an incubator program or in a business area. So it shows that capital itself is just one of the instruments. Having good advice is also very important for companies to survive the critical phase. There are several reasons why counselling is important. One point is that a founder is often a professional who does not have special competence in law. A founder who enters a capital market without competent advisers can very often be overrun by those who are on risk capital, and come out with such a small title, after he has been watered down by capital, that he has lost all power. Having a good, competent consultancy that ensures that the founder maintains a legitimate position in the company he has created is an important part of the consultation. The second important part of the consultation has the same starting point. Very often, the founder is a professional who has a good idea – he can be an engineer, a technologist or whatever. He knows business, he knows product development, but he can't do this with the market and making business plans. Getting advice that enables themselves to assess whether this is commercial life and not just technically possible and sensible is also an important part of the advice. My message is that, in parallel with the fact that, as the Left points out here, we are looking at whether we need to have other more risky loan arrangements, whether we need other incentives to attract risky private capital – it is at least equally important that we strengthen the further development of the networks that we have through the SIVA and other programmes, and not least that we further develop such as the FORNY programme, which has specialised in commercialising research results, and which, in addition to giving grants, provides very good guidance on the kind of guidance I mention here. My conclusion is that the issue is very important. The conclusion is not alone as suggested by the Left. It's a matter we have to work on and take very seriously in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2519	Let me begin by commending the proposers for presenting a good document. This proposal raises an important issue, namely the ability of the authorities to facilitate the entry of businesses through the difficult start-up phase. Or, in another way, this is about the pit itself in the seed phase. It's innovation and innovation that's the biggest driver for developing our society. Today we have services and products that we could hardly dream of just 30 years ago. We can thank smart entrepreneurs and attentive investors for this. But it is also our job as politicians to ensure that this development continues to flourish. We need companies that create values, and we need innovative businesses. That is why I am once again disappointed that the government parties do not support this proposal. The Christian People's Party believes that business must be built from below, and that the main role of politicians is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and profits for the distribution of important Community goods. Innovation and innovation are what drives Norway in the future. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is important that the state facilitates the start of new innovative and innovative companies. We also believe that increased investment in research, innovation and good public infrastructure are key success criteria for a value-creating business, which will bear the costs for future generations. The Christian People's Party therefore wants a tax system that does not destroy entrepreneurship, not destroy innovation and growth in business. The Christian People's Party supports this proposal and believes that the system can be both smart and effective. The system, as it is understood, can lead to more start-ups getting hurt at an earlier stage of private capital, giving them the opportunity to move forward more quickly and to increase profitability in the past. The scheme will also allow start-ups to focus on the operation of the company and the development of products and concepts rather than to spend time on raising capital or applying for support through schemes. It is also positive that the scheme will provide investment companies with both risk relief at an earlier stage, several projects to choose from and to shape the company from the outset. All of this will help to increase interest in investing in newly created companies. Christian People's Party therefore supports proposal No. 1, as shown in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2536	Quite exactly one year ago, Håvard Bjor contacted the Left's breeding group, who has worked a lot with commercialisation and the development of typical start-up and growth companies. He's also here today. He had an important errand: to try to put into practice what all seems to be concerned about – how a good business or business idea can get past the idea and start-up stage and become a company that can grow, and hopefully have a potential of international character. Håvard Bjor had one main message. Public instruments should be divided into general instruments for all start-ups and special instruments for growth companies, i.e. companies that obviously have a potential to become something big but that need help over the capital-drying crisis – or the valley of death, as we have illustrated in our proposal. The result of that meeting and several subsequent meetings is the draft representative we are discussing today. As you know, the left is not represented in the Business Committee. Unfortunately, it bears the impression that we are debating today. Now I appreciate the positive words that the rapporteur has made. The proposal meets with a great deal of goodwill, but not least in the comments from the government parties, it meets with the usual: OK enough, but the government is already doing everything that is possible to do. Or even less obligating: the government is following developments. The reply received by the Minister of Industry in his letter dated 19 January is with respect to notifying a joke, and it is not particularly better that the majority refers to this letter in their comments. If it is such that the government and government parties ‘follow developments’, they have a very strange way of doing so. A good example is the nationwide grant grant scheme in Innovation Norway, which was launched as a counter-cyclical measure in the context of the 2009 crisis package. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade itself notes in its 2011 budget proposal: ‘In 2009, EUR 150 million was earmarked. kr to the country-wide establishment grant. 88 pst. of the amount allocated to projects with innovation at international level and 81 pst. are granted to projects with product/service innovations.’;» While access to high-quality innovative projects is thus documented, and the Ministry of Industry and Trade in its budget proposal indicates that the institutional grant scheme focused specifically on the innovation element, the government and the government parties therefore choose to continue to cut funds for this scheme. In the 2011 state budget, it is cut from 50 to 20 million. kr. This is precisely the opposite of the policy of government parties in their comments. How can one know that a start-up company has a large growth potential? Of course, you can't know that for sure. But a good tip is whether qualified investors are willing to invest and invest reasonable risk-based capital in the company. This is precisely what is fundamental to the proposal that the Left has made and which we are now dealing with. We suggest twisting current aid schemes so that those companies that are qualified and which can show that they have commitments from investors are up-limited to, for example, One and a half million. kr, receives an equivalent public grant or support. After following the debate so far, I am rather hesitant and conditionally optimistic. It is possible that I get a little more optimistic after hearing the Council of State, which comes after me. I believe that the Left's proposal is very concrete and focused on facilitating more of the knowledge companies we need in order to ensure the welfare of the future. In particular, it is important in the wider context of climate and environmental solutions. I hope the Council of State can confirm that this is a proposal he will not take with him to put at the bottom of the drawer, but in fact something that he and the government will seriously consider. As can be seen from the proposal, this need not be particularly costly either. Finally, I will address the proposal distributed in the Chamber, which is identical to the proposal made in Document 8:47 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2558	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2562	It is a thorough and thorough proposal by the representatives of Tenden and Skei Grande. The proposal addresses many of the various issues relating to the design of effective instruments to promote the establishment and development of start-up companies with high growth potential. It is probably part of the units that Stortinget works in such detail in proposals in this room. That means there's a lot of commitment behind it, which probably means that there's a good deal of contact with people who have experience in this area, and I see the proposal as a constructive input into how the arrangements we have can be even better. The idea of the proposal is that it is not something that should be added to the instruments that already exist, but that it is about how the instruments we have can be even more distorted about what businesses actually need. We are, as mentioned in a previous debate here, in a major review of the instruments we have. The need for capital in different companies is what we are following in that process, and we are constantly working to see how the systems we have fit the different stages of an enterprise's establishment and growth. As the government announced in its policy platform, we will make an overall assessment of the arrangements for State capital injections into small and medium-sized enterprises at an early stage. The objective is to arrive at a system that ensures that companies with good and profitable ideas can receive funding. I am pleased with the underlying premise that really lies in the proposal, namely that the state and the public have an important role to play in business. It is not everyone who believes it, but it is very clear in the proposal of the representatives that public opinion can contribute to growth and economic development with a good instrument. This is how Innovation Norway's schemes are at a record level. In fact, we have reduced some of the temporary efforts in financial crisis times, as we announced when we came with them, but still the means of innovation in Norway are at a very high level. They will continue to be in the years to come, and then we'll have to work together to make them as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2576	With all due respect, I have to say that the letter from the Council of State tells me really nothing. Among other things, it says: ‘The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is following developments in the capital market of start-ups and is continuously improving existing instruments, based on evaluations of the arrangements and feedback from organisations, enterprises and others.’ Then my question is, what does this really mean? What's done, and what's it given out of results? And what will this answer to results, and what results will it produce in relation to the proposals proposed by the Progress Party throughout all years, which have been voted down by this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2586	Now I just gave unreserved praise to the Left Party's position that the state can play a very active role in industrial development. I might not be able to give the same unreserved tribute to the replicator's party. I believe that through the various public capital schemes, we can contribute to innovation loans, stipends, innovation grants, loss provisions, etc., which we have EUR 213 million. kr to in the 2011 budget, and I believe that the state also plays a major role through the ownership we have in many companies. So I think we have a lot of resources at our disposal. What I see as the Left's proposal in this proposal is improvements in how this should be more focused on the needs of businesses. It's an approach I think is constructive, and it's a track I want to follow in the work we have in the future, among other things. in the overall review following the evaluation of Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2591	State Council Trond Giske is an exciting, unreasoning and unconventional politician, sometimes frivolous, sometimes more vague. I will go into something where he has been quite clear. And the Right wants to support Trond Giske's open recognition that the removal of property taxes has a major impact on private ownership's ability and willingness to contribute risk capital. Then it is that the Prime Minister has been equally clear and said that this is not the government's policy. Then my question is: does the Council of State believe that he can get an impact on his desire to remove the property tax, and can he tell us how he intends to achieve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2596	It is probably a line that lies a little on the side of the matter we are dealing with, but I would nevertheless say that I am open to all changes that contribute to the improvement of business. But I've said that there are some prerequisites for making such a change, among other things. we must ensure that we maintain public revenue. We need money for health, care for the elderly and school. We cannot allow tax cuts to go beyond important welfare schemes. We need to maintain the distribution profile. It will not be portable to give taxes in the million-dollar class to the richest in Norway. We have to have a distribution profile that most people understand and accept. Then you have to turn the tax on other things, and there I have seen that opposition leaders have been quite reprehensible. But we've made changes to the property tax. Half a million fewer people pay taxes on wealth today compared with the situation under the Bondevik II government. This has happened under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2601	I do not know exactly how to describe the letter that the Council of State delivered to the Committee on 19 January concerning the proposal of the Left. In the letter, the Council of State is making every effort, on five lines, to tell us that he's following developments, and that's it. There is no argument for the proposal, there is no argument against the proposal, and it is not at all problematic. This is at the limit of what the Storting should reasonably expect from a response to a serious and reworked proposal. However, I would like to give the Council of State an opportunity to use the next minute to explain what he actually thinks about the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2606	As I said in my post, I think the proposal is interesting, especially the premise of the proposal, namely that we need to look at whether the instruments we have are structured in a sensible way in relation to the different stages in which a company is located. The feedback I get when I travel to the companies in Norway – which I spend a lot of time on – is that it is not necessarily entirely oriented towards where the needs are greatest. The aim of the public schemes is to try to close the gaps created by the private market, namely that they may not take sufficient risks and are present for those enterprises that still have growth potential. If the private market were to solve this, there would be no need for public schemes. However, it may be in the border country that the size of each scheme in Innovation Norway should go into detail – at least it has not been a tradition that we have been so detailed. But that's a good input that we take with us when we're going to work on this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2611	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2616	I think the representative Torgeir Dahl told us in his reply that at times the council was very clear, and at other times very unclear, almost blurred. I must say that the answers to Elvestuen today, and also to Torgeir Dahl and to Bredvold, were of the relatively unclear species. And I guess we'll have to get used to that eventually. The minority of the Committee endorses the Left's proposal, through the proposal in place. At the same time, the minority says that we can't just look at this in isolation. We also have to look a little bit further. That's in a lot of ways what the minority's proposal deals with. Unfortunately, the majority of the Committee does not support this proposal. And the proposal is very important precisely in terms of looking at the instrument. I have to say that I am a little provoked when the Council of State in its reply to the representative Elvestuen in the change of line here refers to the gaps that private people create in the financing of businesses. In fact, it may be that it's just the tax haven that makes you have problems getting enough risk capital into place, that you have problems getting enough capital in the most innovative phase, especially in the seed phase, where you're going to try your idea, and where the probability of success can actually be relatively small. These are just things that we invited to have a debate on in Stortinget. But the government has told us today that this is not a matter that fits in the Stortinget. We have even heard that it is not common for the Storting to discuss the instruments of Innovation Norway. The Council of State says that at least there has been no practice in the past. Well, there has been practice in the past, because as the different packages have been presented, as the changes have come, it is precisely the Storting who has been with and treated it – and sometimes also the driver to get it. And when the Council of State in the change of line with the representative Bredvold says that you can't give the same praise when it comes to the use of public funds, to the Progress Party as to the Left, then it's time for the Council of State to start reading the setting. Then it's time for the Council of State to start following what's going on in this room. The Progress Party has supported the entire package he joined in the context of the financial crisis. With regard to all the public instruments, the Progress Party was involved in supporting the Council because it was important at that stage. But now it's time we moved on and looked at other types of instruments. Therefore, this room should have been submitted to a review of the whole of Innovation Norway, and not just to hear that it is the government that is going to develop a strategy. It would be an important signal, and then we could just see these things in context. I hope that the Council of State will take this opportunity to review the proposals of the Left and the minority in the context of the revised national budget. It'll be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2625	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2814]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2641	As the rapporteur, I am delighted to present this case concerning a free trade agreement between the EFTA States and Serbia, which was signed at the EFTA Ministerial meeting in Geneva on 17 December 2009. The starting point of the agreement is to ensure Norwegian enterprises as well as competitors from EU countries, and to contribute to processes of a more political nature, such as the Barcelona process and the stabilisation of Western Balkans. Through the Free Trade Agreement with Serbia, EFTA wishes to contribute to increased stability in the region and to strengthen economic development in Serbia. This free trade agreement covers trade in industrial products, including fish and other marine products, processed agricultural products, competition issues and intellectual property rights. The agreement also contains basic provisions for investments, public acquisitions and services. Own agreements have also been concluded between each EFTA State and Serbia on trade in agricultural products forming part of the Free Trade Agreement. The agreement has improved market access for industrial products, agricultural products and fish. This is regulated, inter alia: by removing customs duties on industrial products no later than four years after the entry into force of the Agreement. A Joint Committee is committed to the fact that the Free Trade Agreement also focuses on human rights and is in this respect in favour of its inclusion as a theme in the Agreement. The human rights situation in Serbia has improved significantly, but there is still a way to address these challenges. However, environmental concerns and corporate social responsibility are also confirmed as important procedural provisions of the parties. The draft suspension of the Industry Committee has been forwarded to the Foreign and Defence Committee, which has joined a Joint Nutrition Committee, which agrees to the ratification of this Free Trade Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2656	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2814]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2672	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2814]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2690	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2814]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2698	Then we're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2774	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2782	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eva Kristin Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Kari Storstrand, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right, proposals No. 4–6, from Kari Storstrand on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make Norway’s contribution to the UN depending on the progress and results of the reform work of the organisation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to base the principle of zero nominal growth in the UN budgets on the annual/two-year budgetary procedures of the organisation.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to contribute to the preferential financing of new mandates and activities through the elimination of out-of-date, irrelevant or duplicate mandates.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2821	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the termination of the Multi-Annual Indicative Commitment Scheme to the UN Sub-Organisations.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a report on progress in the reform process of the United Nations Department of Peace Operations [[DPKO]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2847	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:141 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2866	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Vigdi's Giltun on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the removal of the age limit for training, stimulation and activation of disabled persons in the context of the 2012 State budget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the financial and administrative responsibility for the scheme relating to the means of training, stimulation and activation of disabled persons is added to Nav’.» The left has announced their support for the proposals. Alternatively, there is a vote between the proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2898	In Case No: 6–8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2949	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e2959	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e3163	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e3173	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e3181	During the debate, Per Roar Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a change of course in Norwegian industrial policy by presenting a strategy for ownership shifts in small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can be implemented in such a way that jobs and values are not unnecessarily lost. The government is asking the government to ensure that the strategy is based on a reduction in the tax and tax levels of these enterprises, that it is easier for employees to become owners of their own enterprises, and to provide better public information on websites such as Altinn and Bedin and on a separate business portal by model from Sweden, as well as that the public provides practical guidance on the purchase and sale of enterprises. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e3187	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e3211	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Dahl on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the representative's seats in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for measures to improve access to risk capital in the start-up phase of high growth potential start-up companies, at the earliest and latest in the context of the review of the 2011 revised national budget. by replacing today’s nationwide establishment grant with a PS scheme.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e3242	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to provide as soon as possible a broad assessment of how access to risk capital for SMEs can be improved, especially in the start-up phase, and that the representative proposal 47 S to replace today’s nationwide grant of set-up by a PS scheme becomes part of such an assessment.’; [[2010-2011]] The left has announced that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e3280	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e3288	The vote will take place at the meeting of 24 February 2011 on the proposal from the Party of Presidents of the European Parliament: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the cessation of the activities of the Media Authority, with a view to regulating and controlling media diversity issues by the Competition Authority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-10.ana.ud2107e3311	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
