ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e26	The representative of Sonja Mandt, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e41	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the government councils Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Lars Peder Breck and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e48	I will be allowed to ask questions to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. We now have several months of negotiations behind us, and finally we have come to the port of all the wage settlements that have been. It has been a relatively peaceful spring, and finally managed even the footballers to agree. But what's worrying about what we're seeing is that after all the paychecks are in the port and the negotiations have taken place, the agricultural settlement is coming. You have managed to reach an agreement on this matter this year. What happens then is that a teacher gets an average increase of approx. NOK 7000 according to the settlement made for the public sector. Then we get the agricultural settlement on the table and the consensus we've come up with there, where you take out a very large part of the increase you give to the farmers, in the form of increased prices. This means that the relatively modest growth in purchasing power that many people have experienced is absorbed both by the tax, which obviously affects your wages, and also by the increased food prices resulting from the agricultural negotiations of the year. My question to the Council of State is as follows: When will the Council of State go in and see how this agricultural settlement is done, so as to reduce the use of increased target prices, which means that consumers have to take the bill? And is the Council of State possibly determined by its starting point and its opinion when the Food Chains Committee presented its recommendation that food in Norway is too expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e59	The question asked here by the representative Nesvik has many facets, and I'm going to try to answer that question. But the first thing I want to stress is that the overall impact of the agricultural settlement on the average food prices is being very limited, there's going to be a change of 0.7 pst. Farm production — it is important to bring it — affects commodity prices. It is difficult at this stage to see how it will affect individual products, as the notice in the newspaper that was referred to shows. When we evaluate the food prices as a result of this settlement, it has to be taken into account in the calculation that from 1 January the government will remove the food production fee. It provides a tax relief for the industry of about 615 million. kr. 280 million. NOK 215 million in the case of Norwegian agricultural products. kr import and about 40 million. kr fish. So the starting point here is that it has different effects, but what we're dealing with in the agricultural agreement is the commodity prices. There is no basis for the intermediate stage to increase its prices, as it may appear from some press releases, due to changes in the food production charge. There are many people who play a game in a market and take advantage of this situation. My starting point is that, on average, the agricultural agreement increases by 0.7 pst. This is very moderate in a situation where we have seen relatively low food prices in Norway compared to other countries. Let's talk about the Food Chains Committee. Here it is that they have documented that despite the fact that we have peculiar taxes in agricultural policy, the food chains take a greater share of the framework, and that should be looked at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e74	The answer to the Council of State worries me, because the Council of State says it's hard to calculate it and that, and we can't see how to pick up these prices, and what's going to happen as a result of the way one thing affects the other thing. In this respect, it is particularly important to enter into negotiations where there is a specific commitment to increasing target prices towards this sector. And then you're talking about the average increase is just 0.7 pst. The problem is: if you take a family of four, where one is – let's say – teaching and caring for the whole family, and you take the tax and the increased target prices in relation to particular milk, bread, meat and eggs, it will actually eat up most of the so-called real wage increase that this group would get. I ask the Council of State again: Does the Council of State still believe that food in Norway is too expensive? And will the Council of State change the system, so that these kinds of transfers are made over the state budget and not through increased prices to the consumer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e83	I think we have a very well-functioning system in the Agricultural Agreement Institute. I fully defend it, because it gives the farmer the opportunity to increase their income opportunities, and it allows the consumer to have stable framework conditions in terms of total prices. Prices in Norway are stable compared to developments seen internationally. As regards the impact of the agricultural agreement, which is 0,7 pst. on average, and relating to commodity prices, it is in fact the case which the Party of Advances and the representative of Nesvik should also realise that it has no direct impact on the choice of intermediaries in such a situation. It is quite interesting that the Progress Party, which wants free adjustment, is concerned here with even more control in terms of food prices. It is quite incredible that the Liberal Advance Party is going to get rid of this discussion in this way, and does not take into account the fact that there should actually be a market adjustment also in the case of food prices. Let me also stress that it is strange that there is only food prices you should not do anything about in this country in the discussion of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e94	Three questions have been asked and given rise to follow-up – first Torgeirar Tåldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e97	I will continue to ask if Nesvik's unanswered representative, and it is based on food prices and that consumers in that very country are now being transferred to the bill because of the failure of the government of Stoltenberg. In Norway we have the most expensive food in the world. We have the world's most expensive milk. We have the world's most expensive cheese. We're the world's most expensive at everything that's made of food products. That makes us a We have also come so far that this particularly affects minimum pensioners, pensioners and young children's parents. And Breck said when the Food Chains Committee was finished, that the food was too expensive. But at the same time, at the next moment, you go into the agricultural negotiations and increase prices very much on food. So the question of Breck is, when is Breck going to start taking into account consumers and not just the special interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e104	I would now say that it makes sense sometimes for different representatives to have more thoughts in their heads at the same time. The point of the agricultural agreement is that it has a small impact on commodity prices – 0.7 pst. average. So it's also that it looks like some middles are taking advantage of the situation. There's no basis for that. When the food production fee is reduced, they should not increase prices in the same way. In terms of the impact on consumers, it is, as I said, moderate, and it seems almost as if the liberal Progress Party is concerned with controlling prices. Here they say that the only thing that can't be changed by prices in this country is food prices. That's pretty interesting to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e113	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e116	This discussion is a continuation of what has taken place throughout the spring, not least in the media, after the expectations and demands of this year's agricultural settlement were reversed by the red-green party meetings. Then the disappointment gets bigger from the farmers when you end up, as usual, at half. So you get this debate over and over again: is it to be taken into account in prices, or is it to be taken out of the budget? Everyone owes each other, and Lundtigen owes him to the Prime Minister's office. This, I believe, is damaging to the reputation of the industry, and this is what will be my question: does the Council of State see that a very important industry in Norway, the agricultural industry, is being damaged by these discussions? And does the Council of State think about looking at changes in the way agriculture is structured — he is one of the parties to this — to do so in a way that improves the reputation of the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e124	It is an interesting question that the representative fleet asks, whether it damages the industry's reputation, and whether something should be done with the agricultural contract institute, as I understand the question. I think we need to keep the Agricultural Agreement Institute. It allows for influence on the part of business organisations, and at the same time they have to take responsibility for overproduction, to put it simply. So the agricultural agreement system is important and must be defended. That we get this kind of discussion, I think it's pretty logical in a society where there's openness and we want a political discussion. The fact that the requirement is significantly higher than the offer and that the result is slightly higher is also logical. I believe that the result of the agricultural agreement this year is good for Norwegian agriculture. It gives income opportunities beyond what other groups have, as a percentage, it gives a crown-like development compared to other groups when one rains like that. The starting point for it is that one starts at a very low level. But doing something about the system means I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e133	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions. The president announced three follow-up questions, but in addition, the representative Abid Q. Raja has also asked for a follow-up question, and is given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e138	The agricultural settlement of the year has several sides. The final contract profit or loss does not provide an income promise that provides the basis for the necessary faith in the future. We've looked at the reactions of the farmers. An area that is important for both quality of life and recruitment is the possibility of regular holidays and leisure time. A 2008 survey showed that half of those asked leave less than three weeks. Each 12th farmer does not have a holiday at all. It may be difficult to get a replacement, you can't afford to take a vacation. The negotiating committee thought there was a need for 7 pst. increases in grants to welfare schemes, including: for holidays. In the final agreement, there was only 4 pst. How has the Council of State intended that the farmer should take part in the development of wealth also in terms of holidays and leisure time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e147	The most important thing for the farmer in relation to various welfare schemes is that he has an income he can live on. This means that in the development of income, there are also appropriations for redundancy grants and holiday and leisure schemes, which are part of the total package. There was an agreement on 4 pst. I think that's a fairly correct result. There was an agreement on a frame of 1.4 billion. kr. It provides an increase for Norwegian farmers who are significant and who are in line with what we have managed to achieve in increasing income opportunities over many years. The total development since 2006 is DKK 110 000. It should provide confidence in the future for Norwegian farmers that the red-green government is involved in delivering such good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e152	Abid Q Raja – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e155	The Vara representative first thanks the President for speaking time! The agricultural settlement of the year contains several elements. In particular, the value of the promised tax changes related to social security contributions, agricultural deductions and the food production charge is estimated to be 400 million. kr in the farmer's favor. In the view of the Left, this presents us with a major democratic problem. In the form of a letter, the Minister of Finance, the Bondelag, informs that these changes will be proposed in the context of the 2012 government budget – long before the Stortinget has received the same information. The conclusion of the agreement shall read as follows: «These two letters have been used by the parties as part of the basis for the premises of the contract concluded.» In reality, if the agreement on agriculture is approved, the Stortinget also adopts tax changes for 2012 before the Stortinget sees the context of fiscal policy. Not least because the government has promised to keep the overall tax package unchanged in 2012, it means that there are some others who have to pay the tax bill to the farmer without knowing who today. Does not the Council of State see the democratic unhappiness in this? And who is it that the Council of State might send this bill to – to business or to most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e171	Major structural changes have been made in several contexts of the agricultural agreement. The discussion has also dealt with tax matters in previous agricultural settlements. I see that it can be a challenge. At the same time, it is quite clear that the budgetary implications of changes in food production fees, etc. will be included in the budget for next year. It will be part of the proposals put forward by the government in October. It will be that we continue to keep the tax policy and the promises that have come there, and we will then come back to how we solve the budgetary adjustments that must result from this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e176	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e179	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has recently been in Brussels at the EEA Council meeting, and he has been here and explained afterwards. One of the themes was the third EU postal directive. It is natural for Norway and Norwegian enterprises to benefit from access to the EU’s large internal market for 17–18 years, and the possible negative consequences of a conflict with the EU are difficult to understand. However, with its position on the Postal Directive, the government has created an unnecessary uncertainty. Because while our dynamic state enterprise The Post is asking for full access and competition in a market they define as their domestic market, i.e. Nordic, the government, and in particular the Centre Party and SV, has apparently been more concerned with testing EEA cooperation. Let me quote from yesterday's speech by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which mentions Norway's position on EU directives in general, which gives rise to optimism: ‘We are well served by Norway’s adherence to these directives, not from a forced point of view, but because Norway, perhaps above all some, has served with uniform legislation, equal playing rules, predictability and recognition.’ [[...]] That is well said, and in line with the view of the Right. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also made it clear that he is now entering into a negotiation process with the EU and will not pre-empt the outcome. In other words, the outcome of the negotiations will be crucial for the Norwegian position. This is also referred to in Today's Business Today. Thus, the right of reservation, to which other government parties still refer, was not mentioned. My question to the Minister for Transport will then be whether she also sees the possibility that we can clarify the ambiguities and find a agreed solution as a way out of this mess. Or is the requirement that the right of reservation be applied in any case?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e197	The Government has decided to make known to the EEA Committee that we wish to benefit from the right of reservation in connection with the third EU postal directive. The reason is the peculiar quality of our society that we want to keep, which relates to post-transmission six days a week, mail at the same price, that's the one-porto. We have carried out five distributions where the consequences for those added, the pay and the employment of those added are also a central element. That's the background. Then there are certain procedures associated with this. The first was to inform the Stortinget. It's done. This is about informing our partners in EFTA. Then it's the EEA Committee. There was a meeting of the EEA Council on Monday, and that was where the Foreign Minister did well for Norwegian views. I don't want to advance the way these negotiations are going. It goes without saying that it's wise to wait for them to walk. There is a procedure under Article 102 for the management of the right of reservation. It's the one that's now being followed. It goes without saying that the government here agrees on that further passage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e206	President, it is possible that you perceived a clear answer here – at least I did not. The Minister of Transport accused us the other day of wanting to raise Norwegian standards in our society on board with a pen stroke, as she said. It's a pretty strong claim when we know that we want others to get together and to be able to bear the qualities of our society, that's a free and competitive business. No country has, as it is known, isolated itself from growth and progress. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Transport quite specifically what she refers to as Norwegian qualities, namely six days' travel and one-porto for letters under 50 grams. Where does the third EU Postal Directive state that Norway cannot maintain this by incorporating the Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e216	What is presented in this directive – and in the light of the provisions of the Ministry of Transport – is that there is pressure on the one-person portfolio, on six days' pay and working conditions for postal agents. So it's that way that we can have different approximations to different directives. Here I thought we must have respect for different views. I can't, like Halleraker and Right, embrace every new directive that comes in. There are many directives here that need to be looked at with a critical look. We have recently had a round on another directive in this way, the Data Storage Directive. So when it comes to the Postal Directive, the government agrees on the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e223	Three questions have been asked and given rise to follow-up – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e226	This just becomes more and more unclear. First of all, the Minister of Transport is now saying the exact opposite of what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said yesterday. Because while the Minister of Transport is now saying that the government has decided that it wants to exercise the right of reservation, yesterday the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that I will not rule out that we can agree with the EU. Then, if you're going to make a reservation, there's got to be something to reserve against. I have understood that what you're concerned about is six days of mail distribution, that's unit price, and that's good working conditions. Then I must be allowed to repeat the question from Øyvind Halleraker: Where in the postal directive is it said that it will not be possible to maintain six days of mail distribution? Where is it said that it is not possible to maintain the unit price? And what would it mean for it to go beyond the working conditions for the distribution of less than 50 grams? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e233	The president wants to reserve himself against people not respecting speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e236	Let me make it quite clear: the impact of the third postal directive was important for the government to gain more knowledge about what the text of the directive is like. Thus, the Soria Moria Declaration explicitly reported. It was reported that we delayed the implementation, and it was reported that we wanted to acquire knowledge. We got knowledge, and we went through the different things very carefully. This is the background. The government can't tell us that we'll use the reservation right if we're not in advance. But then it is clear that the outcome of the negotiations we are going to enter into with the EU is no one to know at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e241	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e244	This isn't easy to understand. It seems that the right of reservation is used, but in the view of the Progress Party, it is not a sin that is applied to a matter of national importance, namely in the case of privacy and data storage. What remains as questions is whether the reservation will be lost in the dialogue, if this is only a game. When the Foreign Minister says, in any case in some context, that the dialogue can lead to the effective implementation of the Directive, there is considerable doubt as to whether this is a right of reservation with real content. What is the Minister of Transport's view that this dialogue can actually lead to the postal directive being introduced anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e249	In fact, I think it is important to stick to the procedures that have been set up for a case like this, and which is thus set out in Article 102, which tells about both cancellation in turn and order and about negotiations. I find it neither right nor possible to say in advance how these negotiations will proceed. What is our point from the Norwegian government is that there are qualities in today's postal delivery that we want to deliver, and that is why we have notified what we have notified the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e254	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e257	There is a collective opposition that is somewhat confused. I think it's going to be taking things in the wrong order to say that here we have to make a reservation. The most important thing is what we do in dialogue with the EU in relation to a good postal service for the whole country and that we ensure good working conditions. That's the most important thing. We had a debate on the Data Storage Directive. At that time there was a split government, and it was suggested from the big government party that this could be a danger to the EEA Agreement. So my question to the trade union council now is: is there a collective government that can confirm that we can use the right to reserve and still retain a good EEA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e264	On Friday we had an extensive discussion based on an interpellation on the Postal Directive, where I did more of a good thing for an uncertain moment that pertains to the EEA Agreement. We believe that what can be suspended in this case is the first and the second postal directive – i.e. no particularly extensive suspension. But there is also something that will come out of the negotiations, or the dialogue that is to take place. Let me end by stressing that I am completely in agreement with Hareide – or Hareide is completely in agreement with the government – that the goal here is to keep post-oppression for six days, a uniform sport and pay and working conditions that they are currently adding to the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e272	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e275	We have experienced a communication revolution that has simplified and streamlined our societies. But it's also made us more vulnerable, and I'm thinking about telecommunications. If he collapses, our country will stop more or less. On May 18th we experienced a fiber fraction at Telenor in the West. 23 000 customers lost mobile/fixed-phone connection. We know that parts of Hordaland and Rogaland were unconnected with NetCom's network. 5 pst. by the 2G senders. 10 pst. The 3G transmitters were framed. On May 23rd, we experienced a new fiber fraction. There was a rough tree and a slightly overly rough excavator that resulted in that over ten counties were rammed. We experienced that aircraft were put on the ground – all air traffic north of Trondheim was cancelled, among others. Because of these two relatively innocent events. After the dramatic event of 28 November 2007, when a short stop to Oslo S led to a power surge of more than ten hours, we also experienced a social crisis. We can never secure ourselves against such serious events, especially if groups deliberately work to put the system out of play. After the kind of random events we have now had, which affect the system, my question to the Council of State is: How does the government work to ensure safe and stable communication systems? Then I think about the phone and the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e284	Let me first concentrate on the last event, May 23rd. The postal and telecommunications authorities are now making a major effort to clarify what really happened. That means that a report is to be drawn up, and then we have to look at how it is to be followed up. When it comes to social vulnerability and security, otherwise, the Ministry of Transport is one of several. Post and telecommunications are the responsibility of the Minister for Transport. The Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness is under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. But let me say, what happened on Monday, in addition to the previous events, is a reminder that we still have to do what we can to ensure security – beyond what we have seen in these cases. The railway works are responsible – the railway infrastructure was listed here. Everyone has their responsibility, but it's the Ministry of Justice that's responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e291	After the 2007 debate – which was due to the event on 28 November 2007 – there was a discussion about which department is responsible. It was then made clear that the Ministry of Transport is responsible for our telecommunications. What I think is serious is that we have now seen how these types of random events are involved in networking. When one gets two events relatively simultaneously, we get a domino effect that makes the system collapse in a relatively short time. So ten counties are going to be framed because of two small events. My questions are: These are random events, but what does the Council of State think if groups deliberately want to hit this network? When we see how vulnerable this is to random events, what is it not if a worker is conscious of paralyzing this network?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e300	I think that in the middle of all our technology, in the middle of everything we think we both have an overview of and – shall we say – can take care of in every detail, this is how vulnerable we really are. It's a powerful reminder that we have to get all the sides of what happened this time. Then we have to have contingency plans that range longer than they do today. Then we can forget that the error was found, and that the contact was made over the country in a short time. But we have a vulnerable society, and we need to put even greater emphasis on security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e307	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e310	I hear that the government is not very convincing in terms of crisis management, but the government is not very firm in terms of daily coverage either. One thing is that I am happy that the Council of State stresses that it is important with security and good network, but it is also important that everyone should have the right to have it. I know that the Council of State has been busy and repeatedly promised that there will be full mobile coverage throughout the country. At the latest today, I was in contact with a colleague of the central party – an excellent rapporteur in the municipality of Iveland, which is my neighbouring municipality. When I spoke to him on the phone, it scrambled – it hacked. Unfortunately, almost half of the population in the municipality does not have good mobile coverage. The council has repeatedly said that full mobile coverage should come, and we both – both the central party rapporteur and I – wonder very much: When will full mobile coverage come?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e317	The mobile coverage in Norway is actually among the best in the world, despite the fact that there are undoubtedly many places where the coverage is not good enough. That's because we've been working systematically. Both actors, such as their own networks, Telenor and NetCom, have shown on a commercial basis that they can and will expand, and we now have permission for a third network, which we believe will benefit the districts. But then there is this combination between the commercial and different local and regional split layers to get things done and to get better coverage. We've seen that in some states, not least the Agder model is well worth paying attention to. Local authorities, county councils, companies and the state have joined forces to get things in place. I can't mention an end date here or now, but what I can say is that developments here are getting better year after year, thanks to these spice layers that have been in place, where also the state has funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e326	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e329	It is quite frightening that a excavator or two can put half of Norway out of play, at least in the case of large, important areas of society in Norway such as telecommunications and air traffic. The Council of State's response is that the Post and Telecommunications Authority will produce a report and come back, and that we are all concerned about looking at this issue. More than ten years ago, the Vulnerability Committee delivered its opinion on what had to be done to improve safety in Norway. I feel that there is a lot left when it comes to following up the recommendations that the Vulnerability Committee made at the time. Doesn't the Council of State think it might be time for a new vulnerability analysis to look at our society and what challenges we have? There has been a technological revolution in the last ten years that means that a new vulnerability analysis should definitely be in place to look at just how to secure our society. Two excavators or three can't be what's going to knock out our entire community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e336	I am responsible for my field, and I have shown that it is the Post and Telecommunications Authority that is actually the actor in the field, who follows questions like this, who needs to draw up a report that we must follow up afterwards. But there's work going on in the government that's led by another government council, where we're one of several pieces. For this reason, when it comes to the big message of vulnerability and social security, when it comes to following up the selection setting, etc., single state councils are responsible for each of their areas, and then we have a common responsibility led by another state council. I would like him to know more about the details there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e342	Lars Myraune – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e345	I am pleased that the Council of State is working hard to get more mobile coverage across the country, and as the Council of State knows, the youth does not settle in the country until they know that there is mobile coverage there. I want to go back to the main question from the representative Hareide, who's on security. As the Council of State itself said, we have become more vulnerable in today's society. That's absolutely right. Then it's important that we take some action to make sure that we become less vulnerable. Now it is the case that the Council of State has previously said that the actors themselves, who are expanding both broadband and mobile networks, are responsible for it. I guess that's okay. In relation to their performance, they're going to put up a system that makes them say that we don't need more lines than we can have coverage for economics. Then, in my opinion, it is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that this is not so vulnerable. That's why I ask, what has the Council of State done to make demands on the actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e354	The last thing that's been done is the announcement of the so-called digital dividend, that is, frequencies that have been available. We now have a hearing with deadline of 5 June, in which the actors themselves are allowed to respond to certain demands. Developments are required to participate in the auction to be held over these frequencies to the house. That auction will mean too much broadband, and may also mean a lot for the mobile network. The final requirements in connection with that will come back when the hearing is cleared. But let me say, we're constantly concerned about where the boundaries are going between demands and commercial operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e359	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e362	It is good that the Minister of Transport is still in place, because of course it is to the Minister of Transport I have to ask questions. We have a zero vision to reduce the number of accidents on our roads. I feel a little bit like the government's zero vision for maintenance, as much is about zero improvement and zero progress. This government – and in particular the central government partner – says that it is concerned about and has as its motto that the whole country should be used. Yes, if you're going to put the whole country into service, infrastructure is crucial for success or failure. During the six years of the Central Party, the Minister of Transport, we have heard every year the following: We have granted more money than any government before us, this budget is a historic budget, we build our roads, we have stopped the fallout on the road network, we have to expand even more – we just have to wait for the next national transport plan. After summarizing all the statements, you'd think that here people would be happy, but then one: Most people feel that it's far from the content of the boast and in the tribute numbers to what they see, the realities. Just two days ago, a poll showed that 70 pst. of the Norwegian people are dissatisfied with the roads. And not enough with that: the greatest dissatisfaction comes from people in District Norway and in North Norway. It's perhaps a little surprising with the Center Party, which likes to call itself the District Party, in government. This cannot be seen as anything other than that the government and the minister are on complete collision courses with people most. And the answer from the government councillor Meltveit Kleppa is that we build and repair the roads, and that we have stopped the decay. The question is whether the Council of State is satisfied with that 70 pst. of the Norwegian people are dissatisfied with the road standard, and whether it is okay for the government to pursue a policy that will make people at least as happy when the Stoltenberg government leaves in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e373	This inquiry is an inspiration to continue our work, both with maintenance and renewal, and with building safer and better roads. And then I want to thank Hoksrud for the summary that he did. She's reasonablely precise, like he started out, but then he came to point to the next national transport plan, and that's a solid misunderstanding. There will be a new national transport plan in spring 2013. We are now working on the content of that plan, but in the meantime there is very important maintenance and renewal work on the Norwegian road. There's a lot to do again. There are many bad roads in this country. I understand that many people answer that they are not satisfied with the road standard. I had probably actually been surprised if everyone were satisfied with the standard that is now. But unlike Hoksrud, luckily, there's a part that sees it's improvement. It concerns both maintenance and renewal, and in fact it also builds quite a lot of new and safer roads. When it comes to stopping the decay, we asked the State Road Administration: What do they need in 2011 to stop the decay? They said, after today's calculation models -- 550 million. kr. They've got the money. That means that the decay will be halted in 2011, and we're starting to resume. Now I think Hoksrud travels quite a lot around this country, and then he will see that there is a good deal of road work going on – fortunately. Some of it is maintenance, and something is building new roads, based on an ambitious national transport plan today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e384	I realize that the Council of State was not happy when I came to reality. In Norway, we have a government government in the form of protection authorities. Nearly every road development creates problems for the protection authorities that make it difficult to expand or that cause costs to fall. We've got nesting hubs in Trøndelag, we've got island sticks in the West and pictures in Finnmark, and we've got birds and potato fields in Hedmark, just to name a few. All of this means that roads need to be converted or reduced. In addition, it has been decided that a number of new species should also be protected, which further reinforces the challenges. It is not strange that it is expensive to build roads and infrastructure in this country when such considerations have to be taken into account. But, as we know, politics about art is a priority. That's why I wonder if the Council of State can say something concrete about how much extra costs all the protection and species considerations, rarities and perhaps specialities impose on society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e391	I thought Hoksrud here also gave a nice overview of the dilemmas that we can now come up with in relation to the laws that Stortinget has made, which are the law of managing nature's diversity. It's a law that's adhered to here. So there's a law that you have to consider, as well as a lot of other laws to build a road. I don't have an overview -- I'm most in doubt about someone who has it at this point in time, because it's the way that some of these species come for a day after a time when a place is planned. I know the exact amount on fv. 714, where a new bridge was absolutely necessary between Hitra and Frøya. There was a bridge planned ten years ago that was not approved by the environmental authorities – then a new location and now back in the original place, 100 million. kr from the country side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e398	Three follow-up questions are raised – first from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e401	We hear that the Council of State talks hot, both on the outside and on the inside, about everything that is going on in maintenance on our roads and within transportation. But the Council of State’s own body, the Nation, indicates that 70 p.m. the population is dissatisfied with the standard. In North Norway, it's 90 pst. by the people who think we have a terrible standard on our roads. Is it so that 70 pst. of our population and 90 pst. the population of Northern Norway is completely wrong in terms of road standards in Norway? Or is it that the Council of State is on a completely different planet?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e408	I don't think the nations would agree to be the Council of State's own newspaper – to have said that. I don't know what's going on, but I've got to the representative Hoksrud and also separate times before this collapse, but there's a lot of bad roads in this country. But there's an improvement. I understand that Fredriksen doesn't see that improvement at all. It must be up to him to evaluate, but even in Fredriksen's own homeland, there is now an important project going on – E6 west of Alta and east of the Church. So there is a very important maintenance and renewal work. I would have been surprised if everyone in this country said that everyone was as good, because they aren't. But we're following a plan for continuous improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e418	Despite repeated boasts about our own and the government's efforts in the field of transport, we are constantly receiving reports that people out there are becoming more and more dissatisfied. It might be time to take this over. It is not certain that the brilliance helps, but that it is actually action and will for reform and innovation that must be done. This government thinks old-fashioned in the field of transport. That's what we see the results of. Neither traffic safety nor maintenance will satisfy this government. I can mention another newspaper, today's Trønderavias, which has a large report that salmon is being destroyed on Norwegian roads, because the road quality is so poor. When will this Council of State and the Government take this on board and implement reforms that really work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e427	Laying 1000 km of new asphalt on our national roads this summer calls Halleraker 'old-fashioned'. Maintaining our roads so that they can better cover, renewing, clearing side terrain, making our roads safer, calls Halleraker – as I understand it – «old-fashioned». It's actually so that it's necessary, and there's good methods of cleaning up our roads. It is also true when it comes to building new and better roads. So I know that Halleraker is in charge of other forms of funding, and so it is that both in terms of organisation and funding, we have distributions that will be ready for discussion in connection with a new national transport plan. We're also trying out some new ways to organize maintenance and construction now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e434	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e437	Some of the great dissatisfaction with the Norwegian road network I believe that there are a lot of people looking at Sweden, and that we have a significantly better name there. We know that in 2010 it was built 20 km with middle parts in Norway, while it was built over 200 km with middle parts in Sweden. We saw what happened in Westfold as we got a place middle parts there. Then the fatal accidents went down by 90 p.m., while road traffic increased by 40 p.m. We know that the road directorate in Sweden has a different standard for when it can be built middle parts, than the standard we have in Norway with regard to the width of the road. There is also a problem that several Swedish roads are wider than the Norwegian ones. So my question is, is it relevant for the Council of State to look at what standards are underlying when we build central areas in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e444	The answer to that is yes. There is already a work being done. In June, the state Road Service was given the time to come up with an assessment of the existing service and the availability of greater flexibility, especially for off-road routes on the road network we have today, and they are also asked to review the plans for the future, to look at the need for greater flexibility. It is true that it is annual traffic that is an important criterion for mid-term care today. And then I have to add something that I think Hareide and I'm a few, and that's that we have different names in Norway and Sweden. We build roads in the whole country in a different way than Sweden does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e451	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e454	It is quite a fact that there is a great aftermath on Norwegian roads, and we in the left are very concerned that we have to make the Norwegian roads safer and build several middle parts. In the transport sector, the Left was informed by the Council of State in a written reply last week that the NSB has been delayed in insane 30 200 hours since the 2009 fallout – with a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars, perhaps up to a billion. On the same day that the left received the Minister of Transport's response, there was again a signal error and a train stop throughout the Oslo area. The council has said several times today that she does not have the full overview of some things, but we have now been informed from the Progress Party what we Norwegians think about Norwegian roads. What I'm asking is what the Council of State thinks, maybe ticks, a similar poll would show what we nordics think about the NSB and the railway offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e463	What is at least the case with rail is that if we look at winter last year – punctuality and delay hours – we were at the bottom of Scandinavia. If we look at winter this year, tell the corresponding numbers that we're on top. There is something to say that it benefits from the maintenance and renewal work under way, both the large Oslo project that will be completed in 2012 and the maintenance and renewal work that will take place on the other tracks. Then I don't care about spending time speculating about investigations that are not intended. I'm glad there are more people who are happy this year than last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e470	Then we go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e473	Then I can relieve the Minister for Transport and ask a question to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. She is responsible for the framework conditions of the farming industry, and part of the responsibility must be the overall behaviour of the authorities towards the industry. That is why the long-standing conflict between the industry and the Directorate for Nature Management is also part of her extended responsibilities, where the Directorate politicises its activities. The right has addressed this many times with the Minister for Fisheries. The last turn of this is that the organisations of the farming industry had to wait nine months to get a response on the ground figures from the wild game management. When they reminded them of this, and informed the Business of the day that they had reminded them, they received a reply from the directorate that they were almost less gifted who could not find out for themselves. In extending this response, Terje Aasland, the head of the Business Committee, said on Monday this week to Today's Business that he would be ‘fully matted’ by such conduct from the Directorate. He strongly disagrees with the way industry is treated – he is responsible for it in the committee – and he says that political authorities can no longer sit and watch the directorate act more and more politically in many cases. In fact, there is a majority in the Stortinget – if he represents the Workers' Party – who believe this. My question is: does the Council of State of Berg-Hansen share the concerns of Terje Aaslands and of the Right about how the farming industry is treated, and what can she do to reduce the concerns of the committee leader, my concerns and the concerns of the farming industry about this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e486	The representative of the Fleet here, as I see it, is a criticism of the Directorate of Nature Management and their openness. It is a body subject to another State Council, namely the Minister for the Environment, and the Minister for the Environment is, of course, responsible for the public and administration of the Directorate for Nature Management. The agencies for which I am responsible practice more openness. I am very concerned that all the knowledge that my offices have, whatever professional questions, is being made public. However, the issue related to the Directorate for Nature Management must almost be addressed with the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e494	This was no criticism of the directorate. I initially said that I was fully aware that it was not the responsibility of the Council of State. My criticism is what the government council responsible for the farming industry is doing to improve the overall management of the government she represents. It also includes, of course, what the Directorate of Nature Management does, and how they talk to their Council of State. Now I understand that committee leader Aasland has been planning to talk to State Councillor Solheim. But I would hope that during the time she has been in the ministry, the Minister of Fisheries and the Coast has also been given the opportunity to talk to the Council of State of Solheim about this. So I'm essentially repeating my question about what she can do to reduce the concern that very many now have. And then I'm talking to the State Council Berg-Hansen and not DN.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e501	What I am responsible for is the management of the aquaculture industry and the further impact of the aquaculture industry on the wild species. The wild salmon and the management of the economic part of the wild salmon have been assigned to the Minister for the Environment. I and the Minister for the Environment have good dialogue. We arranged, among other things, a joint knowledge seminar to gain knowledge, where our underlying agencies of course participated in that area. We have now seen that the Marine Research Institute and the NINA have cooperated on knowledge related to the wilderness axis and its challenges. My approach to the aquaculture industry related to these issues is precisely to focus on the challenges that the aquaculture industry poses to the wild. Of course, I am committed to getting as good a knowledge base as possible in order to contribute to the success of the objectives we have in terms of an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e510	Two additional questions have been asked and are raised – first Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e513	SINTEF Fisheries and aquaculture believes that farms are likely to be positive to the wild fish stocks around the farms and that there are no scientifically recognisable studies to reflect fishermen’s views on how the farming industry affects wild fish around those holdings. Scientific advice for salmon management today presents its annual report, the main conclusion of which is that more salmon populations are now at risk of extinction and that salmon and escaped farmed salmon are the cause. How does the Minister for Fisheries view the conflicting research reports available and will the Council of State take action to ensure that the administration is more interconnected?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e522	The report to which it is referred, which is to be presented today after what I am familiar with, naturally I have not read – nothing other than what is written in the media. There has been cooperation between researchers on knowledge acquisition and knowledge building. Two other reports are also published. One is from the Marine Research Institute, for which I am responsible, and then there comes one in addition, to which it was referred. Here – as otherwise – the researchers of course do not always agree. I think we should be happy that we have more research environments that contribute to good debate and good knowledge. I'm sure it'll strengthen the research. Then it's us politicians who get to draw the essence out of it, and take the conclusions that research has to give in relation to the management of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e529	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e532	I just want to point out that the answer that the Council gave to the agent Fleet, in many ways, shows just the problem that we have different types of agencies that speak differently, but like the same area. But what is important is that the government speaks with the same tongue and the same message. It is a further worsening of the problem that the Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is speaking the business of the industry in an excellent way, and then we have a councillor, Solheim, who appears in the background at regular intervals, and makes some statements in his area that create great uncertainty. I want to grasp one of the things that the Directorate of Nature Management has been very persuasive. Of course, it is related to the influence of salmonids from farms on wild-tailed populations. It turns out that there is very little research that shows the direct causality of how salmonitus affects the wild species, and whether it is actually the trigger. That's why it's important that we get knowledge in this field. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State take an initiative to give us an independent research, preferably under the direction of the Institute of the Marine Research, which will look at the causal link between salmonmus and the influence of the wild stocks? Then we can once and for all have discussed research-based knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e541	The government speaks absolutely in the same voice as regards the importance of the aquaculture industry. That's what we're gonna do in Soria Moria. Minister for the Environment Erik Solheim is the one who has gone all the way to reflect the importance of the farming industry. He even says that the breeding industry is a diamond that needs to be whitewashed. So there's no doubt that we fully agree on the meaning of that industry. Then there's a question of the importance of the industry to the wild and, on this question, the importance of salmonnus. We have scientists who are independent, in many environments, who are researching the effects of salmon and salmon. It is a strength in Norwegian research that we have independent researchers who come with their knowledge. Here, as usual, we need to gain more knowledge and broader knowledge. The most important thing I have been busy since I came in has been to ensure that the wild axis can wander into the sea in the spring. It's done that in the last two years. I sincerely hope it does this year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e548	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e560	There will be two changes to the configured question list. The President refers to the list distributed at the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative of Mr Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Justice, has been withdrawn. Question 5, from the representative of Olemic Thommess to the Minister of Culture, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e575	‘The Councils of State were very concerned about the safety of traffic data storage. However, Stortingen has adopted a tightening of storage and deletion of traffic data, which is one of the most stringent in Europe. Now it shall be possible to obtain letters and other in the electronic mailbox as an alternative to the more ageing ordinary mailbox. How will the Council of State organise security around the digital services of the Post?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e587	I know that I have expressed concerns about the security of traffic data storage in electronic communications. Following the Storting decision to introduce the Data Storage Directive, an enormous amount of data will be stored in the future by over 200 providers of electronic communications. Many of them have procedures for storing and deleting data, but several of them do not because they have no obligation to store data. I have no doubt that all the providers will do what they can to meet the requirements of the laws, but my concern is that the small providers do not have the same resources as the large ones to meet the requirements. Setting up good data storage and security systems can be economically demanding for the small ones. On the other hand, I am not worried about the item’s security measures in relation to digital services. The entry is a large player with resources to manage large amounts of data safely. Digipost is a new digital mail system for important mail, and it should be possible to send any type of document through the solution. The solution has therefore been developed with a very high level of security. Digipost has been launched with the same security as in online banks. Reading messages is encrypted and all messages and personal data are stored in line with the requirements of the personal data law. The post has a good dialogue with the Data Protection Authority, and they consult on the supervision of any major changes related to security. Whether the new service Digipost should be a success for the Post, it is absolutely necessary that they take the security seriously. I have great faith in that they do, and the Post itself says that security is the most important thing in the development of Digipost.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e598	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and briefly link some comments to what the Council of State spent most time on. So, despite the Council of State, the Storting got into a law that we didn't have before, for securing traffic data. We also got a frame-up and a protection of privacy in a completely different way from what we have today, which is likely to be one of the most stringent things we have in Europe. So to the Post and Digipost: I have to say that I am well pleased with the intention and intention of the Council of State to ensure that we are more likely to retain what is the content of letters that are to be sent to us through this digital mailbox, and that we use the bank, banking services and network services as a starting point. I want to follow up anyway, because although we have the Post today, there may be other actors. Is the Council of State concerned with thinking about concession, authorization, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e605	Yes, all the applications that might have to come, we have to evaluate very carefully, precisely for security. Let me say that when it concerns the Post, they use accepted standards throughout the entire solution. Digipost benefits, for example: the following known hedging mechanisms: authentication of users at security level 4 on registration and for all messages with sensitive information Encryption of all traffic Encryption of all documents stored unique encryption keys per user to store all personal documents possibility for end-to-end encryption on message from senders to Digipost possibility for signing messages from senders' machines to Digipost event registration to signed logs In addition, the Post Norway has regular dialogue with the Data Protection Authority, and they consult on all major changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e634	Then at least the Council of State shows that it is possible to encrypt, and that it is done in a large way. But I'll follow up anyway, because in the future it might be that we got what you had at New Zealand, Jimmy's Post, that took mail delivery in rural areas, and there might come more actors than just a monopolist who delivers mail. Is it the case that the Council of State will ensure that you get concession rules if it should be applicable, and that there is authorisation for the staff who are going to be able to enter and store this type of post, so that I can get it in my mailbox? Will it set track, so that I can know who it is that has handled my post, in the form that you also have logging systems, in the same way that we got into the security that was tightened up for traffic data? In conclusion, 200 operators with electronic communications in traffic data can thus cooperate and make systems simpler and cheaper by associating with larger actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e643	What has been a dilemma so far with the Data Storage Directive is that it does not specify what to encrypt. There's a disturbance between small and larger players, because for the small natural ones, it's going to increase costs. Then, of course, there can be a change in the market towards larger players – that’s something I’ve pointed out before. But let me just stress when it comes to the Post, that, in addition to consulting regularly with the Data Protection Agency, they use reputable external companies for security testing. The last review gave a full score — seven out of seven possible points — no security stakes were found.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e656	My question also goes to the Minister for Transport: ‘The use of tolls to finance roads and other transport measures has increased under the red-green government. The government's signals are that the increase will continue, and that the use of tolls for things other than roads will be extended. So the government's transport tax will increase. There are now OECD observations that Norway should increase the cost of fuel and tolls throughout the road network, i.e. even more expensive transport, for climate reasons. Will the Council consider submitting a separate communication on the widespread use of tolls in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e665	I am aware of OECD assessments that we in Norway should increase the level of private car rental charges in order to achieve the target of reduced emissions. The size has joined the toll policy pursued in Norway — both through the management of the national transport plan and through the management of individual toll proposals. Tolls can now be used for roadside purposes and for investment and operation in public transport. This is the area of use for which the Storting has agreed by dealing with various legislative proposals in recent years. No proposals have been made for the extension of the scope of tolls beyond what is currently provided for by the Toll Code. Toll policy is naturally referred to in the national transport plan, so I do not intend to submit a separate communication on the use of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e676	That's too bad. Unfortunately, tolls are used after a long history in Norway. In the last decade, Norway has become much richer every year, while the use of tolls as an alternative to state funding of roads has increased sharply. In the period 2005-2009 – if we keep Oslopackak 3 out, even if it stands for 54 billion. kr – approved all lots, except for the Advance Party, projects for 36 billion. kr, there 26 br. kr was financed by tolls, but the total bill for the drivers was 36 billion. kr. So far in this period, the figures are 19 billion, respectively. SEK in investment, toll contribution of 11 billion. kr and a bill for the Transport taxes are high and increasing. Should not the Stortinge therefore make an overall assessment of the use of tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e685	The following two principles are fundamental to toll financing: local anchoring — projects must be based on local initiative and decisions — and the principle of usefulness. Those who pay should be useful, as well as those who benefit. So there's a pressure across the country to realize more road projects. Some of them have found their priorities and solutions in connection with their national transport plan. When any of the projects failed in an ambitious plan, however, were given place in a combination of tolls and state funding, it has the basis of local initiatives, either to support a project or to achieve it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e692	And it is that this alleged local pressure is due to a blackmail from central political authorities. But there is a well-known reason, and there is a reason that is used by all the other parties on the Stortinget to approve the use of tolls, that it is done on so-called local initiative. But there is not one toll project where local or regional residents have been asked in advance if they want tolls. One of the disadvantages of using tolls as a financing solution is that it incurs considerable additional costs, and I referred to it in the previous question, and I repeat it now. Purchase of road for hire costed 10 billion in the previous period. And so far, in this period, it's cost 7 billion. kr. It's a pretty comprehensive extra tax. But then I try again with the question of not the Storing for the sake of the extensive consequences, and not least for the sake of the extensive extra costs, can conduct a discussion on the use of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e701	Toll collection has a cost. Then it is important to have an effective collection system, so that as much as possible of the collected tolls are used to finance infrastructure projects. In connection with that, I have taken an initiative to collect different collecting societies in a maximum of one per county. It could mean a slightly less total amount compared to collection. It could mean more money. But every time there's a toll project ready to be realized, there's a discussion in Stortinget. So it's not like the Stortinget isn't allowed to say it in relation to the toll project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e717	The president was elected for approx. A minute and a half ago, the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen was not at the house, and I am sorry that the Council of State has not received that message before. Neither has the President. That means that question 3 cancels out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e731	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e745	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. The President is pleased that we have both the representative Svein Flätten and the Minister for Agriculture. So we go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e754	I'm glad to be able to help us get on with the program. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: ‘A farmer in Rogaland bought a small use from a neighbor. The total area was 125 dekar and is subject to concession. The area under cultivation is 20 decks and is below the price regulation limit. The bidding round gave a high price, as the property is almost freely negotiable. After the purchase, the municipality places as concession terms that the property coincides with the farmer's principal property, which is a regulated use, which will result in impairment of the new property. What will the Council of State do to avoid such results from the amendment of the law on price regulation on small uses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e765	Prices of agricultural property must be kept at such a level as to facilitate long-term ownership and provide opportunities for a useful economy for those who are to acquire and operate the agricultural property. It is to ensure that we have a price control when acquiring agricultural property. In deciding on applications for a concession for the acquisition of property to be used for agricultural purposes, it shall, inter alia: emphasis is placed on whether the agreed price accommodates socially sound price developments. I believe that this is an important and correct objective of agricultural property policy. At the latest in the context of amendments to the 2009 concession law, a majority of the Business Committee in Stortinget also stated that it is important to maintain price control. At the same time, the Committee signalled a desire to increase the rate of turnover of agricultural properties. This is the background to the adoption by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in 2010 of some changes in price controls, including: such that smaller, built-in properties are exempted from price control. The aim of this was to make rules easier to deal with, but also to allow that smaller agricultural properties where the housing function is more prominent than the business aspect could be traded at a price that is closer to market value. Therefore, when such property is purchased as additional land, the purchaser operates in a free market in terms of price. It follows from the Land Act that property purchased as additional land becomes a holding together with the buyer's former property. Therefore, sharing consent is necessary if the property is to be redivided afterwards. In addition, concession terms are usually set in the same way at the time of purchase. In my opinion, these conditions are something that the purchaser has to assess and take into account when buying property without price regulation as an additional land. I assume that the buyer of additional land is intended to operate agriculture on the property, and that the purchase is business based on this as a starting point. I do not see sufficient reason to change the decision that the price control should be reserved for properties of a certain size. I do not think the representative fleet wants to reverse this decoration that has recently happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e778	I thank you for the answer, which I am not satisfied with. What this detail of price regulation applies is that when you buy a use that is freely negotiable and not priced — perhaps at a very high price — to use it in agricultural terms, you are forced to add it to the main use. The total use is then subject to price regulation, and it simply means that the investment you have made becomes very uncertain — or not ‘uncertain’ — in value. At a time when farmers are asking for increased profitability and, not least, increased investment capacity, I believe that this type of regulation – this is a detail of price regulation – should be subject to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e785	As I said in my first answer, it follows from the law of the land that property purchased as an additional land is to be converted into one operating unit together with the buyer's former property. It is also true that when a property is purchased as an additional land, and you buy it below the price regulation limit, you have to operate in a free market in terms of price. And, as I said, there are conditions that the buyer must take into account when buying a property without price regulation as an additional land. It is clear that it may seem unreasonable for the person conducting such a trade, but at the same time it is the individual farmer and the individual business operator who has to assess the profitability and the appropriateness of operations, etc. in such a case, when you enter into a price agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e792	That's exactly where I'm in line with the Council of State. These are nutritionists who need to assess the risk. But that doesn't mean that you can't have flexibility in the law so that you can fulfill our desire that more people can drive, that more people can run profitable, even with additional soils. I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Council of State refers to the law of the land – yes, I know what it says in the law of the land, but the law of the land is, after all, not the Constitution, and it is not stoned that it must be. What I'm really asking the Council of State about here is, can he imagine looking at the law of the land, whether it might be possible for the farmers to achieve such flexibility? That's who I'm talking on behalf of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e799	I also see that the representative Fleet here is speaking on behalf of the farmer who is experiencing this situation, and probably believes that there is an unfairness in that law and practice we have today. It must also be said that there are many aspects of property law in agriculture that are for discussion and that we have also discussed in this Chamber. I'm one of those people who think that we have to constantly develop the law so that it fits with society, with operating patterns and the opportunities we have to run economically. So in this way, I follow the request from the representative of the fleet. I can stress that this issue – as well as other issues related to property law – is something we look at and work with in connection with the big message that we will later get to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e812	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Statskog SF bought in 2010 among others. Borregaard Skoger, etc. for SEK 1,725 billion kr. There is now an unwarranted amount of cutting in that part of the property that is located in Hedmark. The withdrawal now, as well as the announced withdrawals in the coming period, has doubled compared to the previous owner. Does the Council of State agree that this could be an irresponsible amount of cubic timber being extracted?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e821	The purchase of these properties provides State Forest SF with a better basis for efficient operation, while at the same time strengthening opportunities for hunting, fishing and outdoor life. This was also explained in Prop. 11 S for 2010–2011, and Stortinget underlined during her treatment of the case the same. State forest SF’s investment decision was commercially motivated, and the price was based on a thorough review of the property’s resources and income opportunities. This process included: discovered that the properties have significantly greater potential for logging than previously assumed. The main part of the value of the properties is linked to the harvest and sale of timber. The former owner has invested a lot in forest production and infrastructure, and I am well aware that it is now possible to increase the yield of the purchased properties. I assume that State Forest SF operates sustainable forestry, and indicates that State Forest SF must comply with the same rules as all other forest owners in this country. Environmental certification of forestry, in which State Forest SF is also involved, provides a high degree of internal control in the industry. The Forestry Act and its environmental regulations also provide a framework for activities, and Statskog SF must comply with them. I don't have the prerequisite to make any assessment of what is the proper logging of the individual property, either at Statskog SF or other forest owners. On a general basis, I would like to point out that increased activity in forestry is desirable as a basis for increased value creation and strengthening of jobs far beyond forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e834	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was an answer, but I guess I'm not quite satisfied with that. There are many in Hedmark who are concerned about the cutting that is now taking place in the properties of the former Borregaard Forests. There is an unwarranted cut, and the Vice-President of Elverum, the party colleague of the minister, says that he fears state robbery. That is what the rapporteur, who is a party colleague of the Council of State, says. When you buy a property at a high price, in this case at a price that most people who have prepared for the forest thought was too high, and at the same time you have a return claim of 7 p.m., the demand for money will mean that you have to cut a lot of timber. That's why many now are afraid that forests will be cut out and lost their value. They also lose value in many other ways. So that's what's in this question: that you fear state robbery because of high price and 7 pst. returns.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e843	I would like to stress that the price fixing in connection with the purchase of Borregaard’s various forest companies, among others. in Hedmark, was based on a thorough review also of the value of the forest lying there, and through that evaluation it was found that there was a significant possibility of higher forest extraction than Borregaard Forest had previously done. I assume, of course, that state forest, which is going to be commercially profitable, but which is also going to follow all the legislation on sustainable forestry, is doing the necessary balance-sheet assessments, so that it is doing well, but at the same time economically profitable. I have no reason to say anything but that it is also done through the plans outlined here for the activity in Hedmark in the future. So, as I said, this is the board's responsibility, and within the framework they have, they do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e852	I thank you once again for your answer. Of course, what is justifiable or not, can be discussed, but when a new owner in the current year chops up twice what the previous owner did – and the previous owner, Borregaard Forester, was a very skilled forest owner who drove the farm and the forest in a very sound and good way – and at the same time announces that it should be done for many years to come, it goes without saying that there will be little timber left after a few years. And then there are many, including the Vice-President of the Elverum, who says that this type of forest is unsavory. When we also talk about forest, I hope it will soon be a reaction to reselling part of the property you already have in Statskog. It is a different matter, but it is also mentioned in the context of this case that you have to get ahead of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e861	I am not familiar with the description that what Stadskog is planning to do is unwarrantable logging of the forest properties that they have acquired in Hedmark. I assume that Statskog, as said in my first post, operates a sustainable forestry, and that State forest deals with the same rules as all other forest owners in Hedland and elsewhere in the country. The assumption here is that they should operate commercially economically while at the same time complying with – call it – sustainability requirements imposed by the Forestry Act. With regard to the issue of the resale of properties, there is a matter that is being worked on, and one that of course will also follow up according to what the Storting has decided in the previous handling of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e870	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-25.ana.ud1979e883	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that the last representative in the Chamber does not ask for the floor before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has thus been cancelled.
