ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e104	The representatives of Erna Solberg, Ivar Kristiansen and Geir Pollestad, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Tina Bru, has now taken its seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Rigmor Andersen Eide on leave on days 8 and 9 December to attend the Bureau meeting of the Nordic Council in Reykjavik from the Workers' Group that the granted leave of the representative Torstein Rudihagen for the period from 5 December to 9 December is changed to sickness leave from 8 December until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for the Moor and Romsdal counties of Steinar Reiten and for the Uppland counties of Espen Granberg Johnsen, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e151	Steinar Reiten and Espen Granberg Johnsen are present and will take the seat. The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e156	On behalf of the big business representatives Solvency Horne, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to propose a representative proposal for a restructuring of the Norwegian Cultural Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e161	The representative, Frank Bakke-Jensen, will also put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e164	On behalf of Ivar Kristiansen, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I would like to make a proposal for increased access to fresh fish for the Norwegian agricultural industry and consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e169	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e209	President! The Presidency of the Grand Duchy today presents three positions on the pensions and allowances of the representatives of the Grand Duchy and the members of the Government. New pension schemes are proposed for both the representatives of the population and the members of the government, based on the same principles as old-age pensions. It is also proposed to revise the regulation on the remuneration of the depositors. These rules are so closely linked that the Presidency has considered it appropriate to treat the three positions together. The Presidency has long considered that the financial arrangements for large-scale representatives and government members should be consistent as far as possible with what is otherwise applicable in society, unless very specific circumstances indicate that they should have specially adapted arrangements. For the presidency, therefore, there has been a central point in setting up a scheme for policy-makers who are in line with the other through the provision of social security or occupational pensions, and a system for compensation and reimbursement of travel expenses, etc. which is in line with that of public sector workers. The Presidency of the Grand Duchy has long been aimed at revising the rules on the pensions of depositors. This was updated in the context of the work on modernised retirement pensions in the population. On 8 March 2007, the then presidency set up a sample led by the County of Sigbjørn Johnsen to ‘Propose proposals for a new pension scheme for large-scale and government representatives, in parallel with the introduction of a new popular-security model and in the context of the regular occupational pension schemes for civil servants’. The Pensions Committee presented its investigation to the Presidency on 9 June 2009. This was too late for the Storting to deal with and adopt a new pension law by the end of the previous parliamentary term. However, the presidency at that time considered it important that the new pension rules could be applied to new representatives from 1 October 2009. The Presidency therefore made proposals for an explicit reservation of the law in Section 12 of the Enlarged Pensions Act, which reads: ‘For those who have not acquired rights under this Act before 1 October 2009, a new law on pension entitlements for large claims representatives shall apply from that date.’;» However, the size did not decide when to implement the new pension rules for government members or for representatives who had earned pension entitlements before 1 October 2009. This has given rise to confusion about the Storting's intentions regarding the date of implementation of the new pension rules. After the 2009 elections, the new presidency immediately took up its work on pension schemes. The Presidency stated that the Stortinget should ask the Government to propose new legislation on pension schemes based on the guidelines given by the Stortinget and Pensions Committee. The majority took a decision on this on 10 December 2009. The Government has followed up the Stortings request decision in two steps. I Prop. 19 L for 2010-2011, the government submitted proposals for the adaptation of existing pension schemes for large-scale and state councils to modernised population benefits from 1 January 2011. New full pension schemes were also proposed for Supreme Court judges, the Civil Ombudsman and the National Auditor. This was adopted by law of 17 December 2010. But it was only now in the autumn that the government followed up the part of the Stortinget's request that went on new pension schemes for big business representatives and government members. From Stortinget took its request decision on 10 December 2009, so almost two years went by until the government advanced its bill in Prop. 9 L for 2011-2012. It's a long procedure. I would like to stress that the presidency has always had the clear premise that the new pension rules should be implemented as early as possible, in line with the intention of the Pensions Committee. This has also been communicated to the government in several meetings and in other contacts between the government and the presidency. The Government has asked the Ministry of Justice's legal department whether it would be contrary to the Constitution to bring the new rules into effect from the autumn of 2009. The Legal Service has concluded that the June 2009 legal reservation would allow the new rules to take effect from 1 October 2009 for representatives who had then not earned rights under the current pension scheme. However, giving the new rules effect from then on to government councils and past-earned representatives would be unconstitutional. The Presidency has taken note of the Constitutional Law Department. However, the Presidency is committed to implementing the new rules as early as possible, without conflicting with the Constitution. The Presidency proposes that the Act enter into force on 1 January 2012, but for those subject to the June 2009 Act, the rules will take effect as from 1 October 2009. The same applies to state councils which have not acquired rights under the applicable rules when the new law enters into force. For the remaining representatives and state councils, the delayed implementation means that they earn pension entitlements under the old scheme until the new law enters into force. It has not been given that everyone will benefit from it, but too many, and especially for the state councils, who have a particularly favourable pension scheme, mean that they will receive a higher pension than they would have received under the new scheme. It's unfortunate, and it hasn't been the intention of the Greatness or presidency. Nevertheless, it is important in this case not that, during a transitional period, anyone continues to earn according to old rules, but that two specific pension schemes should be abolished for politicians who have been perceived as unreasonably good, and that for the future, we should have a pension scheme based on the same principles as the old-age pension in the social security system. This reform will move from an unmistakably good pension system to a general good pension system, including for politicians. The new pension scheme provides for vesting for all years as a grossing-up representative or member of the government equal to the principle of annual earnings in the social security system. The accrued-to-date pension is provided to a pension fund, which can be collected flexibly from 62 to 75 years. The longer one waits to withdraw the pension, the larger the annual pension payment will be. The new pension shall be calculated as a net pension, i.e.: that it comes in addition to the second pension you earned. In the same way as in social security, the pension is to be adjusted by retirement and adjusted annually in line with the general wage growth. It has been a prerequisite for those who have acquired rights under the old pension scheme to retain them in full. This is also the basis of the new law. In general, the new pension scheme involves a narrowing down. It has not been relevant for the presidency to propose to compensate for the loss of the old pension scheme in the form of increased remuneration. With regard to the proposals for a new law and regulation on compensation for grossing-up representatives, this also has its background in the work on a new pension scheme for the grossing-up representatives. In connection with the suspension of the Pensions Committee, which also included proposals for new rules on remuneration, etc., the Presidency signalled that it would itself take the initiative to review current pay and waiting pay schemes. The Presidency proposes a completely new law on compensation for large-scale representatives and a supplementary regulation to the law. It is proposed that both legislation enter into force on 1 January 2012, at the same time as the new Pensions Act. Essentially, the current rules on remuneration and expenditure cover will continue, with some significant changes. Firstly, the current replacement and waiting compensation schemes are amended. The entitlement to retirement benefit is introduced for up to three months at the same level as the allowance, and then the two thirds of the allowance can be applied for up to 12 months. Both benefits are forfeited if you take permanent work or take out a full pension and are curtailed in the form of a crown against other earnings and entrepreneurial income, pensions, etc. For these two arrangements, the presidency's proposal is stricter than that of the Johnsen Committee. The Presidency also proposes to change the government's pay-as-you-go system, so that government members who go back to the Stortinget do not receive government compensation while receiving compensation from the Stortinget. Secondly, it is proposed to remove the special diet scheme for wholesalers. The representatives today receive diet money for 330 days a year. This may be seen as having ‘double diet’ representatives, for example. when on duty and receiving a diet in connection with it, in addition to the diet they receive each day. The Presidency is therefore in favour of tightening up the diet system, so that representatives no longer receive a diet regardless of whether or not they are away from their own home. In order to compensate for some of the loss of this money, the previously low diet rate is added as part of the fixed remuneration for all representatives. Those who commute to Oslo and stay on the furniture are subsequently paid a diet on demand, based on actual stays in commuting accommodation. A central objective of the presidency in the field of new pension and remuneration rules has been that representatives and state councils should have as much financial arrangements as possible in line with those of other communities. With the new legislation being presented today, I am sure that we have been cleared up in the particularly favourable arrangements that many have seen as unreasonable, and that we have been given a much better basis for the sound and fair management of our financial arrangements. Finally, I would like to thank for good cross-political cooperation, both in the Presidency and with the parliamentary leaders, in the comprehensive preparation of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e268	Let me start where the previous speeches ended and thank you for a good cooperation in the presidency and a good commitment among those who have their work here in the Storting, in this room. This has led us to arrive at a reasonably unanimous conclusion. I mainly agree with what the President-in-Office has said in this case, but I need to add some comments to the specific comments we have on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox There is no doubt that the government has spent a very long time on this matter. The reason for this is that these are difficult legal issues that need good clarification. But that means that when we get the matter from the government in November, we have very short time to deal with it in this room. We don't get the time we need, for example. to be able to obtain other legal considerations on these issues. That makes it necessary for us to get some comments in that way. We refer to the proposed law being put into force on 1 January 2012. Then we assume that it is not contrary to the Constitution and the applicable law. We would also like to point out that at the entry into force of 1 October 2013, i.e. at the beginning of a new ageing period, one would clearly have done so. So these are questions that we didn't have the time to go in. So it's also that it's been written and said a lot about this many places, not least in the media. I just want to refer to Today's Business Friday, October 21st, where the Right Per-Christian Foss speaks out. The paper writes: ‘Higher Per-Kristian Foss considers that the case now needs to be resolved by the effective date of 1 January 2011 of the new pension scheme for GSPs and government councils.’ It is then interesting to note that the Right now also supports the proposal on 1 January 2012. I expect – and look forward to – that the Right will explain why the last month has changed its position. I expect that the Right will take the floor in this debate and explain it. Finally, everyone agrees that there is a need to make changes to the pension scheme. By making changes to the pension scheme, changes to the total remuneration are also made to grossing-up representatives, an allowance consisting of ordinary remuneration and retirement. So you're essentially changing one element without doing anything to the other. Had it been done elsewhere in society, I think it had aroused considerable debate and not been accepted. But this with compensation is a question The Storting may come back on a later occasion because the Storting also determines its own remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e286	I would also like to begin by commending the presidency, perhaps the special prime minister, for the work of making changes to the arrangements for magnificence representatives – not least to lay the foundations of crystal clear, that they should be in line with the other groups in society, and that most people will thus see as reasonable. It is, in my opinion, a very important work that is being done now, and that will give a completely different legitimacy to the evidence, pensions and other arrangements that we as major representatives have. I've signed up for case no. 1, and then the representative Chaudhry will go through some points in the other matters afterwards. It is a good thing that we are now finally reforming the plans for depositors. Storing representatives have long had a gold pension that was not in a reasonable relationship with other pension schemes in society. SV has repeatedly, over many years, proposed to change them – abolish them and introduce another scheme. We've been tuned down here in the hall many times, partly by railing from the pulpit. Now there's at least one consensual cavern that goes in to do this. That's very good. In my opinion, however, it is also completely wrong to do so with effect from 1 January 2012 and not – which everyone has believed would be done – with effect from the beginning of this ageing period, October 2009. There are three key reasons for this: firstly, the intention of the Storting decision to restructure the large-scale pension scheme is completely crystal clear. This was to be done from the beginning of the period, autumn 2009. It is referred to in the Johnsen Committee, in the vote from the Presidency at the time, yes, the case-chairman of the case at the time, who is now a member of the Presidency – the representative of Korsberg – said: ‘The increase in our pension scheme was adopted and will apply to new representatives from the current harvest.’ So he said that from Stortinget's pulpit when he dealt with the matter on 10 December 2009. The same information is posted on Stortingen's website and communicated publicly. A read is available: ‘The new system is provided for large-scale representatives and government members with effect from the autumn of 2009.’; So we know what we're doing: it's communicated publicly, it's said here from the pulpit, it's in the setting. Secondly, I think it is totally wrong that we are now going to have a period of over two years, where the deposit representatives sitting next to each other here in the hall are getting different ignition. What everyone understands is reasonable, is that if you've been sitting 12 years on the Grand Council, you'll get an ignition for 12 years, and if you've been sitting for four years, you'll get four years. But now we get in that situation that e.g. On the very day of today, the representative Andersen and the representative Pedersen, or the representative Solhjell and the representative Thorkildsen, explore different pensions for this time, not because one does a better job than the other, or because we work more, but only because one has a longer seat on the Stortinget than the other – before. And it's totally unimaginable. It is an entirely unknown principle in the pension system that one should have a higher pension because one has been longer in a position, or appear for the specific year on the concrete day. It's totally unthinkable that we should have colliding representatives with a different kind of pension initiation, just as a pure premium for having a seat for several periods of accumulation before – that is, the ignition for this period. So it's going to be wrong with the different ignition. The relationship with the Constitution is extremely important, and I have carefully read the government's letter, where one does well for the Ministry of Justice's law department to assess the relationship with the Constitution. They're perhaps our top competence on that question. I myself have been in a situation where I have taken advantage of that competence and those assessments. I know that it's always important guidance. I know they're often right, and sometimes not. But it's guidance and advice to the nation's National Assembly, indirectly from the government. The decision of the Constitution on retroactive effect is very important to protect ordinary people from what one might consider to be an offence, that is, if the National Assembly adopts something that they are not part of – or hosts as an innocent third party, and that things that have happened before have consequences for them. But it can't be that Grundlova's spirit is to protect magnificence representatives from the consequences of our own decisions, at least not when we've fully understood what we're adopting, say it from here and write it in an attitude. So I think it's necessary to misunderstand, and that the correct understanding is that when the National Assembly – we who administer the law – makes a decision, we have to stand up for it, even almost three years later. To conclude, we knew what decisions we made then. We have to stand for it. Different attitudes towards retirement are unimaginable in these years. I think it will also stand as a decision. Then, too, the Storting will have changed its pension rules before the pension reform takes effect. There's a leader to go, not to come hanging out a little bit later. So it's good that we have to change those rules, but we should do it the way we've said before that we should do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e320	The centre party is pleased that we are now putting in place a new piece of legislation with supplementary provisions on the pension scheme for depositors. I am pleased that there is an almost unanimous presidency that supports the proposals that are being promoted, and that it is a complete revision of the previous system that has now been implemented, including in terms of remuneration and diet replacement. The new pension scheme is based on the same principles as a new retirement pension in social security. That's good – and absolutely necessary. The changes currently being made result in the overall remuneration for grossing-up representatives falling. It is positive and necessary that the conversion is based on the provisions of the Constitution that new legislation should not have retroactive effect. I believe that there will be a broad understanding that the transition will be so that those who have earned rights as depositors before the new law enters into force will retain them. Of course, it is regrettable that the audit work has taken a long time. I believe this is factually justified by the need for thorough investigations. So finally some words about the Storting's administration of the old scheme. It was recognised at an early stage that it is necessary that this pension scheme should also be managed best by a professional pension manager. I am pleased that it was the State Pension Fund. I have full confidence that we can now rely on clear rules, and that accurate and reliable information is provided to all members of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e331	The matter of the Stortinge is being discussed today, started quite exactly seven years ago when the then government presented the proposal for reform of popular security. The then government – and I had the pleasure of presenting that proposition to the Storting – wrote the following: «The Government will propose, in line with the proposals of the Pension Commission, that the rules of the statutory pension schemes for state councils and some other professional groups be amended at the same time and in accordance with the amendments to a new occupational pension scheme for civil servants. In this context, one will also consider the specific rules applicable to retirement. In the case of the Landlord’s pension scheme, it is up to the Storting to assess whether to make similar changes to that plan. However, the Government will recommend the Storting to make such changes.» It's been seven years, and it's too long. The fact that the Stortinget has ended up in a situation where the country's foremost legal environment outside the courts tells us that we will be in breach of the Constitution § 97 if we implement this earlier than at the coming turn of the year, for the groups mentioned here are the sole responsibility of the government – the government that is now in place. It is therefore strange that the SV parliamentary leader makes it a big point that the Stortinget has come into that situation, because that is actually the responsibility of the government. I must also say that on the part of the Christian People's Party, we have always been concerned that the Constitution § 97 must be overturned. Under this government we have experienced twice that the government has been miserable with its relationship with Section 97, and has been convicted for it. That was the relationship with the shipping tax, and it was the relationship with the Information Service Fund. I understand that representatives of the red-greens have a different view of the importance of the Constitution § 97 than what we have, and I think it is reflected in this case. But it's actually not like there's anyone in this room who wants to postpone the entry into force of this new pension scheme, which is high time we got. I refer to what was said already on 10 December 2004 from the then government about this. But it is the government's insidiousness in the proceedings, as explained in the presidency position, that has brought us into this situation. When the situation is like that, we think we have to deal with what the Department of Justice says. It's told a majority of the presidency about and took the consequences. It is a necessary renewal that takes place in the Storting's pension scheme and the Government's scheme. These arrangements are designed at a different time and for a different time. That is why it was quite timely for the Stortinget to take the initiative in 2007, to set up the Pensions Committee, and for the Pensions Committee to come up with a majority vote on how to adapt these occupational pension schemes to the principles of new people’s rights. There could be different ways of adapting the occupational pension schemes for government councils and large-scale representatives. The type of adaptation agreed between the government and public sector parties could have been chosen. But the majority of the population has chosen to go further and be more consistent than those in the public sector in terms of adaptation, and we are now basing that on. The adaptations to the public interest already adopted by the Stortinge apply from the current year. There is a living adjustment, a new scheme for the regulation of accrued-to-date pension rights and the adaptation of flexible withdrawals in the population’s population, to mention the most important thing. The Stortinget is now being invited to decide on the further design of earnings in the new occupational pension scheme and its entry into force. I would say, no matter what reason here, it is essential that the Storting should do this now. It is also essential that we do not advocate entry into force which is not clear within the Constitutional Law’s prohibition of giving laws retroactively. One of the main reasons behind the reform that has been undertaken in all these years is that the Grandfather’s pension scheme should be as similar as possible to that of other comparable groups. It'll be now – as far as it goes. Because it is a fact – I think it should also be said when dealing with a matter like this – that being a people elected to the National Assembly of the country is not any job comparable to any profession. That's why I say emphatically that we should have arrangements that, as far as it goes, are adapted to what other comparable groups have. It is true, as the President-in-Office said in his statement, that the presidency does not address the question of how these changes are now taking place in relation to the other benefits given to the elected representatives of the government and the magnificence. It has been quite clear from the appointment of the Johnsen Committee and throughout the process that it is not part of this matter. We fully agree with that. At the same time, both the proposition and the attitude show that there are some significant restrictions that are now being made in the overall terms and conditions of government members and large-scale representatives. It's a fact. There is good evidence in the proposition and the setting, and no employer can fail to assess the overall picture. But it's not part of this case, so for our part we're not going to deal with it right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e362	Let me first thank the presidency, the leadership of the presidency and the parliamentary leaders. They have done an amazing job, stood together and cleaned up the many unclear, untransparent and – as the president said – ‘unbelievable good’ arrangements for the deposit representatives over time. It's about time. An unclear regulation is always subject to abuse. We have now come up with a better, transparent regulation that will help the wholesalers understand better and use it properly. There are, however, three things we in the presidency have disagreed on. One is when the new pension scheme will come into force. There, my colleague and the head of parliament of the SV have made a thorough presentation. There's two other things that I want to spend some time on. One is the current diet regimen. It is absolutely right that the presidency now proposes that it be abolished. Now, in line with all the others in this country, they are to apply for a diet allowance when they are on a mission or on duty. What SV disagrees with is that the same diet money is added to the compensation. We believe that it would be unreasonable to add this money to the compensation. It's covered and it's a real increase in wages. I didn't mean to. This is what we think we should think through again before we vote on it. I want to invite the Stortinget to reflect on it before you vote on it tonight. The second is the driving allowance. It is now proposed by the majority of the Presidency to raise the rate of driving compensation between home and Stortinget, from SEK 1.50 to NOK 3.65 per km. We believe that the Stortinget as the country's top political body has a responsibility in terms of the environment. We magnification representatives are not different from all other people, so my claim will be that when we increase the remuneration, you will be encouraged to use that opportunity when you have it. We therefore believe that this increase in the remuneration rate could stimulate more people to drive to and from Stortinget. I didn't mean to. This should be considered by Stortinget — just as when we proposed that parking in the garage should be subject to a charge, in line with that of all other employees in that country. If you have the opportunity to park for free, you do it, you use it, you drive to and from Stortinget. I believe that the Stortinget has a political overall responsibility for environmental awareness in the country. I would like to address the proposal by the minority of the presidency and recommend that the Storting vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e377	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e380	I refer you to the rapporteur's good report on the matter and I agree with the conclusions he has presented on behalf of the majority of the presidency. I take the word to say two things. One is that we need to keep an eye on the fact that today this case is primarily about the biggest clean-up of pension conditions for depositors since it was first dealt with in the early 1950s, and that the Storing is doing what it is right to do today, namely to ensure that the pensions of depositors and government members are essentially in line – as it is called – with what is valid for the population as a whole. It's a proper grip, and I'm very glad that the Storting, almost unanimous, is going to go into this later today. The second point is what has been the discussion about this in recent times, namely the relationship with the provisions of the Basic Law. I want to say that politically I understand much of what the representative Solhell said here in his speech. In the Workers' Group, all these aspects have been discussed very thoroughly, but we have come to the conclusion that the majority position is in the presidency's position, namely the understanding of Section 97 of the Basic Law. There may be a lot to be said today about the government's handling, but also about the Storting handling when the matter was initially dealt with, because it was also wrong in the treatment that triggered the situation we now have – I would like to point it out, because it has not been said by anyone else. I would like to stress that it also triggered this situation. If that's saying, of course, we should try to avoid all of them, but now we're in the situation that we have to deal with this so that we don't do anything against the Constitution. And that's what's behind the downfall of the Workers' Group to introduce this for those who have earned rights in the 2012 scheme. I think that is right to be made clear, so that there is no misunderstanding about our political intention with the full implementation of the reform. But we have to deal with Section 97 in the way that several other speakers have also explained, and I join in the presentation to both the President of the Grand Duchy and the representative of the Højbräten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e389	I drew myself because of the representative Højbrätten's posts. That's one thing he said, which I think is wrong. I also thought that the government has spent a very long time dealing with this matter, but if they had spent less time, the basic problem would still have been there, because the basic problem arose at Stortinget’s treatment in 2009. For new representatives – such as me, who was new here at Stortinget from 2009 – made a change, adopted on 19 June 2009, in the Storingspensionsgesetz §12 second paragraph, which made the law decision. But for those who already had ignition, send a case to the government to see how this was to be done. Even if it had taken less time, one would have been in the situation that one had an interim period, and if one were to follow exactly what the Law Department says, one would have to introduce it at a later date. It might have been a little shorter, but the problem would have been there. So the Storting did – in a hurry, it's understandable – something that has led to a little problem, and then the government has spent a little time. But in my value it is that when it is made wrong, they are not there to make new mistakes in the next round, or to explain new mistakes, but one has to do it right again, do what is openbert right to do. When this is the case, I would like to emphasise again the representative Højbräten said at the end of his post: The size is not any kind of work place. Storing representatives are not assigned to anyone. We are the legislative and constitutional assembly in Norway. When we know quite openly and unambiguously – and I haven't heard anyone suggest anything else – what is the intention of a decision, we write it in the setting, and even one that's now in the presidency, goes up and says it quite explicitly from the spokesperson of Storting, we communicate it out – is familiar with the understanding of what we are saying, we have to assume that the Storting is a social leader who takes responsibility, implements and does not acquire ourselves with that pension scheme for a few more years, that we don't get into the situation that we get a couple of years of different pension plans. Therefore, I think the only right thing to do is to do what we should do, simply to adopt the new pension scheme introduced from the beginning of the ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e398	President! Let me first say that I'm happy that it seems to be a very broad upplay about the new pension system. Then we have a discussion about the relationship with the Constitution. There, in the meetings we have had in preparation, in the debate here and in the position that exists, I understood that the ambition has been: as early as possible, given that we do not break the law. That's what's the conclusion, and I don't think we're going to take that discussion any further. I asked for the word to comment on the post of the representative Chaudhry, because when he says that there will be an increase in the performance of the representatives by incorporating the lowest diet, it is wrong. The fact is that those who have the lowest diet today, i.e. those who live less than 40 km from Oslo, have the same economic performance as before. Those who travel longer, i.e. those who are weekly commuters, will – at least very many – get less than before because they now only get for the days that they are actually in Oslo. In the past, you have had to pay taxes on that benefit when you have not been able to prove that you are in Oslo, now you only get the benefit where you are actually in Oslo. Simply put, when it comes to dieting, some people get what they got before, and some get less than what they got before. Then it's a dry piece to claim that this is an addition. I don't think that serves the debate. Similarly, when we now use the same driving regulations as the government does for practical reasons and simplicity, this does not mean that it is an incentive to use the car any more. It's a misunderstanding. It has been and will still be said that travelling to and from home is to be done in the cheapest way of travel. It is not amended by this Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e410	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. [[Votation, see pages 1351, 1358 and 1360]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e426	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, members of the Government 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to six lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e437	Exactly one week ago, on December 1, the great Christmas tree was lit at Trafalgar Square. It is, as we know, a gift from Oslo to London to begin the advent time we all experience for Christmas. Three weeks before Oslo's rapporteur lit Grana, the place was filled with 10,000 demonstrators. They protested against the tripling of tuition fees and the privatisation of many public schools. Today there are no demonstrators outside the Storting. No other demonstrators either. We are graced by the sad economic reality of many others. It's not just England that's hit. It protests and strikes, and for natural reasons. High levels of unemployment, welfare protection and increased taxes and taxes are affecting many individuals. Those who are so lucky to have a job have to work more and earn less. Those who don't have a job have trouble getting the ends to meet. Norway is in a more favourable situation. But it's not just because of the oil and gas revenues. It is also due to a responsible economic policy that contains partly unpopular and low populist measures. Pension reform is a system approach that gives us an economic space over time that will become more important and important as the population ages. The rule of action forces us politicians to prioritise within a responsible financial framework. In addition, we have spent over time jointly over tax relief, education, kindergarten, healthcare, research and infrastructure, combined with an active industrial policy. This stable policy will continue to be included in this budget. It's worth mentioning that despite all the measures we take to get people to work and keep people working, the cost of the population's money in this budget alone increases by a total of 23 billion. kr from the aged budget last year. It's almost an entire research budget alone. The population is ageing, the pensioners' groups are growing and there is less room for economic action in budget areas other than we would otherwise have had. The part of the budget under consideration today is also characterised by tight fiscal policies and limited use of money. Despite this, we adopt a good education, research and church budget. Equal rights to education mean that Norway is one of the world’s highest education countries today. The conscious and active commitment to knowledge of the entire people has resulted in one of the world's most productive and resilient working lives. It has also made us a society with relatively small differences and low levels of conflict. Primary school is the foundation of knowledge policy. The Joint School shall help all children and young people to meet challenges, to experience mastery and to be as equipped as possible to succeed in working and social life. There is a lot to be proud of in Norwegian basic education, and there is no doubt that Norwegian school is on the right track. But we still have reason to be concerned that many students do not master basic skills and that the drop-out in secondary education is too high. This has major consequences for individuals and society. Completed secondary education provides the best platform to be equipped for further education and a changeable and challenging working life. This budget contains a wide range of good measures to increase the quality of initial training. At the centre is early work, several hours in the most important subjects, homework and empowerment for teachers and school leaders. It is good and right that these measures are knowledge-based and have broad support among teachers, school leaders, students, parents and school owners. School is too important to allow students to be the subject of political experiments. The school must have time and courage to carry out long-term development work and to concentrate on the most important tasks. Everyone says the teacher is most important. To that I would say that the student is the most important, and that the most important people in the school for the students are the teachers and the principals. That is why it is good that we have introduced a binding reform of continuing education and training which has now been revised. It is expected from Stortingen that all parties will follow up the agreement and that the municipalities will ensure that the sites agreed by the parties are filled in. Something else would be serious for the school. This year too, combating non-response is important and has a high priority. The new GIV is being continued. We're spending money on the introduction of electoral courses at the youth level. The aim is that this should be one of several measures to increase motivation at an age we know is struggling with low school motivation. We continue the successful investment in new school buildings. And we continue to distribute fruit, despite resistance from the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Such a commitment is research-based. Here is an example from such research: researchers at Örebro University compared the incidence of folic acid in the ninth grade. Folic acid is the synthetic form of folate and is derived from the consumption of fruit and vegetables. Young people with high levels of folic acid had 20 character points higher in average characteristics compared to lower folic acid levels. When our goal is for everyone to succeed even better in school, fruit and green for everyone is a good investment, both in public health and in education. To be honest, I have to admit that it is getting more and more funny for every time such a good action is attempted to be ridiculed and enthralled with in the political debate. We believe it is important to increase the learning capacity of children and young people. All the measures that contribute to it are good. High quality research is the basis for the further development of society. There has been a sharp increase in investment in research and development in Norway, with a real increase of about 27pst. during the period of government. Although it is still necessary to strengthen our research capacity, we can see that Norway is the Nordic country that spends the most money on publicly funded research per capita. We're in second place in the OECD area. So far and good. But I have to admit that the Norwegian research debate is a mixed experience. The word change can sometimes be in the opposite tabloid, in the negative meaning of the word. There is a picture that research in Norway is not being invested in, that we are far behind many other countries, and that too little money is being allocated. Research is concentrated in Norway; we are not far away from many other countries. But, of course, more money can always be allocated, even for this purpose. Let me give you an example: Norway is often said to be the only country in Europe that does not focus on research. Then people should follow up a little bit on what's going on around us. The European University Association has produced a report that draws a completely different picture. It was made a year ago. Many European countries are cutting budgets for universities, colleges and research, some of them a lot. There are six countries that don't, Norway is one of them. In many places students have to pay extra, with increased tuition fees. That situation has worsened since the report was written. Often there will be a debate about numbers, percentages, share of GDP, etc., as I have just done. There may be a one-dimensional debate, and in this context I would quote Nicholas Eberstadt, who has said the following – freely translated from English: Although he does not always recognize the coercion, modern man lives under the tyranny of the numbers. We have challenges in research policy that are all about so much more: research is too uneven, private research is too small, we still have too few pointed environments, and we are struggling to get the right division of labour between the institutions. There are significant management challenges in many institutions, and too many skilled researchers end up because there are too many temporary jobs. Investing in a career in research is too uncertain. Researchers also experience that required paperwork eats up their working hours. But at the same time, I believe that the ongoing and strong pressure to invest in research, which we are clearly told at hearings in our committee and in other contexts, is basically very good, because it indicates that many in this society believe that knowledge and science are important, both by themselves, and that we should be able to solve the problems we face in medicine, the environment, education, etc. It makes me optimistic to think that virtually everyone wants more concrete and more documented knowledge, not less, as we see in some other countries. However, I am calling for a little more urgency in the research debate. There are enough challenges to address in this field. Religion characterizes the social debate in a way that we couldn't predict a few years ago. The Church Agreement involves a reform of the Church of State. The values we put in terms of freedom of religion and freedom of expression have met challenges in the last decade that it becomes important to follow up. The reform of training is an important element of this development. Faith training in the Church, as well as the training of faith and life views in other religious and life views, shall stimulate identity building and understanding of one's own culture and tradition. Knowledge and security of one's own way of life are an important prerequisite for tolerance and respect for the faith and outlook of others. The time perspective and the pace-up plan for the reform were estimated at five to ten years. Although the appropriations for this are perceived to be uneven on the part of the Church, the clear intention of the government parties is to follow the plans we have adopted. No cuts have been made in the church budget, but in a tight budget, the appropriations have been continued. We're in the middle of Advent. Advent means wait time. Enlightened Christmas trees, whether in London or in other European squares, are symbols of this. For many young people, waiting time will not be about Christmas, but about getting your own job and income. Their future is uncertain. It is their generation that is the great losers in this part of the financial crisis. Fortunately, Norwegian children and young people are delighted about this, and we want to continue to pursue a policy that ensures the Norwegian economy. In addition, I refer to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e486	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e489	«Everyone shall accompany». The Chairman of the Committee spoke to everyone about fruit. It was a strong exaggeration, it's probably barely a third that gets fruit. I'm going to ask a question that is of a slightly different nature. The chairperson of the Committee shall also be Akershus representative. In Akershus lies Urbyggen, on Ås – a building that is central to the national construction process in Norway, an important cultural institution and a cultural memory building. It is also important for the future. Its rehabilitation is a clear-cut project that could have been funded in 2012. We are now moving slowly, but surely towards the anniversary of the Constitution in 2014 and the celebration of Norway as a cultural nation, a knowledge nation and an independent country in Europe. Is there any reason to believe that the Urbygning on Ås could be restored within the Constitutional Jubilee?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e498	I am very pleased that the representative from the South Trondelag addresses the issue of the Urbyggen on Ås, which is quite right in Akershus. It is important for us in Akershu Labour Party, but it is also important for the government, because as the representative Lien has explained, it is an important building. The committee itself has been in it and seen that it is quite bad, has experienced for itself what it is like to be in it built – without me going into more detail. Of course, there's a need to do something about it, but, as I said in my post, it's a tight budget, and this particular building did not reach. We're going to have hope that it can happen in a future budget. At least it's a priority building.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e503	The representative of Marianne Aasen was in his contribution to the strategy Competence for quality and the importance of continuing education for teachers. Since 2006, the current government has provided seven large-scale messages. All these large-scale messages come to the conclusion that it is important to increase the competence of Norwegian teachers. How, then, will the representative Marianne Aasen explain that the ambitions are being adjusted, from 2,500 teachers to 1,700 teachers a year, when there is obviously such a need, and when the downgrading will mean that in practice Norwegian teachers will be able to dream about perhaps once in their working lives to receive this further training?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e510	Even the ambitions of the red-green government are not worth much if it doesn't work. The change made in this reform is about a reality orientation in relation to how it worked. The model of continuing education we had did not work, because the places were not filled up. We granted every year money that was not used. Then something had to be done, so I commend the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen, who has taken hold of it and made a model that I – I suppose like the representative Aspaker – have a strong desire for the municipalities to follow up. What was the main problem with the previous reform was that the municipalities did not do their part of the job, and that was a great deal of despair for both teachers and everyone in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e515	I do not know if the representative of the Aasen, with his background in the Financial Committee, cheered as much as I suppose the Minister of Finance did when he finally got rid of the protection that the Research Fund had given, and which had made it impossible for him to take this money in the annual budgetary procedures. Instead of changing the structure and trying to make the fund more robust, the government chose to remove the entire Research Fund because it would have some unfortunate effects in the years to come. Then it has been said from several teams that they are guaranteed and that they must be safe, these posts on the state budget. Then my question to representative Aasen about her, with her experience from the Financial Committee, is that research in the run-down period will be safe and spared from the regular budgetary debate, so that we still have an equal share in research in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e522	Once upon a time, there is always a great deal of sovereignty in adopting a budget as they please, which means that they can turn their backs on all the funds they want. No fund is safe. They are no more secure than a budget line. It's up to it at all times sitting big. What this is about is the extent to which we want to prioritize it. All the parties that have a majority want to give priority to research. And we do that in this budget, because these appropriations don't go away, they go over to another method of financing. With my background in the Financial Committee, I would warn against turning the research debate into a debate on funding mechanisms. It's not about that. The fund that was set up under Jon Lilletun for some years ago worked well back then, but we had to – and it was in place – when it no longer worked, change that construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e529	The representative of Aasen argues that there is a focus on research in Norway, and also refers to countries in other parts of Europe that are currently in a difficult economic situation and that need to cut their research. At the same time, this budget represents a minimum real growth for research and development. It's at 3.3 pst. Relatively, research relative to GDP is less used than is done this year and, compared to 2009 and 2010, is significantly less used. Since this is a commitment, how can the representative of the Aasen feel that this is a commitment to research and education?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e537	The big effort in this budget is, as I said in my introduction, the increase in popular security. It could double the research budget if we had only taken the difference from one year back to today, at 23 billion. kr. That means that the space for action is very limited, and that is to say, all budget areas. That's the simple explanation. We are betting something, and we want to bet a lot, much more, but we have a responsible budget, with real implications, and therefore we do not have as much money as the Left has in its alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e542	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e545	"Give me a fixed point, and I'll move all over the world," said the philosopher and mathematician Archimedes, explaining the principle of weight. This year's budget doesn't move the ground, it hardly spins the boat. To avoid debate on this, I'm going to take some numbers. I notice that the tyranny of the numbers, as the committee chairman quoted Eberstadt, we're going to be careful, but that's why we can put some numbers here, so we don't have to get this discussion. In 2005, 14 billion were spent on the state budget. kr on higher education, research and development, which amounted to 3.4 pst. In 2012, it's 24.2 billion. kr, there is a slight increase from 2005, to 3,69 pst. The top year for this government was 2007, with 3,86 pst. – not of GDP, but of the State budget. These are the real numbers. There's been an increase, but it's barely visible. This also shows that over the same period, the government budget has increased by 351 billion. kr, while the rate of higher education, research and development of the State budget has increased by only 10 billion. kr. These are the numbers. Whether there's a basis for the tyranny of the numbers or not, I don't know, but this is at least the numbers we have to relate to. It's something that's behind these numbers. Yesterday I was so lucky to be present with several members of the committee and the presidency in the funeral room – where it was so cold that it was just a miracle that I haven't had a severe cold, but where the University of Oslo, Ole Petter Ottersen, gave the Stortinget a gift: the history of the university. He told us about a time when the foremost men of the kingdom were really committed to research and education, and about the nation-building process, which lasted far into the last century, a process that was about first building democracy and independence and then the welfare state. He talked about mathematics professor Christopher Hansteen, who built the Observatory, which was the foundation of the University of Oslo, which put – literally and in transferred meaning – both Oslo and Christiania on the map. From Hansteen, a line goes all the way into today's debate. Democracy and the welfare state are based on the creation of the basis of democracy and independence by the legal, state and humanities disciplines. Real and technology sciences have given Norway a place at the table in European scientific circles and have provided the basis for the welfare state we have today. To tame the forces of nature was the goal of the real sciences. The result was power development and industrial development based on the power we produced, which created the basis for Norwegian welfare. Back to Hansteen. In 1815, the year before Hansteen became professor at the Royal Frederiks University of Christiania, he employed Bernt Holmboe in the amanuensis position. Holmboe was a mathematical talent that helped Hansteen with mathematical calculations. Holmboe later became a professor himself, but he is best known for being the teacher who created the mathematical genius Niels Henrik Abel. Otto Becken, the cinematographer, writes that Holmboe was a very knowledgeable and skilled math teacher. He began, among other things: providing students with independent tasks, which were not common at that time. After a short time, Holmboe discovered that the young student had outstanding mathematical abilities. Then he got to borrow math books from the university, which he studied eagerly. Right here is one of the core elements of the difference between the Progress Party and the Red-Green Parties: the will to focus on the dissemination of knowledge and the development of knowledge and the willingness to invest in the talents. The democracy and welfare state is built on the back of knowledge, but if we take democracy, well-being and prosperity for granted, the tooth of time will tear it down. Today, fewer technologists are trained than in 2005. There are probably fewer technologists than ever in Norwegian history. Other real schools are struggling with applicants, and doctoral programmes in technology and real science at major Norwegian universities depend on foreign master's candidates to fill the places. Some programs have more than 90 pst. foreign applicants, even in trades which have been fully central to the construction of Norwegian welfare, such as: petroleum technology. We have too few qualified teachers throughout the country, especially in the districts and, paradoxically, in Oslo and Akershus, and we have an older wave and an interaction reform that creates an increasing shortage of nurses and other health professionals. I don't know if it's on the good side or not, but it's trained four times as many artists as the labour market needs. These challenges cannot be solved alone in universities and colleges. They must be solved throughout the education cycle — in primary and secondary schools — and, in the spirit of Holmboe, with professionally strong teachers with the ability to teach all children at the level they are. This requires competent teachers. What is probably one of the most important things we can do to strengthen Norway as a knowledge nation is to strengthen teachers’ pedagogical and professional skills. The Chairman of the Committee has spoken about Advent. Obviously, waiting for a five-year teacher training course takes more than 24 days, it takes time. But I would like to commend the State Council of Halvorsen for now tightening the requirements for higher education in the subjects in which they teach, also in primary school. Continuing training of teachers is a very much different issue primarily in the area of local economy. There I have to be allowed to point out that we think it is strange when a profession comes and says that they are willing to take 5 pst. the costs of an important reform, the fact that there are parties in this Chamber who believe that they should not be allowed to do so. We think that's very good and support the government's approach to it that way. But I'm also worried that it seems to be a weakened level of ambition. In higher education, the Progress Party is focusing on the technology and welfare sectors. It is a paradox when we know that 8 000 technologists are already missing today, and with an ageing technologist population, especially those employed in the municipalities, that it is only the Progress Party that proposes several technologically oriented study places in this year's budget. Strengthening results-based redistribution is another priority area for us. We know that it has been a success, but that success is about to weaken itself. Result-based redistribution has been a success, but success is weakening itself, because the entry is locked in size. The gift-enhancing system is probably the biggest paradox in the government's submission to the government budget. The largest individual is the Cancer Association, which is the common Norwegian people who have given money to the Cancer Association, who pass them on to Norwegian universities, so that they can carry out research on cancer. This is clearly the view of the government, at least according to Secretary of State Kyrre Lekve, that is a democratic problem. The fact that the Norwegian people are giving money to research is supposed to be a democratic problem, I have difficulty taking over. I hope the removal of the gift-enhancement system is a decent, or unholy, work accident, which we can get fixed, at least until next year. The research fund is probably going to come back to several times today. So we are replacing economic risk with political risk here. I know what I fear most – I have noted that I agree with the sector as well. So I think it's a little unfortunate for today's debate that the government's proposition says that NOKUT will be able to carry out quality control also with established education in the major educational institutions, when it has come to the conclusion that that is not the case. To the mass of buildings in the sector and the Urbygning on Ås: higher education has been in operation for 110 years. Is it only the Progress Party that believes that it would have been timely that that building was ready to be upgraded for the anniversary of the Constitution in 2014? The University of Southern Trøndelag is the only big-city high school in Norway that has not received a common campus after the mergers. I'm worried. So, about the Church, as a trombone team representative, I'm happy with the opening up of the Pilgrim bet, but I'm a little worried that it won't soon be a single priest to meet between Trondheim and Oslo. Some of you may have thought of me as a little too instrumentalistic. That's why I'm going to end by quoting Euclid from Alexandria, who after reading about math to a rich man was asked, what can I earn from this? And Euclid said unto his servant, "Give him three obols since he feels he must earn what he is learning." Knowledge has a value in itself. The last time we discussed this, I drew up the Ugelstad balls, which were simply the result of intellectual curiosity. Now I'm going to end by reminding you that what Kristian Birkeland was trying to do in his time was an electric cannon, which was going to be used militaryly. What he invented was nitrogen oxide, which has strengthened Norwegian agricultural production since then, and was an important part of the industrialisation of Norway. I am thus promoting the proposals of the Progress Party alone, and of which we are with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e595	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President can confirm to the extent that it was freezing in the den. Nevertheless, it seems that the representative got a lot of John Peter Collett's lecture! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e602	I just have to be allowed to stress that the undersigned does not have the personal economy to build observatory buildings or other constructions in the Norwegian university sector, but we hope to be able to solve it in other ways. Tord Lien is a man who has been involved in professional education, and my impression is also that he has been more concerned with it than the other bourgeois parties. That's why I find it strange that they write in the setting that they ‘To this end, more instruments are identified to stimulate the creation of more apprenticeships’. However, the Progress Party, as the only party, is not included in a note where we others ‘want a stronger focus on the situation of apprentices and the lack of apprenticeships’ and will pay particular attention to ‘the consumer power in the purchases of departments or underlying agencies, municipalities, county councils and other major purchasers in Norway... in order to ensure that there are enterprises that are recognised apprenticeships, with apprentices, who receive tenders and assignments’ in the public sector. Can the representative Lien explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e616	This is an attempt by the Workers' Party to expound the fact that, otherwise, both the departments and the public sector are far too little self-inflicted on apprentices. In large parts of the country, there will be municipalities where there are no training courses that make apprentices available to work in these types of enterprises. If this proposal were to become a reality, as the vast majority of the Workers' Party flags in this hall, it would not, when it comes to the play, exclude many of the small entrepreneurs around in District Norway who will not be able to get apprentices, and thus get themselves out of that position to participate in order to get this kind of contract. I'm a little surprised that the Central Party believes this is a reasonable way to do it – I'm not so surprised that the Workers' Party believes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e623	Tord Lien knows his story. Tord Lien and I may disagree a little more when we get to something, for example. related to the consumption of money. The progress party has always more money to spend than most of the other parties. That is why I am often more curious about the cutting and cutting proposals from the Progress Party than about the addition proposals. One of the cuts that I'm really wondering about now, it's cut that the Progress Party will have to the Islamic Council, the Christian Council of Norway and the Cooperation Council for Religious and Lifely Society. In a society, in a time when everyone is busy learning to live together, we're going to interact, we're going to bind society together, we're going to glue society together, despite having different beliefs and beliefs, so the Progress Party chooses to cut support for such organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e630	Right now I'm wondering who in their time said the way the hell reads the Bible, but I don't think so, so I guess I shouldn't quote it either. The representative Aksel Hagen from SV has obviously not read as well as he should have done. It is this way that we propose to transfer these funds from these umbrella organisations, which do not have individual members – the basic principle for funding religious communities in Norway is that the money should go to the organisations based on members – to those organisations where the members are actually involved. And if these organizations, the religious communities that have members, believe that this is important, we assume that they are able to finance this with the increase they will then receive with our proposal for a government budget. In principle, I believe that my position is somewhat more in line with the SV's overall approach to this than the SV's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e637	It's kind of hard to compare budget proposals for heads, but the Progress Party is making some conscious cuts. Apart from the usual tax cuts and cuts in aid, cuts in agriculture, cuts in population and cuts in climate, it would have been nice to hear why the Progress Party believes that funds coming from regional research funds obviously do not go to environments that provide what they call international, relevant research. Very well-known, for example: Regional Research Fund The Inland contributes to biotechnology, food research and, inter alia, to: light metal. I wondered if the representative could explain to me why this is not considered international, relevant research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e644	I am surprised and in part shocked that the Progress Party is accused of cutting the climate, because the party that is most sovereign on what can do with Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, namely technology, is the Progress Party. I recommend that the representative of Tingelstad Wøien take a look at our overall approach to energy policy, research policy and industrial policy – there is a focus on technology everywhere. So it's completely wrong. With regard to the RFFs, I recommend that the representative of Tingelstad Wøien read the evaluation presented by the Norwegian Research Council a few days ago, which says that one of the major challenges of Norwegian research policy is that it is far too fragmented. It's run by small disciplines, and it's run for regional reasons, while what we need more of, are national bets. Norwegian research is not a circuit championship. We're going to win against China. It does not help if the country beats the West unless Norway strikes China in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e651	In Stortinget, government parties have turned to the case of private church buildings – to a great deal of joy for local congregations. They've worked socks, they've had bazaars, they've had lotteries, they've had plenty to build their buildings, to make it big, beautiful assembly houses for their communities. Now they're getting back into place the state contribution that they so badly need. But when this was to be commented on by the representative’s colleague, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, he used a term such as ‘silver money’ about this money. I have a question for the representative who knows his Bible history. I'd like to know: does this mean that they don't understand that this isn't really just a nice little picture, but that it's the name of one of the biggest failures in Bible history? And does the representative agree with his colleague that this money for church buildings is locally comparable to Judas ’ betrayal? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e657	Normally I'm very concerned with education and knowledge, but right now I should probably have wanted me to have less knowledge of this topic than I have. I have also noticed that my colleague Solvik-Olsen tried to address the fact that the Workers' Party was trying to throw silver money. I think we agree with the party that it was not a Christian People's Party that was the goal of that statement. Then I just noticed that the Christian People's Party has interpreted it a little differently from the way I understood it was meant by my colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e662	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e665	This year, 182 years ago, one of Norway's great mathematicians, Niels Henrik Abel, died. His mathematical life's work could be even greater if Abel had not died at the age of 27. Nevertheless, it is a fact that today's complex, high-tech societies had hardly been possible without his mathematical research. Little did Abel know at the beginning of the 1800s what central role his mathematical work would play in the development of computers and mobile phones 150 years later. This is the nature of basic research, that we often don't see how research can be applied immediately. However, there must never be an argument against such research, because it is precisely this that triggers other researchers to push the research forward to new breakthroughs. About Abel's research, a French mathematician said it's given mathematicians worldwide more than enough work for 500 years to come. It's in this perspective that we have to understand how groundbreaking Abel's work on the 5th degree equations and the so-called addition theorem was. The history of Abel is an important reminder of the importance of focusing on research and long-termity in research. Research can provide answers to known issues today and equip us to tackle yet unknown challenges in a distant future. The right is very pleased that the four opposition parties have gathered on a joint research offensive. The proposed new research fund would provide an increased long-term perspective and provide a research promise for Norway. For the Right, the continuation and improvement of the gift enhancement scheme and the TaxFUNN are also important pieces to stimulate private contributions to research. Norway has research environments in the international research front, for example in cancer medicine, biotechnology and aquaculture. These are environments that need to be cultivated further. For the right, it is more important than ever that the knowledge-based nation of Norway, in times of economic unrest, bet on knowledge and ensure the competitiveness of industry as a basis for the well-being of new generations. The government's lack of priority of knowledge and research is a little wise. The red-green government will be remembered for cutting rest as a method, and as the government that terminated the Research Fund. Without prejudice to the consequences, the government removed the gift enhancement scheme, which has provided Norwegian research with significant private funds in a split with the state. Dealers and receivers describe the gift enhancement scheme as a success. In fact, without these contributions, there would have been significantly less cancer research and less gift professorships at universities. It loses patients, and it loses students when the scheme disappears. Until recently, the Right has believed that the government would turn around, and acknowledge that the decision to remove the gift reinforcement has been made on a failing basis. But the fact is that the arrangement is history from New Year's. The impact on Norway of the economic turmoil in Europe can best be described as an equation with many unknowns. This uncertainty makes it even more important to pursue a responsible economic policy to safeguard Norwegian jobs. Having ambitions for the future is not talking down the present. For the knowledge nation of Norway, people are the country’s most important resource. Then quality in school and education is essential to provide students and students with the knowledgeal ballast needed to master later education and work. The right shall be recognisable. That is why, in our 2012 alternative government budget, we have proposed increased basic appropriations for public and private universities, several scholarship holders and post-doc positions, and we are expanding the basic labour skills programme to allow more companies to offer their employees with low basic skills, training that allows them to stay longer and maintain their link with the world of work. The educational grant is proposed to be increased, we give new lessons in childhood, and we want to target the teaching aid for the youth. Last but not least: in 2012, the right proposes a radical escalation of the country’s resources for continuing training for teachers. The State shall subsequently take an even greater part of the bill. This is the way municipal resources will increase the competence of even more teachers. The opposition also agrees at this point that the government's approach to further training of teachers is too little ambitious. At the government's pace of 1,700 teachers this year, it goes without saying that the right to further education is almost an illusion. With the Right configuration more than double the pace of implementation, to 4,000 teachers a year. This is absolutely necessary if we are to be able to meet the increased skill needs related to basic reading and calculation training. Early efforts are needed to increase school attendance and motivation and to prevent non-response. And we need more teachers with greater professional immersion in youth, where much of the foundation is laid for success in high school. The focus of the Minister of Knowledge and the Government is completely wrong when it is proposed to legislate a standard of teachers for whom there is no evidence that research will have an effect. In his extensive study of schools and learning outcomes, Visible Learning, John Hattie sums up that of the hundreds of classroom studies and results that have been done, no one shows a clear correlation between teacher density and how good the students are. On the other hand, the researchers fully agree that what matters is the quality of the teacher. It is therefore clear to the Right that high admission requirements for teacher students, more demanding teacher training and systematic continuing education are the way forward for the Norwegian school to be able to raise itself up in line with the needs of society and the labour market. We have no time to lose. The SSB has predicted that Norway may lack as many as 18 000 teachers by 2020. If we're not going to steer into a serious teacher's crisis, it's urgent to build a higher status of the profession and attract more students. It's urgent to think new and find other ways of recruiting for teacher training, into school. The right has proposed a number of measures to make education and training and the profession more attractive: 5-year master's education, new career paths, more systematic continuing training and comprehensive seniority measures. The problems of secondary education with regard to early retirement are significant. In addition, new statistics show that one in five drops out of higher education also after the Quality Reform. It's discouraging. For society, this is serious. This means that we are going to experience an even greater shortage of many types of labour, at least a delay in the availability of labour. Good teachers and trainers at all levels are important in motivating students to complete the education cycle. Students who do not receive early school help are vulnerable groups in secondary education. The right will have more flexible training facilities, which can counteract non-response. Right-wing calls for a larger government offensive to recruit even more apprenticeships. The state must show way and set up with a far greater number of apprenticeships than today and actively contribute to the fulfilment of the needs of professionals. We know that multiple learning places are a very effective response to non-response. Language is the key to better cultural understanding and increased interaction across national borders. Norway’s export dependence should also be a reminder of the importance of facilitating better student and student exchanges. In 2011, Norway signed important agreements on education and research cooperation with both the United States and Russia. It supports the Right. The right has therefore proposed strengthening student funding, so that all students, regardless of their parents ’ wallet, can freely choose where to study, including in the United States. The Norwegian-Russian secondary school in Murmansk is an initiative from the municipality of Trom and important in a north-eastern perspective. The school is a success, but has lived an uncertain project life until now. From 2012, the right proposes that the school should have its own government budget and 1 million. kr in State aid. In the light of the presentation of the Northern Territory Communication, where the bet is to be taken on land, as it is called, I will challenge the Council of State on what she thinks about the future of this school. There can be no doubt that Niels Henrik Abel was a rare mathematical skill – a talent that fortunately was finally discovered and encouraged to cultivate his great interest in mathematics. It harvests the fruits of today's society. Norway has opportunities for other European countries to envy us. Now it's important that we do the right priorities. That's why you're betting right at school. We're concerned that we should also cultivate the talents and foster new scientists who can contribute as positively to value creation and social development as Niels Henrik Abel has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e734	I note that the representative Aspaker is continuing to denounce Norwegian research today from the pulpit. When the state budget was presented, the entire opposition, including the representative Aspaker from the pulpit today, came with firm criticism of the government, because one proposes to replace today's research fund with its own budget line in the government budget. As is well known, the government proposed that there was a need for two new schemes, two to increase, namely the long-termity of the research appropriations linked to varying and lower interest rates and the lack of price and wage compensation. In spite of the harsh criticism, one would expect that the Right would propose to keep the order of the day, but no then, there is an own and new proposal. Isn't that a solid admission that today's system is too bad? How, in the name of heaven, can the Right claim that the proposal secures long-term financing, when it does not take a height for price and wage adjustment and real growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e741	If it had been the opposition that had talked down the research budget, I could in a sense understand the line that came here. But the fact is that the really sharp criticism of the government's course of action when it comes to research in this budget came from the Norwegian Research Council, and it came from all the environments affected by the lack of long-termity that the government is now proposing. Then I'm going to give the representative right in one thing, and that's that the fund structure we had was not robust enough. That is why we are now proposing a new fund design within the framework of the State pension fund abroad, which is in a way part of the rule of action, and which will in a completely different way ensure that we get the long-term and predictability that research needs to develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e748	In the case of research funds, let's forget what's been said so far, and start over a little bit. A main argument from the opposition side is that there should be increased predictability. If we look at the fund structure proposed by the opposition, the predictability lies in the automatic release of 4 billion. kr every year. The only predictable thing about it is that we know that it will be smaller for each year ahead, given that there will be a price and salary change from year to year, which is supported. In other words, the predictable thing is that research returns will decline. It would have been the kind of predictability that the opposition is after. This means that politicians will then have to incorporate and adjust this in order to ensure this predictability. Just to ensure zero growth, politicians need to be on the road to research. So we have also removed the second argument, that we can almost take research out of and out of the political budgetary game.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e757	I don't understand where Aksel Hagen wants his line. It is quite clear that the new fund structure will ensure return on research. It is quite clear that the budget line from the Right also has many other structures in it that will strengthen research. So the way in which you try to ignore the dynamics of the fund model that is now proposed from a global opposition, I don't agree. I am convinced that research with another government will go far brighter times to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e762	The right also operates with its framework and cuts in taxes, in agriculture, in aid, etc. Then I have noticed that the Right also cuts to the County Municipality. The representative Aspaker has just said that the follow-up service is very important, and stated that the resources for the follow-up service are marginal. I have also noticed that it says that a person wants to establish his own course of practice and theory in higher education, but I can't find either the follow-up service or a separate race in the budget of the Right. Will there be much talk and little else?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e767	I can reassure the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien that the Right has a very good dialogue with its state politicians and is very clear and clear on what to prioritise out there. The feedback we get from our people in the counties is definitely that you have a big focus on non-response, that you are engaged in a decentralised school offer, and that you are concerned that the students who are struggling should be followed up, because the county councils also see that it is in their interest to ensure that these students complete their education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e773	I want to go back to the topic about this with research funds. In his reply to Tor Bremer, the representative Aspaker said that it has not come from the Right Black Painting, but from the community out there. Well, I remember well from the hearing on this topic, where the NHO agreed with the government. Usually, the right tends to agree with the NHO. So I wonder why not the Right can agree with both the government and the NHO in this case, which believes that this is a fragile financing mechanism and strictly not about research to which the Right wants it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e778	In this case, it is well that the NHO first agreed with the government, but then the NHO thought about it. When the four opposition parties presented their new model for research funds, the NHO has also endorsed it. They are afraid that research in Norway will suffer the way the government is now suggesting that research be treated. In particular, industry depends on the priority of research for innovation and the ability to build under heavy industries in Norway that depend entirely on research in order to carry on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e783	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e786	Overall thinking is important in most contexts, not least in terms of the state budget. It is also reasonable, then, to consider the financial debate as the most important budgetary debate in this House. Then we have an opportunity to discuss both the whole of the budget and the relationship between the different chapters of the budget. The debates are then likely to be elucidating and therefore interesting, for most parties largely adhere to the same state budget. This gives us an opportunity – as I see it in the financial debate this year as well – to discover similarities and differences between the overall economic policies of the various parties. This is important information that we all need to take with us to future debates both inside and outside the Storting. This year we got good differences, as said, between position and opposition, but not least differences within the opposition. I still look forward with excitement to the opposition – who had to do this at the end – taking care to work out a governance alternative government budget. I assume that the next harvest must be the last opportunity. Budgetary debates, which we have today, can easily become less interesting and less clarifying when we come down to chapter level, because they tend to break into the economic framework available to each political party. This is really the situation here today. Basically, we have five different financial frameworks. We have the red-green and each of the four opposition parties' different economic frameworks. The weakest thing about the budgets of the two largest opposition parties here today in terms of research and education is, in my view, the income side, the income side they have acquired in their respective alternative state budgets – that is why I have given my initial thoughts on the state budget – and that makes them able to invest in something more money than what we in the government party can do here today. I could also have thought of having more money at my disposal, for all things. To bet wisely and boldly on creation, education and research is right to do even more so than today in the years to come. That's the ambition of both SV's and the red-green government. For the SV and for me, when we're going to spend more money on education and research, two prerequisites have to be met: first, the increased investment has to take place within a decent economic government budget framework – and I say ‘beneficial’ to mark that I not only believe in the temperature effect theory within the climate debate, but I also believe it in macroeconomic issues, too, because the high level of domestic activity is not good for the cost level – and therefore for competitiveness. The concept of decent should also capture the fact that a country such as Norway should be able to further develop as a society within a sustainable economic framework. It will be ethical and ideological error for us socialists to assume an income page in the state budget beyond what the rest of the world can serve as a basis. Oil revenues must not make us spoiled and expected as a nation. What we traditionally do in politics when we have expectations of something is that we discuss how to grow in supply. But I really believe that, as never before, in the present world situation, we need to be more realistic about the gap between what we expect and what we ask for. Obviously, we need to establish a stronger policy of distribution and become even more aware of what we are going to promise, and who we are going to promise, but in terms of appropriations, we cannot lift everything and everyone; we must give priority. The opposition's budget proposals and contributions here today seem to me far too much not to try to give priority, but to give more money to everything. But this very sad message of what we are going to do in the future also gives education and research an opportunity, because from a sustainability point of view, it is clever and right in all possible ways to turn consumption away from consumption of goods to learning. Here lies the possibility of education and research. The second assumption that SV has to meet if we're going to spend more money on education and research is that we have to collect the money we're going to spend, in a decent way, and not by tightening up other areas of activity in the state budget, which we think are very unfortunate. This is precisely where, in my view, the Right Party and the Advance Party fail by cutting – sometimes heavily – in areas such as agriculture, regional development, government administration, without showing how to cut, aid, kindergarten, press support, transitional aid, etc. They raise more money into the opposition box by establishing a tighter asylum policy and the sale of state properties, and they assume that there will be less unemployment, which in turn will result in less expenditure, etc. That's why, point 1, the opposition gets more money at its disposal here today, and point 2, so that SV and the red-greens can't join in on the red-green frame that the opposition is giving itself sail, and is available in today's debate. But then go to the expense page, which is usually the most focused. What does the opposition part spend this money for? The first thing that strikes you is that the opposition essentially gives our red-green policy a warm connection, in a way a little warmer, which I've already had, than what we can do within the given budget framework. In fact, the opposition will develop the red-green education and research project in many areas through increased use of money, stronger earmarking of money and obliging escalation plans somewhat faster than what we want, but there are no divisive large-scale projects that shrank in relation to our ambitions, our goals and our conceptions of what are the right instruments in this area. What the opposition party does in many ways is, through the setting here today, to cheer up the red-green project, and they want us, as I said, to move forward a little bit faster and put action in a slightly stronger way. Because it is seaworthy, and we very much appreciate it, that we are now almost fighting to say that continuing education is important, that hospitation schemes are important, that apprenticeships are important, that a strengthened counselling service is important, etc. When a reader reads through the setting today, a quick blinded by all the extra crowns that appear in the notes from the opposition, but in sum, the deviations are actually quite small. Take, for example: research, which has also been widely criticised by the opposition here today. We have submitted a budget in which the publicly funded research comes up to 0.92 p.m. GDP. Christian People's Party manages 0.93 pst, Progress Party 0.94 pst, Right 0.95 pst. and left 0.96 pst. That's not the dramatic difference. I almost want to say that I think this is how an opposition should be able to do, so much should one be above the government in such budgetary matters. So this is fine! We have ups and downs. We have support in the opposition to move on. The other thing that strikes one is how different it is between the four opposition parties, especially between the two largest, the Right and the Advance Party, within this despite all relatively narrow framework, because we agree on most of it. This isn't meant to be any criticism, actually. But at least it's interesting to note that the disagreement is written down in detail to show them in the budget setting. Here, fine-cut party markers are written in note after note, on homework, fruit and vegetables, continuing education, hours, study support, learning material, free principle, elective subject, SFO, study association, etc. It's the inequality that characterizes what's written about the different points here. Elisabeth Aspaker says that the opposition is agreed. No, the opposition is understood – or unclear, I shouldn't take a stand on – disagree with each other about the few points where they agree with us in the red-green position. Then we also have here – and it's probably not to avoid – some annoying facts. It is a reality that the real growth of research appropriations in the period 2006–2011 – notice that I say real growth – is at 27 pst. Once we have completed all of our new studies, there are 20,000 new places of study during that period. It is a reality. I think it destroys us – a bit – an otherwise good level of debate between us when it is said in debates earlier here in the Chamber about this that the red-greens present the worst research budget of the time, and that we have a government council that shuts down research. Such statements have no basis whatsoever in the facts that we have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e816	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e819	A former State Council from the partner of the representative Aksel Hagen, Gudmund Hernes from the Workers' Party, once said: ‘In Norway, it is common to point out that performance requirements can lead to anguish of performance. It is easy to forget that they also often lead to performance.’ We in the Progress Party want to open up a level-shared professionally differentiated education in school to ensure that all students experience being met with demands and expectations, as Gudmund Hernes pointed out. However, such organisational transformation could generate increased resources for basic training. Therefore, my question is: does the representative share the opinion of the former Council of State, that it is important to make demands on all pupils, and should funding be given to this in terms of organising basic training?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e831	I do not believe that any government council, nor any policy-makers, disagree that there should be demands on students and students – for that matter – in education. What is at the heart of adapted education is to see the individual, and then to start a learning process in consultation with the individual, so that the learning pressure is properly adapted and well-functioning for the individual. Obviously, this is important. But what's our point is that the learning that's going to happen then should be done as much as possible in a community. For research, it is precisely by sitting together together and belonging to a learning community that one learns the best. These are the so-called good students, and these are the so-called weaker students. One additional point here is that one of the points of education is that we're going to learn to live together, and we're going to learn to learn together, because it's an important competence to have for the life we're going to live after school is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e838	It would have been tempting to take the research debate with the representative Aksel Hagen – I have done that many times, and it is always nice – but it will be another time, possibly later today. With SV in the management of the Department of Knowledge, a major offensive has been launched against high school drop-outs. That's good. This year, for the first time, specific measures have been put in place to address the weakest 10th-class populations — those who are really struggling. Municipalities are encouraged to take these students out of regular education and create their own groups for the weakest students. There have been arrangements for liberal exceptions to the law, because the law is very strict. SV defends this law and says it is harmful to divide the students into groups by level. Why is it right to do that when you're trying to save the weakest students, as you do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e847	This is a good question and an interesting issue, which we had a lot of discussion about before this measure was proposed – and subsequently implemented. In existing legislation, it is possible, for limited periods, to attract students who need special attention — and then the situation was assessed this way. Experience in retrospect shows that this has been successful. In a limited period, in order to achieve a distinct effect, it makes sense to give some students — for a few months — special attention. This is not an argument against the main principle, which should be that you belong to a learning community and that you reach different types of students through adapted teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e854	The representative Aksel Hagen has gained a high level of competence in the situation of primary schools in this country through many participations both in debates and at conferences. I think that there has been a useful meeting both for the representative from SV and for the colleges to see that the great disagreement that has been built over many years is no longer so strong, and that you respect that different schools will be allowed to operate as a complement to the public. But now they've been very clear that they're in a rather difficult economic situation. My question is open and simple: does the representative see the difficult economic situation of many of these schools, and what does he think can be done – if you do not want to get capital grants in place – to help them get an economy that makes it go around?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e861	The answer is yes. I am also pleased – and have noticed – that the same opinion has political direction in the department. We had a good debate about this in the hall for a while, where the only disagreement between us was this: where we thought from the position that we should continue the good talks between the department and these schools to get a real 85 pst., which also has the fact that it should include expenses for rent, the opposition's suggestion was that we had to cut through here and get a capital grant. I still think that the department and the schools involved will be able to put in place a system that works well in the future, and which is just giving these schools the financial subsidy that the Stortinget expected in its time, assuming that they would receive, i.e. an 85pst. grant, including rent costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e871	I have a pretty simple question. The representative Hagen used much of his intervention to explain how difficult it is to sit in government and had to give priority to many good purposes in a tight economic situation, including with reference to the rest of Europe. Then my question is: isn't it precisely in a tight economic situation, in a difficult economic situation, that it is necessary for a country to give a clear priority to research and higher education, and that it has to go beyond the other good purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e876	My answer is this: in a tight state budget, we have managed to achieve a weak growth in this area. I think it was well done that we got there. So I hope that we will continue to be able to make this grow even more. What was indirectly in my post is that in SV we want to turn the consumption from private consumption of goods and turn to more community and common consumption, and not least education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e881	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e884	We are in what is perhaps the toughest week in Europe for many, many years. The European Union is struggling with financial order, just as someone warned against the introduction of the euro without a single European bank. I do not start with the situation in Europe because I am against the Union. I do this to remind us that the situation in Europe is not insignificant for the Norwegian debate – both next year and in the coming years. Europe is our biggest trading partner, and Norwegian youth is European youth. Knowledge and ability to change and innovation may be more important in the next few years than ever. Figures from the SSB show that Norway has very low unemployment rates. The November measurement continued to show positive employment figures, including among the youngest. If we turn to Europe, we see a completely different development. Not only do they have high unemployment rates in general, but they have a very high proportion of young unemployed people. We do not know how Europe will develop in the future, but it is clear that we need to be aware that in future, Norwegian youth will seek employment in a completely different labour market than what we see today. It's important for school and education. This also means that together we as education policy makers must ensure that we develop a school in Norway that can meet in a good way in the future. It also means that we have to have high expectations — even to our higher educational institutions. The future needs those who are going to think of the new technological solutions. At the same time, we will need those who will take technology and new solutions further through design for assembly and production. I spent my entire contribution to the financial debate talking about this. So we can not only focus on academics, but we must also focus on the practice. The centre party means that this budget is on the right track. I'm especially happy that we're spending money on making high school better for everyone. I'm glad we can say that we finally get a school that takes all the students seriously. Everyone's good at something, and if they don't figure out what they're good at – fast enough – there'll always be someone who's good at being a clown or other things that we don't need in the classroom. And we must make sure that this becomes unnecessary! The call for practical work in secondary school has shown that the need for practical knowledge input is requested in Norwegian classrooms. A total of 235 municipalities applied to join the experiment, 133 schools in 82 municipalities were allowed to participate. Demand and good experience make it possible to open up from the harvest to all schools that want to participate. But if we're going to be good at merging theory and practice and taking the whole human being seriously, the electoral professions will also be a good tool. That every 8th grade in the youth class is given the opportunity to choose an electoral course from the fall, gives a good opportunity to cultivate the strengths of everyone, sides that you may not see so clearly in the ordinary hours. Many of the subjects proposed could also be very good master arenas in this way. So this will have to go to the size of the school, the teaching resources and the skills, and the maturity of the subjects. Today, many schools are good at the periodicisation and thematicisation of education. For example, Markaplassen works school in Trondheim according to the principle of ‘many intelligence’. It was exciting to learn about their way of working when I was visiting there earlier. That means they choose interest groups from 8th grade. In my own municipality of residence, Gran, Gran College works interdisciplinaryly by theme for periods. In order for us to get a better school, we, as education policy makers, must ensure that we have legislation that provides opportunities for the good teaching methods and the good teacher. I was at Lesja on Friday. Lesja School is in Norway's best school. Of course, I was curious to hear what it was that made it so good. In conversation with the principal, she placed emphasis on stability, both in society and in the staff, and teachers with knowledge and security. The kids met famous people both in kindergarten, in SFO and in school. She also focused on close follow-up and growth teams consisting of people from school, child protection, Nav etc., etc., who followed the kids from them were small. And she put emphasis on local politicians and the school management in the municipality, who put school in the high seat, and who care about and prioritize school. In educational debates, the largest municipalities are often highlighted as the best, but Lesja is a small community that has created it. We see the same thing in Sogn and Fjordane. It tells me that's not the size it depends on, but the quality and the attention. A rousing recent study from Eastern research shows that 17 pst. by young people who have participated in Youth Enterprises in secondary school have established activities six to eight years later. This is 5 pst. more than in the control group. It shows that investing in Youth Business and Entrepreneurship works. We need employees in the future, but we need not least employers. Entrepreneurship can be both establishing a business and managing it, but it can also be a way of working. A variant is also social entrepreneurship. It is therefore good that the government has strengthened the Young Entrepreneurship in this year's budget, whether it is not above the Ministry of Knowledge's budget, but above the budgets of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. There is cross-political agreement that a good school depends on the good teacher. The good teacher is the one who has good professional knowledge and good educational and didactic understanding. The good teacher also has good relations with his students, with his parents, with his colleagues and with the school management. The good teacher often also has some unknown x-factor. You are pleased that we have put in place a new agreement with the parties on continuing training, an agreement that will help to enable more teachers in several municipalities to continue their training. We're going to be able to give teachers opportunities to get better, but it's also important that all municipalities make sure that the principals have the opportunity to find their x-factor at the principal's school, which this government has started. As I said, I spent my entire five-minute contribution to the finance debate talking about the practical subjects and the professional subjects. I look forward to the evaluation of the knowledge promise for the spring, but I would like to reiterate that I believe there is still a need for a big message about the profession, preferably as part of secondary education. Secondary education covers all questions from weighting theory practice, practical correction, apprentices and apprenticeships, hybrid lines, additions, assessment, scholarships, mortgages, small and protective subjects, etc. There are many issues here that we should raise and discuss, so that we can ensure good training in the future. I am not calling for a new reform, but we need to address the need for adjustments, so that training is in line with the labour market needs for skills and labour. As I mentioned at the outset, probably more and more young people will study abroad, and more and more foreign students may want to study with us. The labour market will be larger than we see today, but due to the situation in Europe, competition will also be higher. One thing is what foreign studies provide of experiences and knowledge for individuals, but foreign studies, knowledge of countries and international work experience will be of great value to Norwegian employment and business. I am therefore very pleased that, through this budgetary procedure, the government parties are now opening up to Norwegian students who choose to travel outside what is traditional all-colored, by choosing studies in Brazil, Russia, India and China, to receive support through the State Loan Fund for the first year of a Bachelor's degree in these countries. The BRIC countries are important co-operation countries for Norway, and we therefore need to have the language and landscape skills necessary to interact well with them. The needs of society and the labour force for skills are not just about theoretical knowledge of a higher degree, sail if it's very important that we have the best people we need there. But eager to inspire more people into real science, we must not forget that direct vocational education is very important to many workers and companies. The provision of vocational schools will therefore be important in order to meet the increased need for skills in the labour market. Professional schools will be a good tool for both recruiting and maintaining labour. It will therefore be important to be able to facilitate, in the future, flexible and flexible transitions between levels of education and types of education. Vocational training offers valuable opportunities to increase your own competence, specialise and formalise the real skills that you have acquired through your professional life. It is therefore important that we continue to take up the offer that the vocational schools represent, so that both young people and adults who want to build on their skills are able to do so. It is important that counties are close to the needs of working life in their own region. This applies both in relation to the potential for creating and developing new jobs and in relation to the challenging situation that some industries and enterprises may experience. In this context, the regional research funds are also important. I therefore find it disappointing that the Progress Party wants to remove these. In view of the difficult situation we see in Europe, and so far also in the United States, I think we should be very happy that we are in a situation where we are still betting on education. Our budgetary constraints lie miles away from what our neighbouring countries have to contend with. I will come back to the church budget in my next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e937	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e940	The majority, in their introductory remark, show that they have great ambitions on behalf of all students, and it of course ends up with the Advance Party. At the same time, the majority of them boast that they have implemented a number of good actions that have broad support and support among teachers and other school managers and are knowledge-based. The training aid is used as an example. The majority also say that students are too important to be subject to ‘political experiments’. My question, then, is whether the representative believes that homework, which is largely done by unskilled assistants, is given on a good knowledge-based basis, or is it a political experiment, which, moreover, many teachers are very sceptical about?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e945	The currently provided training aid is provided for 1 to 4. class, and it does not really concern me that it is provided by unskilled or by assistants, who also assists in school. I hope that in the long term we can help expand the teaching aid so that it can also include older students, but I do not see that this is a political experiment. I think it's a very good contribution to the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e950	In our committee, there is a great deal of consensus and consensus about investing in school. That's why we've been very pleased with the high school message that's come, and that we're going to deal with now quite soon. There is no increased room for action in the budget for training. Is it not a paradox for Mr Tingelstad Wøien, who is also the case rapporteur for the report on high school education, that we are adopting today a budget which does not facilitate the proposed initiatives in the communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e955	The increased effort in the secondary education message is facilitated by this budget. There's been an increase, there's been a grant to develop the new electives, because that's what's kind of the new initiative. Now let's not forget that we're pulling down frame 2 pst. in general, and extra resources have also been put in place to develop the new options. So I hope that, when we get back to high school, we will get a broad consensus in this committee that it was a very good step.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e960	There have been slightly different reasons from the majority for discontinuing the gift-enhancing scheme. There has been an argument that the funds have not been used up annually, another that it is uncertain whether the scheme has triggered gifts from private individuals or that the government has simply not seen its way to maintaining the scheme. Then I wonder, isn't the Center Party saying that the gift-enhancing system is a good way to stimulate private individuals to provide funds for research?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e967	I believe that what the representative here says about assessments of the gift enhancement scheme is something that means that we should just look at the scheme in the research communication that is to be presented. I think it's a good example that shows that we just need to review this, so that we don't get into a cross-section of mission research, etc., but that we get to do this in a very sensible way. So I would also say that we had a lot of money, as much money as, for example. other parties have, it may be that the gift-enhancing scheme had also been continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e975	It's not good to know what the government and the majority really think about the gift-enhancing system, because I think that's something new for every time there's some new people say. We've got a lot of pepper from, among other things. the representative in the case of regional research funds. In the case of the gift-enhancing scheme, it is not such that, for example: South-Trundellag and Hordaland, i.e. the large population-tongue counties, are overrepresented, rather on the contrary – Hordaland may be overrepresented. It's the district counties that are overrepresented as recipients of gift-enhancing funds, and then it's the universities of the big cities that carry out the research. So you create strong links between the districts and the major universities. Does the representative not see that this is obviously an error? If not – what other instruments are more targeted towards this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e984	I see that the gift-enhancing system can be a good arrangement. That's exactly why I also say that we will consider it more closely when we get back to the research report. So it's also a matter of what we want to give priority to. I record that the gift-enhancing system was one of the areas that did not receive the priority that someone might want it to have. But when that is said, I am absolutely sure that we will come back to good solutions for the research, also in the future, through the research report.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e991	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e994	We in the Christian People's Party believe it is essential to strengthen children's quality of life and growing-up conditions by investing in family, kindergarten, school and child protection. The family must be strengthened as the child's most important and fundamental community. The school, together with the home, will form and educate the students and equip them to create the good community. One of the best investments we can make is investing in children's knowledge and growth. Norway shall be a leading knowledge nation and a good society. We have as our nation the prerequisites, but then we have to invest in both school, higher education and research. Just like the exact value of pi has an infinite number of decimals, I feel like I've picked up the government's error rate in hours an infinite number of times. In recent years, this government has consistently prioritised errors by spending billions on several lessons for the very least and free hours in the SFO. We want a new school policy course, where instead of several hours we are betting on more and even better teachers, a better high school and the fight against high school drop-outs. A good school is completely dependent on good and many enough teachers. The teacher is the school's most important resource, so we want to spend the big money on the teachers. The relationship between teacher and student is much more crucial for a good school than it seems that today's government is adding up. So in our alternative budget, we proposed cutting the number of hours and spending the money on, among other things. the teachers instead. We proposed to increase the teacher's density, and we would also have a more ambitious investment in continuing education for teachers than the government provided. Another approach that is important for teachers is to make the first year of work easier. We proposed to launch a new mandatory year of introduction for newly-trained teachers, which will be the start of a mandatory mentoring scheme for those starting school. The lack of mastery and motivation makes an extra big impression at the secondary school stage. We want a stronger quality development in high school through the New GIV project. This will help to improve the practical orientation of education and to increase the number of professional groups in secondary school. Today, I believe that too little money from the New GIV funds is being used down the secondary school stage. The government is now introducing electoral subjects at the youth level in this budget, despite the fact that the Stortinget has not dealt with the proposal. Now I want to hurry up and say that we are positive for the electoral profession in high school. I guess we were the first to say that we wanted to reintroduce this. However, like several of the hearing bodies, we are critical of the fact that the electoral professions are not adequately funded by fresh means. With the introduction of the electoral profession and a more practical schooling day, we believe that the profession of work could be a positive alternative to the second foreign language of those who want it. However, there is a need to look at the labour market in particular in the context of vocational training choices, but also in the context of choice and entrepreneurship. I believe that the system of free fruit in schools with youth does not lead to increased use of fruit and green on the day that the students have finished their high school. What we need to get people to bet on fruit and vegetables is an attitude change that takes responsibility for getting a healthy and good diet, and not just getting it served. Then you should halve the VAT on fruit and green. Rather, we want to reintroduce a subscription scheme for those students who are currently covered by the free fruit and vegetables scheme, and to extend it gradually to all, to replace what you have today. Free schools are different and have different student groups. Students face the same challenges as public school students. The lack of support for rent and capital expenditure has led to an economic pressure situation for many incubators, and many will not be able to put two lines in their calculations to get the budget up. The reintroduction of the capital grant will be a decisive step in ensuring equal treatment of public schools and in health schools. This has been a priority requirement on the part of the higher education organisations. In recent years, a number of new study places have been established. The fact that more people take higher education is positive as long as the quality of the education is good. However, I believe that there is a need for stronger ambitions for quality in education, in parallel with the stepping up of several places of study. It is essential to strengthen the educational part of the sector through increased basic funding. We need to strengthen professional environments, increase guidance through the study, provide educational skills enhancement to scientific staff, and ensure relevant practices. The Christian People's Party proposed in its alternative budget to increase the basic appropriations for universities and colleges by 200 million. kr. I'm afraid the decline – over time – in the grant to student children's gardens from the Ministry of Knowledge will make it harder for students with children to study. I'm concerned about the consequences this can have for different groups of students, and about the principle of equal opportunities for education. The Christian People's Party is also concerned about students and mental health, including the opportunities for communication to offer a low-threshold offer in a good enough way to all. The funding system for the various vocational schools is very varied and has major shortcomings. There will eventually be a need for a review of the funding of different types of vocational schools, for there are equations with more than one unknown. The education of vocational schools is important to society's education needs, and we therefore ask the government to review the funding system for the vocational schools and come back to the Stortinget with this as a matter of its own. The Government also proposes to phase out the gift-enhancing scheme from the financial year 2012. Like the rest of the opposition, we do not understand the claim that the scheme has not helped to increase the gifts of private donors to research. It has, and it has been an important incentive for private contributions to research, perhaps especially for the new universities that this government has refused to provide adequate research funding. They have been introduced through this scheme, but now this possibility is also being lost. I've been inside the research fund, and I'm not going to get into it any more in my post now. The Christian People's Party, and I, have repeatedly been critical of – and concerned about – the escalation plan for the grant of religious training in the Norwegian Church since 2006. In this budget, the government proposes to push the Tros training reform escalation plan into uncertainty. Thus, very many communities have to live in uncertainty — in an indefinite time — about when they will receive faith education. The size has determined that the Trostraining reform would be a 5-year project, running from 1 January 2004, and the reform would then escalate over the next five years to 250 million. kr in 2003-krona. Simple headcount suggests that it should then be financed and implemented within 10 years – by 2013. The government is now breaking with this decision. One might wonder if one believes in the Bible account in this regard, namely, that two fishes and five loaves will satisfy five thousand, for now there are extremely many congregations lined up to be present and to receive this offer. They've got the plans ready, they thought it would be funded by next year. It doesn't look like that, and even though the Prime Minister has risen on the ranking to be more equal and more respectable, he doesn't come up against the Master, who managed to get the calculation two fishes and five breads to go up, and saturated five thousand. So we're looking forward to getting a completely different investment in faith training than what we've seen from this government. It is the most important reform in the church in recent times. Many communities have been waiting for many years without getting the funds in place. The draft budget which is on the table today means that there is no room for an increase in new congregations receiving funds. It barely covers the growth in wages and prices. So we've suggested increasing the appropriation by 40 million. fresh crowns. Then, over the next year, you'll get the full funding in place, and we in the Christian People's Party will be on target, while the government is still standing a little bit behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1036	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1039	It's interesting to note that the Christian People's Party and the other bourgeois parties are bursting very strongly in terms of a very important relationship at school, namely how long children and young people are going to be at school, and how many hours they are going to spend at school. It will, of course, affect what subjects they learn and what knowledge they can then acquire. I wonder how the Christian People's Party believes that one of the parties with which they consider cooperation, namely the Right, will increase the number of hours – more than the government puts up to – while they themselves will cut quite sharply. What kind of school are the bourgeois parties apart?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1046	It must almost allow the bourgeois parties to answer for themselves. But I think it is a big problem in Norwegian school policy that the left side – also the Aasen party – wants what is now called a whole school day, you want to go to a whole day school with several school hours in place. The same thing happens on the right side of the policy, because both the Progress Party and the Right have set this as a goal and believe that this is what solves the knowledge challenge in Norwegian school. I think that if the voters really had to choose the good school alternative here, you should have chosen the center parties, which say that there aren't more hours that will increase learning outcomes and increase school effort, there will be more and even better teachers. Finland has fewer hours. They get more out of the students, cut higher than what we do, so here are the good solutions in the center. Right in this area, neither the right side nor the left side are attractive to the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1053	This is an attempt to make me a little attractive! Let's start with a family of mother and father and three children, one in the first grade, one in the third grade and one in the fourth grade. As far as this family is concerned, the Christian People's Party wants the children to have fewer school hours, and they will have a weakened SFO – at least an SFO that will be more expensive. Let's not say whole school day, but what kind of whole day does the Christian People's Party see that this family is going to have? How is this family, with three children in the 1st-4th? class, which is in school less hours than today, and perhaps not so much in SFO today, tackle the time challenge and make everyday life work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1062	I'm going to assume, to get the math to go up, that the representative also assumes that both parents are working full day, since we're trying out math metaphors. Being able to make everyday life go up is a puzzle for all the families of young children. I would like to refer to, for example: how to do this in Bergen. Instead of the fact that it is the state that is going to go in and offer free SFO hours – which for some people cannot be used, because no funds have been added to it – it has now been tried in Bergen to get other people to join in and run the SFO. I have visited some of the measures such as: is in charge of sport. It's amazing to see how they get it at a cheap price, in a cheap way. So here we disagree that the free hour at the SFO will come from the state, be rigid and imposed without everyone being able to use the offer. I believe that with the politics of the Christian People's Party they will have a whole and a good day, but not a whole school day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1069	The representative, Eriksen, said in his post that there was nothing to say that fruit and green in school would keep the children eating it after they had left. I kind of thought the point of the whole fruit-and-green scheme at school was that you were going to eat fruit while you were at school. That was the main point, and that's what Marianne Aasen also called for. So I wonder: why would you remove a scheme that is a positive contribution to maybe also the only food that children get that day, and then leave it up to the parents' attitude and motivation to feed them with fruit in a long day?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1074	I think the representative misunderstood me if she thought I said it was after school, and that you should keep eating fruit and green. I said it was after you left school, that is. after leaving high school. What's the point of starting to use fruit and vegetables is that children get good habits, that they take responsibility for their diet. If the government was really concerned about that, you should start this from 1st grade, not from high school. The Christian People's Party has said that we want to increase the consumption of fruit and green for the whole population, not just for the high school class. That's why we're going to go in to halve the VAT on fruit and vegetables, so that it's also possible for the families that are struggling with the economy, to be able to offer fruit and vegetables even after high school. That is what we believe to be a better priority than what the government puts on, and the discrimination that the government imposes in relation to childhood in terms of fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1082	It's tempting to talk more about fruit and green, but I leave it. Instead, I throw back the ball that I got from the representative Dagrun Eriksen in the line change after my post. It's about the Research Fund. The type of fund can be designed in different ways. You may have the goal of maximising your returns, there may be specific objects – either shares or housing or property or whatever it may be. It could also be linked to the type of business, that is, the green technology, as it is done here. It essentially weakens the return. What's interesting about the proposal for the four conservative parties is that they insist that it be a 4 pst. returns. I can't understand how to guarantee exactly that, and at least not more than going into budget chapters. What I'm asking is, what happens if there's not enough money from such a return, which in turn has such a construction that indicates that there's less return than 4 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1096	There's one thing about this case that I think people out there don't understand when we push ourselves into these detailed discussions. It is: When the government discovered that it was the construction of the fund that was not robust enough, why didn't they try to create another construction of that fund, to ensure the research in a better way? Why, then, did they choose to remove the entire Research Fund? Then we have in the opposition -- that's what we are, opposition parties -- gathered us to try to create a more robust system, and that also takes over what you had in the Research Fund because of the changes in the key, and that would turn out very bad next year, to ensure it in a different way. If the construction we've done is robust enough, durable enough, you can ask yourself if, but the point is to arrive at a robust system that makes us secure it as a fund, and that the Minister of Finance doesn't get this money when he wants... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1103	The President will remember the time of speech. In addition, the President has been made aware that the representative is unlikely to have made any proposals. She'll be allowed to do that outside of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1106	Then I take up the suggestions in the setting that the Christian People's Party has with others or stands alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1111	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, then addressed the proposals she referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1116	For the Left, the knowledge sector is one of our main priorities in budgetary terms — yes, the main priority. This is because knowledge and competence are self-valued and at the same time crucial for the future creation of value and well-being in Norway. If we are to succeed on the road to the knowledge society, it requires an overall commitment to the entire education cycle, from primary school to the top research of our higher institutions. It takes the left of the consequence of in its alternative state budget. Let me make it quite clear: the future begins in the classroom. Last year the fresh results of the PISA survey were discussed from this pulpit. The new thing was that we experienced relative progress in the PISA measurement, which meant that we recovered to the level we were at in 2000. I'm not going to dwell so much on the fact that the resistance to the PISA measurement from the left-hand side was significant as long as things went bad, while now, when we're on the right track, all the 'eie' progress will. My point is that measurements like PISA are important and show us that if we are betting on something, as we have done with the Knowledge Lift, which was introduced under the Bondevik II government, and if our teachers are motivated to do a job to get it done, our teachers are able to make progress, and they deserve it. But the job of lifting the school quality is not even done for everyone. Therefore, the Left has made some clear priorities in the school area in its alternative budget for next year. The most important thing we do is to increase the appropriations for teacher competence. We want more good teachers into school. We also want more people who have a professional depression in the subjects in which they teach. Then we have to put a lot more effort into continuing training and increasing teachers' skills than we do today. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we propose to put more money on the table, so that the state can take an extended responsibility for teachers' further education as of 1 January 2012. We put more money on the table, so that the cost key between state, municipality and teacher becomes 60–20–20 and not 50–25–25, as it is now added. In addition to this, we propose to allocate 350 million. a further boost for teachers’ competence — a teacher’s lift. It's amazing that we have a system of further education for teachers who have such low ambitions as we now have. In the past, the government had a goal of further training of 2,500 teachers. It was low and implies that it will take decades for all teachers to gain the necessary skills. The new agreement on continuing training reduces ambitions to 1,700 teachers per year. It's going in the opposite direction of what's necessary. In addition to the strong commitment to the empowerment of teachers, I would like to highlight another initiative in the Left's alternative state budget, namely teacher recruitment. In the view of the Left, the lack of teachers is one of the main challenges facing Norwegian school in the years ahead. We will lack about 1,000 teachers per year in relation to the needs of the next few years — and even more if you continue to expand the number of hours in primary school. The left supports the GNIST campaign and believes that campaigns are important to increase the search for teacher training. However, a number of other measures are also needed to ensure adequate teachers in Norwegian school. In the past, the Left has made proposals to draw up binding national recruitment plans to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers in primary and secondary schools. Our alternative state budget proposes to allocate 75 million. kr for the preparation and start-up of such national recruitment plans. The main focus shall be on establishing grant schemes to attract potential teachers from other professions as well as various senior measures to maintain teachers who are already in school as far as possible in the profession. In addition to the forthcoming shortage of teachers, non-response is the biggest challenge facing Norwegian school. The left has more concrete measures in its draft government budget for the coming years that will contribute to a stronger effort in the fight against non-response. We will strengthen cooperation and coordination between child protection, health services and schools, launch a pilot scheme with project support to further help students with reading and writing difficulties, strengthen the quality and competence of the counselling service, provide funding for the ‘School in construction’ action, and, in particular, ensure that apprentices are actually able to take up their apprenticeships in the company, which will undoubtedly increase the motivation of many students in the professional field. Therefore, we propose to remove the employer’s fee for apprentices from 1 January 2012 and increase the apprentice’s allowance. However, perhaps the most important proposal in the Left's alternative state budget for combating non-response is our commitment to the school health service. The left believes that the goal must be 1000 new health sisters, curators and psychologists in school over the next four years. This will be essential both to prevent school dropouts and to ensure good student health. In line with previous years, we propose to allocate 125 million. kr for this in 2012. Another area which is at least as important as initial training is research and higher education. The red-green government has, in our opinion, been responsible for a very defensive and little forward-looking policy in the field of knowledge, and the consequence of this can be, among other things. becoming less value-creating, fewer new jobs and a lower capacity to finance future well-being. That is precisely why we are so curious about the government's draft budget in this area. What signals does it really give to shut down the Research Fund with a pen stroke, a system that has been widely agreed to maintain until recently? What signals are there to put down a scheme that has made the country spend more than 300 million dollars? kr in gift enhancement since 2006? What signals does it give not to allocate funds to more places of study when we know from various SSB projections that the number of students will increase dramatically in the coming years? It is worth noting that if you consider an increase in the study bias of 5 pst. divided over eight years, the Ministry of Knowledge itself estimates that the increase from 2011 to 2012 will be about 4700 students. In other words, it is absolutely necessary to increase the number of places of study in 2012. That the government doesn't do this is a mystery for us. In contrast to the government's draft budget, the Left will both continue and improve the gift-enhancing mechanism by reducing the amount limit for when the scheme is to be implemented. We, together with the other opposition parties, have made proposals to earmark a research fund of at least 100 billion. kr within the State pension fund abroad, the use of which may follow the rules of action each year. We propose 2,000 more places of study, and we propose a further strengthening of basic funding to our higher education institutions with an increase of 300 million. kr. Universities and colleges are still struggling with the effects of the cutting of rest introduced by this government, and it is absolutely necessary to provide the institutions with a satisfactory space for action in order to maintain the quality of the time to come. Our alternative state budget will contribute to this. We are also stunned that there are no funds available for recruitment positions in the university and higher education sectors. It also did not happen in the state budget for the current year or the year before that, so we should probably not be very surprised. But at the same time, we would have thought that the government would look at the need to ensure a good follow-up in the university and higher education sectors. We have therefore invested funds corresponding to 500 new scholarship holders and 100 new post-doc positions from the next autumn. In the field of research, we propose a number of additions, including: more money for business doctoral thesis, more money for climate research in line with the climate agreement, more money for free research and more money for scientific equipment. We are proposing a strong strengthening of nutrition research, and we are proposing a number of improvements to the FUNN scheme. We are totally dependent on facilitating increased research efforts on the part of industry, and then as politicians we have to do what we can to stimulate precisely this. In addition to these efforts, we believe it is important to focus on students having the opportunity to be full-time students. We have therefore put forward a proposal that the government should come back to the Grand Duchy with a matter of eleven months of study support, which all the parties in this Chamber actually agree on, if the respective programmes are to be based. In addition, we propose a full indexation of study support from 2005 to the present. So I would like to say that I think it is positive that the majority today is showing a somewhat different approach to first year studies in the so-called BRIC countries than what we have seen from that edge earlier. Unfortunately, the majority does not go far enough: they do nothing to ensure Norwegian students have the opportunity to take the freshman year in the United States. In the alternative budget of the Left, we come up with a proposal to reintroduce support for first year education in non-Western countries, as well as in the United States. Finally, I would like to stress that it is entirely possible to invest in research and higher education if you just want to. That shows the Left in our alternative budget. Within a responsible financial framework, the Left prioritises an overall commitment to research and education of 2.3 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. In our opinion, it shows that it is possible to be offensively committed to building the knowledge society, if you just want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1160	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1163	I would like to take up some of the things that the representative Elvesuen had in his post. He claimed that among the red-greens, there has been resistance to the use of the PISA studies. Then I would like to remind you that it was Gudmund Hernes who reported us on the first PISA studies, and as one of the bourgeois friends of the Left was involved in earlier in this debate, Gudmund Hernes was quite early concerned about – and critical of – a low level of learning pressure in the school. I hope that Elvesuen got that recognition of the Workers' Party's knowledge policy. The Elvesu made the promise of knowledge as if it were exclusively the work of the Bondevik II government. It is true that the promise of knowledge was presented by Bondevik II, but it was carried out by the red-green ones. It is based on the Quality Selection that Trond Giske set down, which was led by Astrid Sögnen, who was former Secretary of State of Gudmund Hernes. My question to the representative is: Is the representative willing to moderate his selective story in the light of these facts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1172	As regards the Knowledge Promise, it was well pointed out that this was initiated under Bondevik II, and that is probably a completely correct description of the facts. As far as the PISA study is concerned, this was not about who had initiated us into the PISA study – this was the description of the results of the PISA study, and when we now get positive results, we notice that then the attitudes to the PISA study itself are also reversed; then one wants to appear as if this, of course, is a result of one's own policy. We believe that these results have a longer history – also a longer story than back to the Bondevik II government with the Knowledge Promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1182	I thank you for the answer from the representative Elvestuen, and that he sees it has a longer story, and that hopefully it has a longer story than for Bondevik II. The party leader of the Elvestuen has complained several times about the government's research effort, and Elvestuen was also involved in this. One of the things that the representative of the Left has complained a lot about is that the Research Fund has been reformed. So then my question is: does Elvesuen see that it is unfortunate on the one hand to listen to complaints about these changes, while not acknowledging that the opposition agrees with the premise that you have to change the Research Fund because it is not robust enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1190	Now probably our criticism is much wider. It concerns both the gift-enhancing scheme, basic funding for higher education institutions, research in general and the SkattenFUNN scheme, and the removal of the Research Fund with a pennestrek. That is why, together with the rest of the opposition, we have also proposed a different model for the Research Fund, precisely to make it more robust, as has also been mentioned in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1195	The President would remind the representative of Elvesuen that all speeches should continue to be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1198	A final attempt on the Research Fund — first of all to try to find out what the opposition proposal is all about. We agree that we're talking about $100 billion. kr, we agree that there will be an annual return of 4 billion. kr. So my question is, are these going to be 4 billion? Are prices and wages adjusted? If yes, that's fine, if no, that means that one has to fill with 100-200 million. kr every two years to maintain the level of return. Then it is neither robust nor predictable, in the sense that it must not be addressed in every state budget and subjected to a political debate and priority in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1203	The main problem with the Research Fund is that here you just give up, you cut it out. We're making a new model towards the state pension fund abroad, where you set aside $100 billion. And then you get a return on it. Of course, we're aware that we have an uncertain world, there's uncertainty about what income you get from it, and it makes it hard to be clear just how much you get in. But we think it's a good arrangement to have this Research Fund. Then, of course, you have to keep up with developments and see what adjustments you have to make along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1208	I notice that the representative admits that it was right to change that fund because it did not provide the possibilities that we had thought. The representative said in his statement that one should follow the rules of action each year regarding the fund that you have set up. It is true that the state pension fund abroad also goes up and down, and they also struggle with the return. So if the fund was really the right way to do it then, I wonder why you didn't just increase it to 100 billion. kr. I also wonder what guarantee the left-wing representative believes that the state pension fund should give a positive return every year – because the rule of action is not constant either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1217	I guess I can't give some guarantee, just as little as anyone else. But this is about that it's within the rule of action, it's about that we don't get any more money into the Norwegian economy here. It will be the total input into the Norwegian economy within the framework of the action rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1222	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1225	I am tempted by the ability to get involved in the debate on the Research Fund. I'm not going to do that. I just want to make the following observation: A united, unanimous growth is shutting down the Research Fund. The government's arguments about the weaknesses of the Research Fund are absolutely correct, and accepted by all. Point two: there are some incredible rarities around what you're trying to establish as a new kind of fund, but I can come back to that in a later article. I'm absolutely sure that Tora Aasland is going to go into it more closely in his article. I would like to focus on primary, secondary, etc. I can – with great research-based credibility – break out in any budget conference: Send the money to us in the Ministry of Knowledge. We're going to solve most of what we have of challenges. It is in the field of knowledge and education that we most effectively combat social inequality. This is where we invest most effectively for what business needs in the future, whether there are more skilled workers or there is research. That's where we most effectively make sure we're a cultural nation. That's where we most effectively ensure that we have social competence in how to deal with the future, and most of that we probably learn in kindergarten. It's at all where we're most effective in combating growing illiteracy in some groups. It's basically the way we have evidence to say, send the money to us, and we'll fix the rest. It's just that there's something else in Norwegian political life that calls for a little bit of asphalt and a little sleeper, a little health and something else – so we have to share the good, so we also have to share the good. But in a tight budget – and the budget for 2012 is a tight budget and makes greater demands on us on priorities than otherwise – we have prioritised kindergartens. It belongs to another committee, but I want to mention it because early work begins in kindergarten and has great significance for what kind of children start school. But I'll come back to that at a later stage. Then I want to go to primary and secondary school. There are two areas on which we are particularly committed in this budget. It is to ensure that we get a varied, practical and motivating secondary school because it has such a crucial role to play in the implementation of higher education — to keep our education up to date, to ensure that students with slightly different entrances to learning experience masters and have a taste for learning. That is why we are now starting the conversion of high school with this budget for 2012 because we are starting with the introduction of the electoral profession from the autumn of 2012. The first appropriations are therefore entered in this budget. We start with those who are in 8th grade, and I'm sorry about those who are in 9th and 10th grade so we can't start all the steps at the same time, but it's simply not practical. The municipalities need a little bit of time to step this up. It's fully funded. We pay by 25 pst. higher teacher coverage because we know that some more teachers are needed to put in place the electoral profession. In these days we are sending out eight different proposals for electoral subjects and the curricula in them at the hearing. It is very important that there is something that hits different groups of students. I am concerned that those with academic interests should also be taken through the electoral profession – for example. follow advanced steps in mathematics or in other areas where you have skills, and that those who are more practical and those who have artistic skills – whether in dance, music or theatre – should also have opportunities. Youth school is incredibly important as a starting point for more people to undertake secondary education. New GIV is the government’s main effort to achieve higher education. We have systematic cooperation with the counties. We're now counting equally in terms of seeing what kind of policy is giving the best results. We capture students at the 10th stage and give them a new opportunity if they have a lot of knowledge gaps that we know they're going to have to work with in higher education. We follow up on the students who are at risk of falling out through the course, so that the follow-up service and Nav follow up on them in particular. What we achieve then is: increased happiness – more students feel that they are masters, that they can work in a practical, varied and relevant way. We achieve that the labour force gets more labour. We have a dramatic lack of people with diplomas. Work must be an important partner in order for us to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1243	There is a lot of good international research on how to improve students’ concentration and cognitive capacity. It is not useful with more teachers, electives or the New GIV if the learning capacity of the students is not strengthened and increased from the way it is today. The representative Aasen was involved in this with a good diet and how to organize it at school. Research shows that, together with physical activity, this is a strong contributor to increasing the cognitive skills of students. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: Why does the government not support the proposal of the Progress Party for an increase in the fruit-and-green scheme in school, which will ensure that all students will be included in this scheme – and why is there no increased physical activity in basic education?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1250	This is because we have prioritised in a tight budget, as I was in my post, high school — getting to a more practical and relevant secondary school — and completion in secondary education. I share with the representative Hanekamhaug's emphasis that being in shape and eating healthy improves concentration. We've introduced two hours of physical activity for five to seven. Steps – it works well – and we have fruit and green in high school. That's the situation now, and then we'll see what we have money for next year. Otherwise – if the President allows – I have to say that the strangest thing I've seen in a great position for a very long time is the Christian People's Party's proposal on fruit and vegetables. They introduce some kind of theoretical fruit and greenery – they remove fruit and greenery and think that students should be informed about how healthy it is, rather than taste, and thus become healthier in the long term, probably. Let me say it this way; my approach angle to this is: Let's do it practical, concrete and relevant, so that students get good habits later. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1260	And otherwise, speaking time still applies...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1263	You could wonder if it's the folate level of the state council that makes her claim that no parties are proposing to maintain the Research Fund. It's wrong, I've checked the financial position now while the Council of State has been talking. The Progress Party proposes to both eliminate the 80 billion revenue flow. I'm going to add NOK 20 billion. SEK to the Research Fund. The question of how to expect 4 pst. Return – a question asked by several of the red-greens – I think it would be better to ask Sigbjørn Johnsen, who is responsible for 3,000 billion. kr that is not part of the Research Fund. So for electoral subjects: I am very happy that the Council of State is clearly on and has arranged for it to be both practical and academically oriented subjects. Then I wonder if the Council of State believes that there is enthusiasm for this project when the project is so obviously underfunded by the Ministry of Local Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1270	Elections are fully funded from the Ministry of Knowledge budget because we pay for the hours and the teachers needed. What has been the discussion around the municipalities is whether our secondary schools are equipped so that they have scenes to set up performances, that they have the equipment to make school newspapers online, etc. Some have demanded that in a narrow community economy there are limitations to what is practically possible in individual schools. I have some understanding of that, but it is not all the world's crowns that the municipalities have to spit in to get the electoral profession done. It's almost impossible to hit if you were to make an ear-marked arrangement, because there's so much difference in how the schools are equipped. I expect municipalities to follow up on both material and work equipment so that young people can have practical, good choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1275	In 2011, the Council of State has supported and renewed the Quality Competence Strategy, and the Minister of Knowledge discusses the strategy to also provide the right to further training. At the same time, we know that the government itself has significantly reduced the pace in relation to the number of teachers who will be able to participate in this further education every year. Isn't it an illusion to talk about the right to further education, when we talk about 1,700 teachers a year, and that it will really take 30–40 years for the teachers who are in school today to meet this so-called right? Why will the government not allow municipalities and counties themselves to organise further training, which will enable better adapted solutions and more teachers to participate? Sogn and Fjordane are a good example of how much more money was left for many more teachers, as they had a hand on the steering wheel in relation to the organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1283	When we talk about continuing education, it is something that the municipalities must initially take the primary responsibility for. They're the employers. We're talking about a wide range. In some areas we talk about continuing training perhaps in a few days. In other areas, we talk about continuing training where to take credits, and that is what is the starting point for the Aspaker question. I don't understand what I'm going to do to put the representative Aspaker in a bit of a good mood, because here I have actually got an agreement with the parties. The state does not pay 40 pst., but 50 pst., the municipality does not pay 40 pst., but 25 pst., the teachers do not pay 20 pst., but 25 pst. That's the parties and we agree. It is now recommended by the KS that municipalities should get on the road and raise themselves above these proposals. We think we can get up from 1,500 to 1700 in the first year this model works. But that there should be some realism in that we get from 1,500 to 4,000 with some little russian changes from the Right, the understanding that I can't even believe the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1290	We'll see. Elisabeth Aspaker gets replica no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1293	It's about a completely different arrangement of the offer – then we should have been able to dimension it to get more teachers through. I have another question, and it's about the plans for teaching places in the state, where the government parties in their comments say that they refer to an agreement, and that it's going to be 10 pst. more apprentices in the country. In concrete terms, this means that the state should increase its apprenticeship number from 850 to 935 apprentices. If we look at the percentage that it represents of the places that are drawn and that were drawn on 1 September, the state has 3.3 pst. of the learning contracts – 3,3 pst! By comparison, the municipal sector has 18.9 pst. and private sector 77,8 pst. The state is present in all the municipalities of the country and has large businesses around the country. Learning places are essential to prevent secondary school drop-outs. Is not 10 pst. a little bit of a ping-pong? And does not the state have greater ambition to be an active contributor to bringing down the dropout in secondary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1302	Well, absolutely, but we have to start with some percentages that are obligating, and then step on up from there. That is why all government councils have taken responsibility for increasing the apprenticeship effort in their fields and that the aim is to increase the state number of apprentices by 10 pst. by 2013. But the representative of Aspaker is quite right that it's not the large number. Now, it is also reasonable to assess the number of apprentices consumed by the State in relation to the overall state share of the labour force. Then it's not as dramatic as the representative Aspaker says. But the state has to be in the skill we're going to have in order to get a number of apprenticeships that enable those who choose to take their education. Local authorities must be involved, the private employers must be involved – this must be a spice layer. I am now working on that social contract, and fortunately we have a constructive tone in relation to the employer's side here. I have good hopes that we're all going to commit ourselves to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1309	For many years, the Christian People's Party was signing the only ones here in the hall who still talked about youth as the forgotten step. There were big needs, there were big challenges. Then came the signal that there was to be a message, and the Christian People's Party has given good consideration to the government both for telling it to come and for it to come. It is in Stortinget, it has not been fully dealt with, but it is already in the budget that the electoral professions are to be adopted, before the Stortinget has been allowed to participate and say something about it. But since I am also impatient on behalf of the step, I have chosen to be pragmatic about running a little before Stortingen here. My question to the Council of State – because there are quite a lot of other things in that announcement – is about the ministry, through the government parties here in Stortinget, going to be constructive and listening to the rest of the message, so that this becomes something that the whole Stortinget is behind. Or is the rest of what's in the message, done, so in the Storting we just have to nod to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1318	I have submitted a message about the secondary school that is now being treated in Stortinget. I've said what my opinion and the government's opinion is, and then it's the red-green parties in the Stortinget who are in dialogue with the opposition and find good solutions to it. I don't know exactly what it's like in the case to change, but I'm glad that it seems that there is interest and consensus about the electoral profession being conducted. We also have other significant challenges. We need to make all the subjects more practical, relevant and motivating. We now have good experience from the New GIV project in making reading and writing and billing more practical and varied, but we can't let the students be introduced to it at the 10th stage. We have to have an ambition that it will go through the entire high school. Another success criterion to achieve the promise of youth that we want in mastering and motivating is the competence of teachers and the competence of teachers to lead classes. We're going to follow the Youth Level Communication with an implementation strategy and we're going to reach all of Norway's secondary schools so that we can actually make a change in practice, and that the Stortinge's attitude regarding youth should not remain here with us, but be noticed by the individual teacher and the individual student. I am very pleased with the commitment that Dagrun Eriksen personally and the Christian People's Party has had in the matter of youth. I think we're a little hedgehog for fourteen who form a union.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1331	The council got a little extra speaking time, and we'll see in the next round, if it gets smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1335	I'm not going to ask about fruit and green. On the other hand, I will address the thread from the last answer, which was about the competence of teachers. On the left, we are committed to strengthening teacher training. There is a note asking the Ministry to follow up the 2008 proposal to investigate a possible transition to 5-year primary school teacher education. What I'm asking is how the department follows up on this, and when we can get a deadline for when the teacher's education becomes a 5-year-old.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1342	We work in many areas to strengthen teacher training. We have the new conversion in place. We have follow-up research, which gives us feedback on how we succeed in that. It was at the time that the Stortinget dealt with the scheme for new teacher training, not the majority to introduce 5-year teacher training. On the contrary, we have a number of trials and extensions that are carried out at different schools. We come back to Stortinget with a scheme for 5-year teacher training, but we haven't set a deadline for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1349	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1352	We live in a world of economic uncertainty. The crisis in Europe is serious. In these days, it's intensely discussed how we're going to get out of the difficult situation we're up into. Norway is better off than most of the others in this difficult time, and it is not random. The parties on the right have tried to point out that this is about oil revenue and happiness more than what politicians have done. This is, of course, wrong. But it can be difficult. In chaos theory, for example, The Butterfly Effect expression for a system that is very sensitive to the starting condition, where small changes at one point in a non-linear system can result in major differences in a later state – a bit like the unsocial cuts of the right parties tip the system in the wrong direction and give large student demonstrations in England. The Kaosteory also notes that complex non-linear systems are inherently unpredictable. At the same time, the theory ensures ways of expressing and dealing with such an unpredictable system through equations — something like social democracy in an unpredictable world provides a solid economy with free principles in higher education. We all know that politics has something to say. That's why we're doing it. Our experience from most countries in the world is that sudden discovery of large natural resources, as Norway found oil and gas, is a problem rather than a blessing. Our wealth and welfare development are about the policy and social model we have chosen. The Norwegian model is a solid fissure layer that ensures well-being, care, health and education, regardless of income. Our society brings people profit to think ahead and courage to take chances as innovators and entrepreneurs. Education for all is the very basic plank that allows this fission layer, and in the future – as now – we shall live on each other's, and not others', work. We're going to succeed. If we are to succeed in the globalised economy, we first need a knowledgeable, adaptable society. Secondly, we need a responsible economic policy. I've read Mette Hanekamhaug's blog, and I know she doesn't like it, but we actually need a responsible policy. Conversion is important. Then you have to be able to select a fault and still try again. Or you have to be able to take education if you lose your job. On the right, they state that they believe that one of the reasons for non-compliance is that students in a professional field are offered the opportunity to continue their study preparation. This is an error ending. The right-hand writes that they want to offer these students a different race, but I cannot find any suggestions for this in the setting. So in this calculation, we clearly end up with a negative sign of the answer. These students are not prioritised by the Right. Professional workers in Norway should be among the best in the world. Over the last year, the government has launched many measures to increase the relevance and quality of Vg1 and Vg2. We've changed curricula so that it doesn't prevent professional correction, we've regulated that common subjects should be professionalised, we grant 10 million. to develop training courses for vocational guidance, and we will look at the practice of bringing together many educational programmes in the Community. The government has also adopted a plan that says we should have 10 pst. increase in the number of apprentices in enterprises directly under central government. As someone was in here, it's still not enough. So I'm glad that there's a lot of consensus in the committee that we need more places to learn. I am pleased that all parties outside the Progress Party have gathered behind a comment that emphasizes that everyone is doing what we can at different levels, that we are using the consumer power we have as purchasers, whether we are the department, the underlying office, the municipality, the county council or other major buyers in Norway to ensure that there are approved apprenticeships with apprentices who receive tenders and assignments. It is very disappointing that the Progress Party does not end up on this. I also think it is a little strange that the Progress Party, like agriculture and rural development funds, uses the consideration of the districts as an argument for not being part of this. Having secondary education is the first prerequisite for entering the labour market, but it is also the basis for remaining there. It is therefore not satisfactory that as many as we see today do not undertake secondary education. I believe that the track and the policy that the government is now pursuing will lead to more people implementing it. The Party's educational policy has always been to increase access to more education. It's not just a policy to give everyone the opportunity to become the best version of themselves. It's a forward-looking community building project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1378	Education and school are a field of initiative for the Advancement Party. In relation to the government's proposal, we have added a number of important items. The final sum has become a lot larger than the government, but it will also be the earnings, both for the individual and for the big society. To get a better and more competitive school, we need to solve the big problems in school. At the risk of being accused of talking down the school it is not to get away from that we have approx. 90,000 primary school students, which is what we call weak readers, which means that children are so poor at reading and writing that they are struggling to cope with school. International research shows that 75 000 of these children could have been helped if effective action had been taken from 1st to 3rd grade. The largest measure these students are faced with is the teaching aid, where only teachers participate exceptionally. The promotion party wants the school itself to put in help where it needs to, and will remove today's legal offer. 40 pst. of those carrying out special education, are unskilled assistants without any form of educational or other school-related education. With such an input, the result is not optimal. Every third student in secondary vocational education drops out of school mainly because of low educational outcomes in primary school. When the ambition is for everyone to go along with, there's obviously something completely wrong with this equation. Continuing training of teachers is important and the Progress Party strengthens this. The school also needs highly trained, well-qualified teachers. The party wants to follow Finland’s example and introduce 5-year teacher training with emphasis on immersion in subjects in which they teach. For the Progress Party, adult education is a central and important part of the education cycle. Adult education, continuing education and training are of great importance in today's society. Many people have to retrain for different reasons, and today it is less often than before that a person is in the same job all his life, and the working life is much more changeable. The provision of adult education is fragmented and relatively not transparent, and the federations are calling for a comprehensive national adult education plan. In view of this, we have maintained and facilitated in our budget the development of a comprehensive adult education plan. Otherwise, we register that there is a strong consensus on the New GIV initiative at work, which hopefully will provide more skilled workers in the kindergarten and health sector, which is a major need, also in the light of the Interaction Reform that is due to enter into force from 1 January 2012. The Progress Party notes that the Programme of Fundamental Social Competences is an action that preserves and strengthens the ability of adults to participate in, or continue to participate in, the labour market. The Progress Party has increased its budget line by 20 million. kr for approval of several applications. The word ‘mathematics’ comes from the Greek word ‘mathematics’, meaning learning, study and science. Unfortunately, these sciences are not flourishing today. Real science is poor, and the shortage of engineers is growing. Business and municipalities are still reporting on the need for more engineers. This facilitates the Progress Party by funding more nationally based study places. The research team has combined the funds for 160 new study places in the field of engineering. In addition, we have provided money for new laboratory buildings at the University of Stavanger, at the UMB at Ås and at the University of Sør-Trøndelag. We have also provided funding for 160 new nursing places. Given Norway's proud maritime tradition, and because fortunately there is still a need for Norwegian seafarers, I am pleased that we have prioritised 8 million. SEK to MS ‘Gann’, belonging to Rogaland and MS ‘Sea Course’ in the South, both of which are good facilities for training seafarers. The party wants to treat approved schools of the same type in a non-discriminatory manner and has therefore granted 2 million. kr to Haugesund High School of Fine Arts. All the parties were positive and gave commendation to the Archives Foundation for their ability to nurture and disseminate knowledge of World War II, Innst. 22 S for 2011–2012, preparation of Norwegian war ropes during World War II. With this in mind, the Progress Party proposes 1.5 million. kr to the Archives for the preparation of materials that can be used in school. The opinions of the Church in relation to the government budget are that the 2012 budget is the weakest one that has ever been presented by the government in the last ten years. The Progress Party agrees with this criticism and points out that the majority has strengthened the church budget by 2.2 pst., which does not even correspond to the wage and price growth. Thus, the budget does not contain the necessary funds for the proper performance of the Church's tasks. The government’s proposal to zero the budget line for private church buildings was in stark contrast to the 2011 budget, where the Committee had a common note that clearly expressed the importance of the post for freedom of belief and the ability to exercise its own faith outside the Norwegian Church. The Progress Party is in favour of maintaining the financing system for private church buildings. I also refer to the opposition proposal, which asks that the government return to the Stortinget on a matter relating to the revised budget, which assesses whether the subsidy paid per square metre is proportionate to the current construction costs. The Audit Committee has just examined the Riksaudien’s report on the maintenance and maintenance of church buildings. The report’s study of the maintenance and protection of church buildings shows that many churches are in a sad building condition and that fire safety is poor. Not even churches built before 1650, which are automatically saved, are in custody. In fact, in this category, the majority of churches are found to be unsatisfactory — the whole of 41 pst. We owe both our ancestors and our descendants to change this. The bet must be increased so that 100 pst. this cultural heritage is preserved. The National Audit Office also points out in its report that the interest compensation scheme alone is not enough to address the shortcomings of our churches. The Progress Party believes that securing church buildings is both a national and a local task, so that they can be actively used in the churches and preserved as part of our Christian cultural heritage. Although church buildings are a municipal responsibility, the Progress Party sees that there is a need for state financial relief, and we have therefore granted 120 million in our alternative state budget. DKK in grants for the upgrading and fire protection of churches. In addition, we're proposing to increase interest-free loans by 1 billion. kr. In order to strengthen the foundations of the local activity of the church in the municipalities, the Progress Party has granted 30 million. kr for this purpose The government fails and does not follow up the Trot training reform. The Committee, in its joint opinion, points out the importance of having knowledge of one's own faith in the face of other beliefs and beliefs. For the Advancement Party, it is of great importance that new generations receive insight and training in the Christian faith, especially when we know that the teaching of Christianity is greatly reduced in school. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes to increase the grant for the Trot training reform by 30 million. NOK so that several congregations can make an offer to do so. The Norwegian Church's need for ICT bet is not mentioned in the government's draft budget in a single word. In order to strengthen ICT cooperation, which is essential for the efficiency of the church, we are strengthening the budget by 2 million. kr. The church also needs to strengthen the skills of the tomb service, so we're adding 1 million. NOK to this. Nidaros Domkirke and Oslo Domkirke have special tasks within the Church. That's why we're strengthening them by a total of three million. kr. Seafarers' Church is also of great importance to many, and the increasing number of jobs is not proportional to the number of employees. That is why we are strengthening the budget by a total of 9 million. kr. The lack of prestige in the Norwegian Church is not of a new date. This has been a central topic for years. The government assigned eight new posts last year. Then it goes without saying that the Church must reduce the activity to keep the budget when, according to the latest figures from the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, 356 new posts are needed. Then the number of members will be as in Denmark, which has 2,500 members per pension, and which is also the second most recent of the Nordic countries. Norway is of course the last. If we stick to information in the budget, the need is 300 priests. The government's lack of willingness to fund several priests may indicate that they will not take on the important role of the clergy in caring for the Norwegian Church as an open and active people's church. Moreover, the Progress Party has strengthened the performance service by 30 million. kr. The final sum of the Advance Party budget is probably a good deal higher than that of the government, but it would also give a lot of better results if our budget had been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1431	I can hardly hold the previous speaker's high, impressive pace, but still. Norway has, to a small country, a number of excellent researchers, research environments and institutions in several fields: medical research, petroleum research, marine and climate research, to name a few. It is no exaggeration to say that our best researchers in the areas where Norway is well off belong to the best in the world in their fields. It is important that these excellent Norwegian researchers are given arms and opportunities for work at home, but also the very best opportunities for international projects and cooperation. International research cooperation is crucial for a small country such as Norway. So we have to spend more resources, not less, on this in the future. And we have to make sure that Norway remains an attractive co-operation country for others. Then we must have ambitions and willingness to bet. We need to step up research budgets because international competition for the best minds and projects is becoming increasingly tougher, and because there is a lot of investment elsewhere. Unfortunately, in this area the government is unable to follow. It is a real zero growth in the research budget both in 2011 and 2012. Unfortunately, Norway is at risk of slowing down in the knowledge race. Thus, excellent research is being produced in Norway, but we still need to raise the level of ambition. In the discussion on whether or not research is being done in Norway, statistics are sometimes a little darker. Norway uses at least one of the Nordic countries as a percentage of gross domestic product. But so do we per capita, even though the Minister of Finance has said something else here in Stortinget. The other countries have reached, or are in the process of reaching, their percentages — for Norway, unfortunately, it seems almost impossible. For the sake of order, the government's goal is 3 pst. of GDP for research, while today the figure is slightly above half, about half. 1.7 pst. The major challenge in this is to increase the research effort of industry. We believe that in the Right, and that has been stated several times by the Minister of Research in previous debates. But the striking thing is that while the Right strengthens the FUNN scheme and grants more to the programmes from which companies can look for money, the government is not doing anything to stimulate business to increase research efforts. On the contrary, the government has tightened the tax FUN, it cut off last year in the nutrition Ph.D. system, and now, therefore, the gift enhancement system is being removed. It is difficult to understand how the government can still aim for business research to increase with this policy, but it is, of course, the government that needs to explain. The right has greater ambitions for Norwegian research than the government. The total increase in the research field is 800 million. kr in the right-hand alternative budget. It makes research one of the biggest investments in the Right Budget for 2012. This means that the Right’s title in the budget Security through knowledge and competitiveness is not empty words, but describes realities in the budget. The largest single addition in research has been an increase in the free resources for basic research over the last two years, regardless of the theme. So I'm talking about the biggest additions in the Right Alternative budgets in the last two years. Now the government has also realized the need for this and is strengthening the free resources. That's good. Therefore, the maximum right-hand investment in 2012 will be in another field, namely commercialisation. There is a high potential to increase the return of publicly funded research and to stimulate closer cooperation between academia and business. Both parts - show the statistics - are needed. Right-hand increase of 100 million. SEK to the FORNY 2020 programme means almost a doubling of the commercialisation effort. It is a paradox that in Norway we only use approx. 1⁄2 pst. the commercialisation of the research budget. Otherwise, the Right Tax Fund scheme strengthens, we strengthen the so-called BIA programme for research and innovation in industry, we strengthen our efforts for international research cooperation, we allocate money to approx. 100 more fellows and post-doc positions, and we're continuing the gift-enhancing system. It is quite remarkable that government not only leaves adequate priority to research, but also actively commits to making it more difficult for individuals to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1448	Several have been involved in the international situation. I would like to join them and say that only a few years ago the economic situation in Europe seemed reasonably safe. Now we see that the picture has completely turned its head, and many countries are in deep economic crisis. Norway and the other northern European economies have so far been spared the worst effects of this crisis. The Nordic countries have long been known to be both economic successes and welfare societies with a high quality of life. The causes of success can be many. Flat structure and high level of education may be two explanations. Research and our ability to harness new knowledge is different. In order to avoid being in situations like those we see around us, the government has presented a tight draft budget for 2012. 2012 is the year when we're going to make sure our economy has a good foundation. It's not the year of the big new bets. Within such a tight framework, as a research and higher education minister, I have been engaged in making choices that ensure that the scientific sector is developing further. In the field of research, my first priority has been to ensure long-term sustainability, keep efforts at a high level and ensure predictability of research appropriations. The Research and Innovation Fund has provided important help to Norwegian research for many years. Now the fund's embedded weaknesses create major problems for research appropriations due to lower interest rates and a lack of compensation for price and wage growth. If we didn't act now, the research would have been 1 billion. kr less in 2015 than today. In order to ensure long-term and predictable research appropriations, the Government therefore proposed that the return from the Research and Innovation Fund be converted into ordinary appropriations in its own budget headings, thus also ensuring a price and wage adjustment. So we rely more on Storting's politicians than on the financial market in this case. When the state budget was presented, the entire opposition came with very harsh criticism from the government because it proposed this. I record that the opposition is now proposing to wind up the Research Fund in its current form. This cannot be interpreted differently than the opposition thus admits that the government’s arguments were correct. I also note that the opposition's proposal for a new fund structure only solves one of the problems of today's fund design – the problem of variable interest on deposits. The opposition representatives here today have definitely not responded well to the second challenge or to the whole of their design, and the second challenge is how to adjust the rate of return every year. The model presented by the opposition thus has the same weakness as the former Research Fund. In next year's budget, we have presented research priorities that show important road choices for the future, and we want to invest a total of 25.5 billion. kr in research and development in 2012. I want to add that in addition, we invest 27 billion. kr in higher education – in addition to the research budget. My second priority in research has been to increase the opportunities for researchers to pursue the so-called curiosity-driven research projects – many here in the Chamber have spoken beautifully about good researchers. By increasing the funding for free project support, FRIPRO, by 100 million for 2012. kr, we get more opportunities to obtain research applications that are based solely on quality. With universities also giving priority to this through their own framework, we're getting a joint commitment for FRIPRO of 200 million. kr. Another forward-looking field of investment from the government I want to bring forward here is biotechnology. Biotechnological research is an important tool for better health, future value creation and a better environment. The Government therefore proposes to establish a new strategic programme in the field of biotechnology. This is a commitment to follow up the priorities of the government's biotechnology strategy, which will be presented this week. Of course, we are also working to meet the strong growth of youth. The continuation of the study places established in 2009 and 2011 leads to an increase of 240 million. kr in 2012. It represents an increase in higher education capacity of 2600 places from 2011 to 2012. Overall, over the period 2006–2016, the government will have financed an increase of 19 300 study places. We also propose to continue work on creating a more robust and diverse university and higher education sector through cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration. We are therefore proposing to continue the 50 million SAK grant. kr. We've seen various suggestions from the opposition. They crack a little bit in every direction, except for the proposal on alternatives to the fund itself. But I conclude: although they have a sharp rhetoric, they do not challenge the government's budget proposals for some major priorities. We have presented a research budget with a high level of effort and important priorities for the further development of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1474	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1477	I am beginning to believe that there are up to several different budgetary documents, both in the position of the Financial Committee and in the position of the Church, Education and Research Committee, for the Council of State and I have obviously not read the same documents. In any case, in its proposal in the position of the Financial Committee, the Progress Party has 100 billion. kr. I've said that once before – I hope I don't have to say it several times. I wonder about this with the gift enhancement system. There are different signals. As late as Monday, I was at a conference at the University of Oslo. State Secretary Kyrre Lekve said that it is problematic that private donors – i.e. the Cancer Association, contributions from Norwegian people, in particular – should be in charge of how the Ministry of Knowledge's research funds should be managed. Then we hear here that the representative Tingelstad Wøien says that this arrangement is very good, we have to go on. I don't know why the government cut. I would like to hear what measures the Council of State itself will put forward to strengthen the objective of more private participation – which I have not been included in the submitted budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1490	I have recorded that the Progress Party is involved in the joint proposal for a new fund structure, although it has its own proposal in its alternative budget. I guess that's the difference, so I think it should be pretty good. With regard to the priorities set out in the research budget, the first and most important explanation of the government's priorities is that we wanted to promote free project support. It's increased significantly; last year we increased it by 60 million. kr, this year we increased it by 100 million. kr. Universities have said in their promise, which matches this, that they will also go in with 100 million. kr. The most important thing for us has been to get the opportunity for research-driven research. There is a long-awaited area of investment, and here we have really managed to get a good stake, while at the same time betting on biotechnology, on research schools and on a number of other measures that are involved in what I said in the speech, to maintain our efforts on research and to ensure predictability. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1499	Let me start by giving credit for the government almost following up last year's proposals of the Advance Party, with 100 million. kr extra to FRIPRO. I think that is good and a very correct assessment, even though it is not enough this year either. So to NOCUT. The government’s budget proposal states that in 2012 NOKUT will be able to increase the investment in existing education programmes at the major Norwegian universities, which have to some extent been neglected in recent years, which is important in the debate on SAK and which I feel the Council of State is committed to doing, namely assessing the large mastodonts of Norwegian higher education. But then it has come to pass that it is not at all correct, as I interpret it. The question then is whether the Council of State considers that the Stortinget and the Church, Education and Research Committee have been adequately informed of the implications of the proposed budget for NOKUT.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1507	We inform Stortinget about the whole basis of our priorities. In the case of NOCUT, they do a vital job of ensuring quality both existing and new training proposals. We are aware of the situation reported by NOKUT – they also have to monitor existing activities and quality assurance. I can assure the representative that the Department has an ongoing dialogue with NOKUT on their tasks, on their resource needs and on their priorities. Of course, we should brief the Storting if it turns out that they do not have sufficient basis and framework for the tasks they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1514	I want to return to the gift enhancement scheme, which is a scheme that has contributed 1.3 billion in a few years. kr to important Norwegian research. The fine thing about the gift-enhancing system has been that this extra money that comes as an addition from the state goes to the researchers and not as a tax deduction to the rich people or foundations that give money. So, in a number of comments on the budget earlier, the Council of State says that she is insecure – both she and the government, obviously – as to whether the scheme has worked. I know that the Council of State is a supporter of fact-based and knowledge-based policies. What has the Council of State done to make this scheme less uncertain? What has she done to gain more knowledge of how the scheme has actually worked?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1521	As I said before, the main argument that the government is not proposing the continuation of the gift-enhancing scheme is that we give priority to other important efforts in the research area – primarily the effort to support the free project, but also a number of efforts to stimulate business research. The representative Warloe himself was involved in just business research. It's my big concern, and I don't think a gift-enhancing system will play any special role from or to in business research. The gift-enhancing scheme is a mechanism designed to provide additional incentives for the recipient of research, State research or university research. That's the basic research it's all about. But we have a big challenge in that the state, if we now stick to our vision and the measure of percent of gross domestic product, is roughly in the goal of its 1 pst, but we have a long way to go before business has achieved its goals. It's a cross of thought that must be there both for the Right, for me and for the Government. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1530	I have noticed that the Council of State has been travelling to the United States, and I perceive that the intention to visit institutions there was to facilitate that even more students can travel abroad and do their studies there. I think that is good, and that is an intention that the Council of State and I – and Right – fully agree with. Nevertheless, I have to ask: is it not a paradox for the Swedish Council of State to invite more people to an education that, due to the lack of funding for the first year, depends to a large extent on the ability of the superiors to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1537	What is the situation of student funding for students abroad is an agreement in which the Bologna Process countries are involved, and Norway is there. This means that we calculate in a slightly different way than countries that have previously completed high school — with us they go one year longer than they do, for example. do in the United States. That's why we don't go into financing until the second year in any of these countries. But what's nice is that there's an increase in the number of students to the United States as well. At the same time, it has been important for the government, not least in this budget, both to maintain the arrangements we have and to ensure that we get students to land that we think is important to interact with and cooperate with, for example. The BRIC countries. In the BRIC country of India, English may be a good language to use, but for the other countries, additional language skills are also required. We've also put that into this arrangement, so I think of this as a very good way to spread student exchanges to new countries as well. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1542	The President will remember the speaking time also for state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1545	Not long ago, I had a very strong meeting with surviving sailors. 20 pst. of those who continue to live, were present at the baptism of «Hestmanden», a ship that sailed both in World War I and II in the history of sailors. Their story is a proud story because of the efforts they made. It's a sad story of fate that many experienced along the way, and it's a shame story of how society treated them when they came home. Now the peace and documentation centres are making a great effort and a good job of documenting the history that has been. They're doing research, and they're confirming everything that's happened. Will the government now take an initiative to review this field so that we can document some of these stories before it's too late?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1552	I cannot say to anyone else that this is a subject for which the entire Ministry of Knowledge – probably also together with other departments – has a responsibility. It's not my responsibility alone. I think the representative has a lot of good arguments for the need to go through the different parts of our history, but I also record that around the country there are exciting actions going on, trying to take care of history and correct some of the injustices that many people feel exposed to. So here all the good forces have to be added together, and you have to do your best to get both documented history and made it available. But I think here we also have to assume that there are some splice layers that need to be added to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1557	The left and the government disagree slightly with regard to the research and higher education priorities themselves. But now I'm going into a smaller case, and it's about the greenhouse in the Botanical Garden at the University of Oslo. I assume the Council of State is well aware of that. I'm actually assuming that she's very much in order for this to come. This is a question where nothing happens until it is physically done. My question is, When can we expect the department to launch an initiative to complete the greenhouse on Tøen?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1564	Construction is an important part of the priorities we have to do within our budget. Because both I and the government have focused on this year's tight budget for 2012, we have found no room for anything but one new building in this year's budget, and that's in Tromsø. On the other hand, we're very happy that we've done that, that's an important part of the government's Northern Region bet and an important part of the technology bet. But back to the University Museums in Oslo, as Elvesuen asks. There are two important challenges. We have both the Museum of Cultural History and the Museum of Natural History, and the greenhouse is part of the Museum of Natural History. These are things that we know are there, so we get after each clarification both in terms of location and content, I hope. As far as the greenhouse is concerned, we are very aware of that situation. The answer is simply that there has to be a question of prioritisation on our many good construction lists that are needed. There were previous questions here about the University of Ås, as an example, but we do what we can to get a good priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1571	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1575	One of the country's leading mathematicians was Niels Henrik Abel. During the discussion today, up to a number of politicians have tried to establish closeness to Abel's history. I don't have to, because Abel came from Finnøy, and myself I grew up in Bjørheimsbygd. That means we were practically neighbors, except for the small detail that he grew up in the 1800s. That was the geographic proximity. But his story also illuminates up to several political points. Let me tell you: Over the course of his 26 years, he achieved much more than most of us do in a much longer life. There are many reasons why Abel succeeded, not least about his talent and his willingness to work with the talent. But it is also known that after having had a teacher who was brutal and little pedagogical, Abel later got a new teacher who was the straight opposite of the previous one. As the representative Lien was involved in his post, the new teacher gave the students his adapted and independent tasks. When the teacher discovered Abel's talent, he made sure to continue giving Abel tasks that corresponded to his professional skills. This story illustrates several things: the value of the good teacher, which is also supported by a lot of research, the value of adapted education, which is enshrined in the Training Act, the value of always continuing to have professional progress, which is an important goal for our government, whether the student has strong or weak skills. That's what our budget for primary school is about. This year, this is particularly well illustrated in the early school electoral field, which will be introduced from the autumn of 2012. This is an elective subject with clear learning requirements, where the student can master skills goals for already existing subjects, but in new, more practical and varied ways. In addition, we ensure the means of continuing training aimed at the young in classroom management and math and reading training. It's taking the student and the student's skills seriously. It's for today's students to be the Niels Henrik Abel's teacher once was for him. Let me tell you a little bit more about Abel: he lived, as I said, in the 1800s and wanted very much to travel abroad to study, but he lacked money. So Abel wrote a personal letter to King Carl Johan hoping to get support to go abroad. After much over and over, he got his long-awaited scholarship. Our students shall not depend on the king's mercy. We see the value of going abroad, studying and coming home again with professional, linguistic, social and cultural skills that they didn't have when they left. For Abel, it was Paris who designated itself, for the city had a strong mathematical environment. Today, China, India, Brazil and Russia are the countries that stand out and stand out because they are growing world economies. That is why I am pleased that the government parties together have secured support for the first year of Bachelor's training in these countries, as well as language support in two semesters for those who choose to study in Russia or Brazil. Our government has a clear knowledge thread in its budget. The debate today would have been much more exciting if the opposition had managed to gather about a separate blue thread, but they haven't. The four opposition parties disagree on much, from fruit and greens to hours, to the free principle, to screening tests and to homework. In addition, I have to say, after listening to Right's complaints about the research effort for a longer time now, that it is a bit funny that they have only increased the research budget by 0.03 percentage points. It is rather weakly delivered when such strong claims have been made about the level of ambition of the research budget. This tiny increase also comes with a shadow side, because the Right-Eldering Primary School is to give money to research. So they cut in the bet on the youngest kids to give a symbol sum to research. This is particularly interesting, because there is a lot of and thorough research on the importance of early interventions and targeting resources at primary schools, but there is no research that suggests that, for example: the gift enhancement scheme has the desired effect. Ironically, then, the Right does not base research on how they want to spend their money on research, and they do not base their knowledge on their primary school knowledge policy. Finally, I would like to say that there are several aspects of Abel's history that we can learn from. Abel had faith in himself, he contacted the king about his ambitions, he showed the power of action and stand-on-will. It's very bad that the Right doesn't have the same belief in the country, education and our economy, but instead this always talks down. The right-hand side says that we lack competitiveness, despite the fact that we do well on many indices that measure this. The right-hand side suggests that our country is going badly, when the truth is that it is going very well, and that the future work is to ensure increased value creation through economic stability and investment in knowledge. Had Abel talked himself down, as the Right does with our country, he would never have received a yes from the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1594	The Danish scientist and mathematician Piet Hein said: “There’s something nice and wise about numbers. They know what they will, and they do what they will." Unfortunately, the government is not very mathematically oriented. The budget submitted may indicate that they are a little uncertain about what they want, where they go and where the final destination is. Innumerable times I have stood here on this pulpit and talked about the school matters that we in the Progress Party believe must be given priority. That was the plan today, too. The plan was to highlight the increasing demand for skilled workers, the importance of raising the status of the professions, mentioning our support to the vocational schools and the Kristiansund University Centre and refer to the increased appropriations for the advisory service. I would talk about setting up a national hospitation scheme, equalising practical and theoretical competence and referring to our full funding for the implementation of elective education in school. The problem was that when I got home yesterday, I came across a You Tube video, a video that was posted by a young boy named Jonah. He's been bullied for many, many years. Every day he is subjected to bullying, violence and harassment. He is still only a teenager, but has already moved to consider several times whether his life is still worth living. Unfortunately, the presence of bullying is still too large in the Norwegian school. We have thousands of children who are bullied every single day, who are afraid to go to school, and who are being scarred for the rest of their lives. It's no use doing what the government does in the budget, talking about improving the school system at an early stage, New GIV and more choice, without actually addressing the students who are going through this mill. Many of us wear a mask, either in private, at school or in the workplace. I admire the enormous courage needed to make Jonah dare to lift this mask. This will make it easier for more students in school to do so, and that's exactly why we in the Progress Party want to strengthen the school health service. The problem is that the government in the budget mentions the importance of the school health service, but unfortunately it is not important enough to be prioritised there. We have increased funds for municipalities, so that they can provide a better counselling service and a better schooling service for students. Repeatedly, including in this budget, we've talked about all schools having to have an anti- bullying program, and that we're going to set up a national school representative. We know how important it is to prevent bullying, we know how important it is to see every child, that they are well at school and can get learning outcomes there. It's not often that I choose to quote feminist, but I'll do it now. The feminist and author Rebecca West said: ‘People call me ‘feminist’ just because I express feelings that separate me from a doormat.’ People call us egoists in the Advance Party, because we are dedicated to putting individual people before the community. But we live well with that. There has always been an essential thing that distinguishes socialism and liberalism, and it is that socialism lays the conditions for the formation of a society and then to place people in it, but liberalism lays the conditions for establishing the best possible basis for individuals, who then jointly form a good society. We're busy creating a good school. That's why we've prioritised electives, that's why we want to set skills requirements for homework, that's why we're strengthening measures to improve the situation of apprentices with over 1 billion. NOK, and that is why we are betting on the continuing training of teachers. But at the same time, we also have the ability to see that individuals in school must thrive, so that these measures actually work. All our proposals to prevent bullying and improve the situation for those who are being bullied have been voted down. I hope and believe that it is because of political polemics, not because you necessarily disagree. The government addresses a tight budget as a reason for a lack of investment in several key and central areas. But we in the Progress Party believe that no matter how tight a budget one spends, one must find room to strengthen the individual's right to live a life without violence, harassment and bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1622	The Church, Education and Research Committee has a very wide field of work, and the tension is always great in terms of how the debate takes place. However, so far in the range of budgetary debates, there are some rhetorical repeaters who are quite certain. Therefore I will say and affirm: Having ambitions for the future is not talking down the present! On the other hand, having eyes fixed on the bulkheads can quickly go wrong. It's important to remember that it's only in terms of multiplication tables that you can establish that the order of the factors doesn't matter. When it comes to children and young people's learning outcomes, it's absolutely vital that things get in the right order. The basics must be learned first, and the efforts must be in proportion to what individual students master and abilities. Mathematical formulas for teacher density and group sizes are therefore not essential, but that the effort is targeted and provides the best basis for further learning for each student. Right will increase efforts to make teachers and school management competent to assess the resources to be deployed, and where, and we will have simple systems to make decisions quickly. So to higher education. Universities and colleges are experiencing very good applicants. It is also nice that several of the subjects that have been characterized by gender bias, now seem to get a much better distribution. The government has allocated funds to continue new study places from previous years. However, there is no provision for new places of study. This is badly related to the government's own statements of student numbers. What is also worrying is that the slowdown that has occurred due to cost growth over several years and that is not adequately funded is not included in this budget either. The government has received clear feedback from the university and higher education sectors that this reduces the quality of education and leads to less follow-up of each individual student. I fear that this development is the reason why an increasingly large group of students do not complete the studies. This is wasted resources, financial resources, but not least human resources! I am pleased that this year, too, the alternative budget of the Right has a clear prioritisation of increased basic subsidies to the sector. The right has repeatedly called for the government to put in place a new plan for the construction of student housing and to change the framework for the grant of such housing. Also at the presentation of this budget, the Council of State is beating its chest and is very pleased that the government has followed the old plan, which is built on a very different number of students than is the reality of today. It also shows clearly, once again, the number of students without accommodation at the start of the study. These are getting a bad start to the studies – or they may even have to say away from the place! 14,000 students were in that situation at the start of the study in the autumn, but the Council of State is satisfied, will not cancel the distinction between so-called press areas and others and will not use the Right's advice to use all the good forces to get more housing in place. It's hitting the students! I have gladly registered that the government parties have moved in terms of support for the first year of the bachelor's study in non-Western countries. When they have decided to reject the opposition’s proposal in the past, the reason has been that ‘this is not a higher education’. So that's it, and that's good. It is also gratifying that the representatives of Aasen, Hagen and Tingelstad Wøien from the red-green parties told VG Net that this could be the beginning of something even greater. I hope so, too. Now, it is only Brazil, Russia, India and China – and only some universities there – that should qualify for this support in the majority proposal. When the same newspaper expresses a hope that many more people will now choose such education, it is badly linked to the sum in the budget. The 520 000 set aside covers only a few students, in terms of size, the number that are currently starting studies in these countries. I just want to remind you that the right has put in 11.7 million. kr extra for this – and of course also includes those who choose such an offer in the United States. State Council Aasland has shown several times that more people have to study abroad in order for us to get enough places to study for everyone. Perhaps that is why the majority has now turned around, giving this support. However, in order for this to make a distinction, the ambitions must be considerably greater than what we see in the 2012 budget. A principle has fallen, and it is announced that this is the beginning of something larger. We welcome the amendment and recall that the revised budget is a good opportunity to adjust this figure up to the level proposed by the opposition parties. The time doesn't go by, so the church area gets me back to the next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1644	Religion and life - vision organisations are of great importance both to individuals and to society. Religious and life-seeking organisations are important value intermediaries and community builders in society. We've been reminded of it in time after July 22. The Norwegian Church took an active part in the care and crisis management. Despite the attacks that hit us in the middle of the holiday season, the Church mobilized all the good forces. Churches were kept open, and very many sought there to find comfort and express sorrow. One of the things that impressed me most in those days was the Church's will and ability to be inclusive and to meet different people with openness, respect and sensitivity to the individual's choices and values. The primary objective of church policy is to facilitate the preservation and development of the Church of Norway as an open and inclusive people's church, with a broad lashing among its members. That was also the starting point for the church settlement, to which all the political parties on the Stortinget have joined. On the basis of the agreement, there are now proposals for amendments to the Constitutional Paragraphs that have until now regulated the state church system. The agreement takes into account the growing diversity of life that characterises today's Norwegian society, while agreeing that the Norwegian Church will continue to have a separate anchor in our law. The change in the relationship between state and church is based on the implementation of a democratic reform in the Church in cooperation with the Church's organs. The church elections in 2009 and 2011 have been conducted with a background to the premise of the church settlement. The evaluation of the democratic reform is planned to be submitted to the European Parliament in spring 2012 and will form the basis for the decision of the European Parliament on the proposed amendments to the Constitution. It is part of the democratic development of the Church's peculiarity as a religious community that the ecclesiastical bodies themselves must be able to make priorities and choices of strategies. Work among children and young people through reform of the Church's faith training is an important area in the further development of the Norwegian Church as a people's church. Although the 2012 draft budget does not represent a further step up of the reform, it does not mean that the government's ambition for the reform has changed. However, annual appropriations for the reform must be assessed on the basis of the budgetary situation. It has been the starting point since the adoption of the reform. The government has invested in the Trotstraining Reform by adding 150 million to the Norwegian Church. kr for the reform of our period of government. The government budget for 2012 is a tight budget, marked by the need to keep up the use of money. However, in a tight budget line, the appropriations for church purposes have been continued. We'll grant more than one and a half billion. kr for church purposes, in addition to the significant funds provided by the municipalities’ grants to the Joint Councils. Then it is a little surprising that the representative Tord Lien is concerned that he will not meet any priests between Oslo and Trondheim. In fact, there are still 1,300 priests in the Norwegian Church, and I'm sure they're still going to have a seat between Oslo and Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1668	There are not five flat ears for performances or for the Church's necessary continuation of ICT in the Minister of the Church's budget. The church itself expresses that it is the worst budget of the time. In fact, ICT bets are a very important part of the Church's necessary efficiency, which can release funds to other areas. What advice will the Minister give to the Church, so that they are freed from funds, for example. Trophy training, sermons and other diaconal work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1673	I agree that ICT is an important tool for renewing the public sector – it concerns both the Church and very many other parts of the public sector. Therefore, the government has also contributed funds to the Norwegian Church in order to develop the necessary planning. So I think it's important to hold on to the fact that those who can take out efficiency gains also contribute to the implementation of the measures they want to take. ICT is then important. I believe that the Norwegian Church through a budget of 1.5 billion. kr can also find funds together with the municipal sector, which finance the joint councils, for the necessary development of new IT solutions, which will serve the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1680	The Minister of the Church says that the Church has been helped to develop ICT plans to improve efficiency, and points out that it is important and also important for the Church to be able to streamlined through ICT development and development. After all, the government has a large-scale commitment to improving the efficiency of the public sector, which should be more accessible to individuals and businesses — to society at all. But as far as the Church is concerned, it's an abrupt stop, and all of a sudden it's no longer interesting to contribute anything more to ICT development. The responsibility is then partly transferred to the municipalities. My question is then: Is this part of municipal responsibility, or is it the responsibility of the Ministry of the Church to participate and facilitate the Church's development of ICT with a view to improving its efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1687	The financing of the Norwegian Church is mentioned in the church agreement between the parties, and it says that today's division of labour is fixed. This means that the State is primarily responsible for funding performance positions, and that it is the municipal sector that contributes funds to the joint councils for the operation of the Norwegian Church. That division of labour I intend to maintain for as long as the agreement between the parties concerned remains in place. Then the state has contributed some development funds, and we contribute to funding the central church administration, including the episcopal councils. In developing ICT solutions, the different levels of government in the Norwegian Church must be shared. With a budget that is relatively large, I also believe that the Norwegian Church is looking at the efficiency possibilities of using new ICT systems, and can also be involved in and fund them, so as to collect gains.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1694	In the budget proposal, we can read about a number of excuses and reservations regarding the funding — and escalation — of religious training. There is also doubt about future escalation in relation to the agreed 250 million. 2003-krona. Can the Council of State clarify what her intention is, and what she will fight for when it comes to following up the training of faith?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1700	In the setting of St.meld. No 7 for 2002–03, the Stortinget indicated that 250 million were to be spent. kr of the Trot training reform and that the reform should be introduced over a period of five to ten years, depending on the economic situation in force at all times. That's what I'm dealing with. And then we get back to the individual amounts, any price adjustments, in the annual budgets of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1705	I then feel that we are not being told the intention of the Council of State regarding the follow-up to the training of faith, which I asked for. It is worrying when the initial religious training is not fully funded in the budget of the year. The same applies to clergy. Now I'm worried about Tord Lien's approach to priests -- I don't think it's going to be as bad as he might have suggested here. Nevertheless, there is a challenge in the case of priests in the Norwegian Church. We're experiencing a population increase, and we're experiencing that more priests are struggling with health, because they have to take vicariates. What action will the Council of State take to ensure a performance coverage that provides good employment for pastors in service?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1712	The most important thing to ensure enough clergy is that we have enough access to priests who take education. I think it is worrying that we have too poor recruitment for the prestige profession, and that there are too few who are going through a practical theological seminary, which enables us to function as a priest in the Norwegian Church. This is why the Ministry works together with organisations within the Norwegian Church, the Preste Association and others, to ensure a good deal of priests who can serve in the Norwegian Church. I am pleased that we have a good cooperation with the organisations, and we agree on the instruments that should be put in place. I think, among other things, The reform of training is a good source of recruitment, as many young people then come into contact with the Norwegian Church, and it can help many to remain motivated to take part in performance training. We will need that in the future, because, as the Committee notes, it is a worrying age structure in our performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1717	Since the Council of State will not give any signals about the future of the Trotskungsreform – and I think it creates disappointment without her being able to – I'm going to try to challenge her a little bit about the history of the Trotskungsreformen. It is the most important reform since the Reformation, has been discussed within the Norwegian Church. In the first few years of the red-green funding for the Trotstraining Reform, it was done with re-prioritized funds within the church budget, while last year, as we could also read from the Council's comments, and which was also duly noted by the Council of State, it was possible for the first time to obtain fresh funds for this reform. So, as I said, this year, neither really has been adjusted for wages nor adjusted for prices, and you've pushed it into the dark. Then my simple question is, with 351 billion extra dollars that this government has had for distribution, you're satisfied with that 20 million. Are the only fresh resources that have been provided for the training of faith?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1722	There is no doubt that we have had a government budget that has been tight this year, where we have had to make tough priorities, and I am in line with the priorities that the government has done in its budget. It's a budget that meets the situation that we have around us, and in many areas we could want money for more good purposes. But it's kind of strange when I look at the opposition's proposal on how to solve this, because after what I've registered, the Right has suggested increasing the funding by 6 million. kr, Christian People's Party with 40 million. kr, and the last government partner who was involved when the Trostraining reform was launched, have no proposal for an increase at all. So it is not quite clear what the opposition thinks about what is the right level and the right progress in the matter either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1727	It's nice that the Council of State is trying to calm me down on my concerns about the priests in Dovreberg and around, but it's now that we have 1,300 priests in this country, as the Council of State says. I think it is good that the Council of State is concerned about the lack of qualified priests. The first thing you could do then is maybe give the vicariate priests a firm addition. That would probably solve some of the problem. We have had a goal in Norway that we should have one pastor per approx. 2 000 members of the association. I feel that the government has gone away from it, and that's what the Council of State would like to comment on, but what I fear may be about to happen is that you just want to see a centralization of the services. Then I get to hope that in Hamar and Lillehammer etc. continue to be a priest in the future, but we may see a centralisation of the services in Norway and that districts will face challenges in trying to maintain their daily activity in the church.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1732	I think a lot of professions that require special training have challenges in being able to recruit well and widely in the districts. Therefore, it is important that we have a broad rural policy, which helps to ensure that there are activities around the individual districts. It's part of creating activity, and it's often that priests have a spouse who needs a job, and it's often people who need a job that requires higher education. So the fact that we maintain a high level of our district policy and have an active district policy is probably the best way to get priests out as well. Then there are some tools that have been used to provide priests in those areas where it is most demanding to get it, among other things. the write-down of student loans and some other measures, where some payroll funds have been provided. I think that's the way to continue to stimulate recruitment even in the most pig-grown areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1737	So the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1740	The crisis in Europe must be behind schedule when we are to launch the 2012 course. The unemployment rate is rising to a startling high level, and in particular young people are experiencing a hard time. It is a tragedy that the youth's first meeting with the labour force should be a queue for unemployment. This is the world around us. This is not something Norway can vaccinate against. Therefore, our focus must be to maintain competitiveness and profitable jobs. It is then advisable to state that since 2005, when Stoltenberg took over, there are 250,000 new jobs established. Today, we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and are in the throes of employment. Then it's natural to expect that especially the Right will end with repressing Norway, as the representative Warloe did today from the pulpit. Among other things, it was a claim that it was cut in the nutrition doctoral system. That's not correct. We're a little tired of getting the business to use the nutrition system, but there's nothing cut in the system. He also claimed that the focus on commercialising research results is only on 1⁄2 pst. I have to admit, I'm not a very good mathematician, but I think the direct budget is 280 million. kr, and it's well above the percent, after a quick head count. This doesn't look particularly good on the Right, because they should be known as a formed party. The opposition, and especially the Left with Trine Skei Grande at the head, claimed that this is the ‘worst research budget’ of ten years. The representative Sanner from the Right is not much better and claims that the research has been a balancing item in the budget. Well, there's a lot of political choices, but the reality is that there's been a growth in the research run of about 50 pst. since 2005. So it's a real growth of 27 pst. Hardly any other sector has experienced the corresponding growth. But in one area, I want to keep the opposition in mind: unfortunately, it has been cut and a real decline in research permits, but it was only one year, in 2003. If I don't think wrong, it was actually under Bondevik II, then right in government. So let's stick to reality. I think it's a good research budget. In the fall it has been a little sprout for debate on the direction, objectives and funding of our research. In that context, many people had waited for the opposition to flourish with new proposals for new policies, not because there is a screaming need, but because it is in the opposition's dynamics. But it was silent as in the grave. There was no new proposal for a new policy, but we heard a well-known hit which was a recent innumerable verse by «Money, money, money». I would also like to say that in relation to the use of words – and not in relation to the voice – I would say – there is an increase from 0.92 pst. to 0,95 pst. Mi wonder is once again linked to mathematics: how are they going to get this to trigger the big gap of 40 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? There is no correlation between reality, actual policy and rhetoric. Let it go that there are different opinions about the gift-enhancing scheme, but it is, as the minister said, uncertain how sure she is. We know that the first three years triggered this 950 million scheme. kr. The last three years, this fell to one-third, to 350 million. kr. If this system were brilliant, it should, in my opinion, have gone contrary: it should have been an increase in the release of private capital. But it didn't happen. So the government's conclusion is that it's better to bet on the food-Ph.D. schemes. And the Treasure Fund. In addition, I would like to remind you that one of the major successes of higher education and research policy in recent years is the investment in the open competitive area of FRIPRO. Now, time goes by, so I want to comment briefly on a couple of statements that have already been made. The representative Aspaker claimed in a reply that the NHO had submitted its proposals to the opposition. It doesn't depend on the research officer in the NHO. Then the historian Tord Lien tried on a mathematical exercise when he talked about how misguided the efforts in science, mathematics and technology were. That's what I'll come back to in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1763	It is right that the representative pointed out that time is running fast. The advantage is that it is just as fast for all the representatives!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1766	Several representatives today have shown many great historical personalities. I have probably read fewer history books than the rest here, but my father used to say that it's a good idea to have things on it a drive with, and I agree! [[Laughter]] Because we also need a lot of people in the future who are nice with their hands and who think both with their heads and with their hearts. It is particularly important in the care profession. Today’s situation is that 2000 qualified applicants are looking for nurse training, while there are only 1000 places to study for these applicants. It is a major challenge, especially in the light of the Interactions Reform, which requires more competent personnel, more advanced personnel with a high level of competence, especially those who, for example: many of the elderly who currently live in a nursing home have six different diagnoses. In addition, more and more specialised hospital services are to be moved to the municipalities. The reform shall start on 1 January 2012. If a significant growth in education is not already started, we will be left behind with this reform all the way. This is why the Progress Party proposes to increase the number of places of study by 160 next year, and we also say that there is a great need for a comprehensive plan to increase the capacity of health education in the years to come. It is, therefore, that increasing competence in this sector too will be entirely decisive in order for us to have good welfare in the years to come. Furthermore, it is crucial that we begin to facilitate the direct involvement of several of those taking these courses with patients, with the elderly who need help, rather than with other things. In that perspective, it is especially true that we do not focus more on welfare technology than we do today. A significant commitment to welfare technology, as the Progress Party advocates, will allow technological development, new jobs in Norway to be devoted to technology development, and it will save and free resources in healthcare, so that those who work in the care sector can spend time on those who need care, rather than on other jobs. The future lies in technology. Then it's absolutely decisive, with the recruitment situation we're seeing now, and when the lack of study places for the new applicants who want to enter these educations is as big as he is, because the government doesn't bet on it, that we at least manage to re-train and re-train those who are already in the service, and that can increase their competence easily if a set of measures is taken. Unfortunately, the government has no plan for this either. This means that in a situation where more and more older people in this country have more and more complex diseases because they live longer, we don't necessarily have the professional staff we need to help as the years go by. There is a concern this government has chosen not to take seriously, but the Progress Party does so in its alternative budget. We also talk a lot about research today. Then it's important that we also look at medical research. If we're going to continue the welfare development we've had in this country, it's decisive that an increased commitment to medical research. In the Progress Party's alternative state budget, medical research increases by 90 million. kr, e.g. for more cancer research, more research on ADHD, more research on stem cells and a range of other research areas. Then there have also been signs of regionalisation in health research. Then it's absolutely decisive that we actually take over the situation we see. Norway has a few research environments that are completely in the throes of medical research. These are the research environments – like Oslo Cancer Cluster – which are special rights, which work internationally, which do not look at regional borders, but which develop new medical research across all enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1784	The appropriations for research and innovation represent one third of the budget envelope for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in 2012. It's not for no reason. Research is the cornerstone of the management of marine and coastal resources. In the suspension of this budgetary procedure, the Committee stresses the importance of developing all production and products within acceptable sustainability, environment, animal welfare and food security. I am pleased that the Committee is raising this point, because we are talking about the focus of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Research. Environmental sustainability is an indispensable condition for a seamat. The follow-up to the sustainability strategy for the aquaculture industry remains a high priority in 2012. Key issues are research into genetic impact between farmed fish and wild fish, and on disease and spread of infection. In particular, research communities are developing units of measurement for acceptable environmental impacts. It is therefore a pleasure to be able to tell that the Research Council in these days allocates 20 million. kr for a cooperation project to quantify the genetic effects of escaped farmed salmon on wild salmon populations. I have great expectations that this considerable stasis, and cooperation, will provide us with better knowledge of the relationship between wild salmon and farmed salmon. It is through more efforts from our leading knowledge environments that we can ensure a sustainable farming industry that contributes to the creation of value added and jobs along the coast. Let me draw up three other examples of projects I have great faith in to take us into the future in a good way: The first is the MAREANO programme, which is actually an adventure. Through several years of targeted and multidisciplinary cooperation, we have surveyed seabeds and natural resources in important Norwegian sea areas. MAREANO provides us with data and produces a map material that is unique even in a global context, and knowledge is used. MARANO knowledge underpins the overall management plans for sea areas, for fisheries management and decisions on opening up new petroleum activities. The MAREANO programme has been proposed with a total of 36 million. kr in the 2012 budget to identify the seabed in the formerly contested area west of the demarcation line against Russia. The second example is HAV 21. Now we're doing marine research for nearly three billion. kr annually in this country. That is good, but we must also dare to ask basic questions, such as: Are we using the resources correctly? What kind of knowledge do we need in the years to come? Are there areas where we need to strengthen our efforts? The future is created by the present, and that is now we build the skills we need in 10-20 years. That is why I have set in motion a strategy process, called HAV 21, led by a steering group with representatives of industry, management and research. But many of the challenges are so big that we can't take the goal of finding the answers alone. This is not least about climate change and the growing resource demand facing the growth of the world's population. This is also the background to the initiative of the Norwegian authorities to establish a common European marine research programme, the JPI Oceans, which is the third example. JPI Oceans is now in the cast and received official support from the EU Competitiveness Council this week. A total of 16 European countries participate in the JPI Oceans and coordinate their research efforts to find answers to common challenges. Research under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is extensive and important. It will lay the basis for us to live on marine resources today and in the generations to come, and for us to be able to live up to the vision: Norway, the world's leading maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1818	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1821	Let me first say that I think it is nice that the Council of State is in for the third time as Minister of Industry and chooses to give priority to participation in this very important debate for the future value creation of the country. I'm also glad that the government council mentions HAV 21, and I expect that she is aware that there will be a very soon need to fund a new marine laboratory in Trondheim, which we will certainly get the chance to come back to next year. However, the Council of State itself has been concerned that the Research Council has allocated much more money to marine research — insofar as it is also to marine technology research — than it is on the basis of a purely mathematical approach to the money coming from the Ministry of Fisheries to the Research Council. The question then is: is the Council of State concerned about – now that the Research Fund is closed down and the Ministry of Research is directly responsible for granting funds to the Research Council – that it could challenge marine research in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1832	I thank the Committee and the representative, Lien, for noticing that I am here. It's simply because research is absolutely one of the most important things in my area. Although the debate may not be very direct in my area, the general research debate is also important to my area, and I appreciate it very much, and I like it very much, the Storting. As far as the Research Fund is concerned, everyone agrees that the background to the change that is now taking place is important. Then I record that there are some people who doubt that it is going to be politically determined what it is going to be researched, that it gives cause for concern. I see no reason for that concern, because large parts of the research budget that I am presenting are, of course, politically determined and adopted. Politicians understand the importance of research. I think that's going to happen in other areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1839	I'm not quite sure if I fully agree with that very conclusion that all politicians realize that research is important. I was going to say that it would have been nice to also have had State Council Breck here, so that we might have discussed whether there was a need to launch a research project on how to ensure that there is enough butter in Norway – but it might be a bit later today’s discussion. One of the key issues in the previous budget debate is the design of a new ice-going ship. That is my question, because this year's review is somewhat different from what it has used to be in the past – as the Committee has also pointed out: what is the time horizon for creating a new ice-going vessel for the Marine Research Institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1846	Now it's like this government has said that an ice-cream research vessel is to be built. It was also mentioned in the Northern Region Communication, which was presented in Bodø quite recently. Then it's probably a little misunderstanding that it's the Marine Research Institute that's going to have an ice-cream research vessel. There are several environments. These include: The Polar Institute, of course, it's the Marine Research Institute, and it's everyone who's going to do research in ice. It is a project that has been reviewed, it is quality assured, and it shows that the project is mature and can be realized. So what it's about is finding priorities within the financial framework this year. Now we have submitted a tight budget for the sake of not least the sector for which I am responsible, so there was no room for next year's budget. But it is quite obvious that a project that the government has decided to implement, and then we get back to funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1853	I want to give the Council of State and her department credit for giving priority to putting money aside for important research within their budgets. That's very good. But what is the big challenge for Norway as a research nation, which distinguishes us from most other countries, is not necessarily the size of public budgets, but the lack of money in business for research. The Minister for Research said in an earlier exchange of lines here today that it was her great concern. It's a concern that we share in the right. So the question is, what can you do with that? I wonder if the Council of State, because she now has the political responsibility for a large and important industry, and also has the past in business itself, can say something about what she thinks the government can do to strengthen the efforts in business research, in businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1862	I would like to thank you for the honour and, to the extent that we do not give priority to research. It is absolutely fundamental to the work we will do in the next round in terms of resource management. I am so lucky that I have also taken over a department that has prioritised this for many years. I have said that that area is what I am protecting, most of all too short, because it is absolutely crucial for us to be able to make the right decisions in the next round – not least in relation to the work I am doing right now, in relation to regulations. In fact, Norway has been highlighted in several measurements as an absolute world leader in the management of marine areas, and this is, of course, due to the fact that we have good knowledge. With regard to business priorities, this industry, for which I am responsible, actually has its own research fund, which they pay through a levy to a common fund, which is once again being used. So there's no doubt that the industry can contribute even more, and there's something I'm talking about with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1871	Early in November, we were able to read a press release from KLIFF, where we went out and announced that the farming industry was an accumulation of environmental sinks, lack of competence in the environment and lacked procedures that were good enough to take care of the biotopes we have. Fortunately, at the same time, a research report funded by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Environmental Protection showed that the industry had competence and also showed that the footprints were not real. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Ministry's research budget robust enough for the future to be able to reduce more or less unprofessional performances from trade unions under the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1880	I am not familiar with the concept here, because the research report I received a few days ago, funded by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Fisheries, states that on a regional basis – and here are two fjords, Hardangerfjorden and Bokenafjorden, which have been specifically investigated – one cannot say that the industry together contributes to eutrophication. But at the same time, the report also says that we should not ignore the fact that at a single location level there is a bad water exchange. So there can still be someone who has an improvement potential, I think. As for the robustness of the research priorities that I have left, it is one of the backgrounds that I have also started the Sea 21 process. It's to see if we use the money we have in the best possible way. I think it's a potential to get even more focused, which I hope we get a response through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1887	I have a question at the intersection of the Ministry of the Environment. It's very good with the research done in the farming industry. But then we also have another industry that is growing in Norway, namely the mining industry, where there are problems with emissions. Then I think in particular about South Varanger and among other things. The book fjord, where it's about magnafloc and lilaflot. There is also an interest on the part of the fishing industry in research into the impact of emissions from the mining industry, which is growing in many places, on the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1893	With regard to the issue of emissions from mining, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast is a department in the sense that we have the Institute of Marine Research, which has some knowledge, and then we have the Directorate of Fisheries, which is a party to the case. That's the role we have here. Anyway, it's clear that gaining knowledge about our fjords and marine environments is crucial to making the right decisions. So I'm going to be honest to say that I don't have professional expertise in this area, but it's an area where I see that there are interesting opportunities to create new jobs around the districts. It is quite obvious that having the best possible knowledge of the effects of landfilling these wastes will be important. I'm absolutely sure that we have a lot of knowledge, but that we can probably also get even more knowledge there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1900	It's close to a Sunday morning to ask a government council that's so busy with research, about what kind of research report is justifying her fear that Norwegian shipowners won't be able to hit the City Tunnel. But I won't. Norwegian farming is a very important industry, but it has significant environmental challenges. It is close to asking the Council of State if it is satisfied with the efforts made by the government to research in this field in order to contribute to a more environmentally friendly and efficient nutrition, or whether it does not see the same need as for example. The progress party is doing this to strengthen this research work in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1907	Let me repeat for the probably fourth time from just this pulpit that it is not I who is in doubt about who hits the possible City Ship Tunnel or not. There are consultants involved in quality assurance. I am very happy that we have quality assurance of our big project – that is what it is said, for either the fourth or the fifth time. As regards environmental sustainability related to the aquaculture industry, priority No. 1 in marine research. So it's like in the different research environments we have, there's a lot of exciting projects going on in this area. Lacetus, as I mentioned in my post, the genetic impact of escaped farmed salmon and disease and spread of infection are particularly high priority areas. There's too much money being researched. Only in my budget will we spend about 260 million. kr in 2011 in that area. There are also several departments that contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1916	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1919	If we look at the rest of Europe and what they have on the agenda of these days, we are privileged to jam. We are privileged that in these troubled and economically difficult times for the countries around us may have great ambitions in relation to the knowledge nation of Norway. We're lucky to say that this is a budget to secure jobs, value creation and well-being. The situation in Europe shows with all clarity how important it is to keep order in budgetary policy and in private homes. I'm proud of our educational vision, which says Norway should be a leading knowledge nation where all people in the whole country should be able to develop their abilities and live good and meaningful lives. Everyone shall experience challenges, learning and mastering in school every day. Through professional correction, close follow-up and high quality training, all shall be so well-equipped as to leave the primary school as to be able to complete further training. Knowledge, research and technology should be our foremost competitive advantage. Society's need for labour and knowledge shall be addressed through social contracts in continuing training, colleges, colleges and universities. The working party has at all times been occupied by church and church questions. We want a red, inclusive and living people's church all over the country. If we are to be closed with this, it is absolutely necessary to have a well-functioning pastoral service that is present in all communities. The priest’s role in the church must be strengthened, not weakened. Although the Norwegian Church is usually referred to as a state church, it is in the first row a local church with a large lashing in the municipalities. The socket is the basic unit of the church. It should also be in the future. In the ongoing debate on the future church system, I believe that leadership, coordination, structure and synergies are becoming very important, something that needs to be done. In spite of a tight budget, which is absolutely crucial to securing the Norwegian economy, we have nevertheless given priority to continuing the promises for church purposes. In addition, the governing parties in the Committee, in close cooperation with the Christian People's Party, have found room for extra permissions for three selected areas. In this context, it may be tempting to say as Jon Lilletun: A good budget has been even better. We have increased the permits to Seaman's Church by 0.5 million. kr. We have increased the rights to Oslo Cathedral by NOK 1 million. We've passed on the permits to private church buildings with $9 million. kr. The collaboration with the Christian People's Party to get these extra promises in place has been excellent, I think I'll say absolutely decisively. Thank you to the Christian People's Party. The incentive for private church buildings, which were initially entirely out of the budget proposals, was extra fun to get in place. I know that there are many private church buildings that have been used after the holiday this year. All of these had an increase of $825 per m2 from the state in its financial plans. The proposal cannot be applied for until after approval and use of the buildings, and the deadline for application is 1 June. These can now be exhaled easily. I would like to signal that this system should continue. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of the National Church as a coherent size. This will be of great importance to Church – not least for people to know the connection to the Church of the People, wherever they live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1960	Statistically, there's a very small chance of winning the first prize in Lotto, but that's what almost all of the people in Norway have done. We've had luck born in the world's best country to live in. But it's not luck, however, that makes us sail safely through troubled waters over the last few years. We have conducted a responsible economic policy that we have kept in order in our own house. It is possible that it is not always the nicest thing to do – perhaps it could be more polite to gamble with Norwegian economy by setting aside the rule of action. But as you know, after a short joy comes the sour wean. The reality in Europe is that young people are training themselves to be in jobseekers. Here at home is the Right mute of admiration for a Swedish policy that makes sure that young Swedes have to come here to get jobs. In recent years, the introduction of school money has almost become a European trend, and strong demonstrations have been encountered in many European countries. I am proud that in this way we do not follow the fashion, and that we protect the free principle, despite the fact that forces on the right-hand side are still questioning it. A week ago, we saw a crying Italian welfare minister present strong budget cuts. The TV images say something about the desperate situation in several European countries. It says something about the seriousness, so let's not forget that the dark clouds across Europe can get our way quickly. That's why we have to keep order in our own house. We have to say no to something to fulfill the most important thing, namely to take care of our jobs. In a globalized world, we must constantly recreate a competitive business, because the world around us is changing. For the Workers' Party it will never be relevant to compete on low wages. At a time when competition is becoming tougher, we must be good at innovation, high technology and quality. If the Norwegian business community could claim to be international, language, cultural understanding and an international network are key factors. Then we need more Nordics to master this. In China, there are over 30 million students, and every year there are 2.5 million new students. You don't need an advanced math formula to realize that there'll be a lot of students. And with Chinese universities larger than Norwegian cities, they undoubtedly have a competitive advantage. We need to take part in this knowledge development, and that is among other things. This is also why our own Minister of Industry has said that Norway should have up to 3,000 students in China. The Indian economy has grown by 8 pst. annually since the turn of the millennium, and economically, culturally and politically, the dawning power of India is turning towards the West. It has never been easier to establish in India than it is today, and Norway has enormous opportunities. The government is targeting strategies to facilitate increased business activity in India, for at a time when power is moving east and their gaze is turning west, it is important that we seize that chance with both hands. But unfortunately, it is in stark contrast to the number of North students in India. It would have been tempting to say that the government's goal is to double the number of students in India – or ten times – but in the good Norwegian public school, I've learned that multiplying by zero is just customs. This is where you need a stronger tilt. That is why the red-green parties are now taking action. I also want to praise ANSA, who has been good at making the importance of just this visible. The red-green parties are now introducing study support in the first year of the BRIC countries to ensure that more people have a real opportunity to study in these countries. Sometimes politicians have something to learn from mathematicians. The essence of mathematics is not to do simple things complicated, but to make complicated things simple. So let me simply sum up and quote the president of ANSA who described the red-green proposals as follows: 'This is a great joy!'
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1983	The President would point out that the term 'customs' is not a parliamentary term, but what was pointed out by the representative is obviously mathematically correct, so it will pass! The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e1988	I take the floor in this debate to point out how important a completed education is for the relationship with the labour market. Without a good schooling, it is difficult for young adults to maintain a link with the labour market. Without mastering basic skills such as reading, writing and billing, mastering a job can be perceived as difficult. Therefore, school policy is one of our most important tools to ensure that all students are given the opportunity to take an active part in the future. We know that about one in five goes out of primary school without being able to read and write properly, and that one in three doesn't complete secondary education. Unfortunately, these are young people we often find in statistics on the field of employment and social affairs. A school that provides all pupils with customised training, and that pays early effort, counteracts this. I think it is positive that the red-green government has continued the Bondevik II government’s “New Chance” programme to ensure training for adults without sufficient basic skills. The programme is now called the "Program for Basic Skills in Work", known as the BKA. However, in recent years it has been shown that the amount requested far exceeds the appropriations, and then the Right believes that the appropriations need to be increased in order to meet more applications. We're worried that a high proportion of adults are struggling with failing basic skills. Many adults experience that because of poor reading and writing skills, they feel uncertain about future work. In its alternative budget, the right has proposed the allocation of 25 million. kr extra to strengthen the BKA programme. The right has also long been concerned that dyslexia-wearing students should have access to the necessary facilities at school. We are surprised that the government is still maintaining the cut in the grant for help for students with dyslexia. There is a broad consensus on the need for all children to acquire basic skills. That goal must also apply to dyslexia pupils. In view of this, it seems strange not to contribute to these students being able to access the tools they need. Often, the tools are very important for them to acquire their skills during schooling. I am pleased that the Right takes responsibility when the government does not, and we have proposed in our alternative budget to grant 20 million. kr to reintroduce the grant for help for dyslexia students. Finally, a concern from this representative, and that is the building mass at UMB at Ås. In particular, the beautiful Urbygung is in a wretched constitution. The two upper floors are ordered closed by the fire service, for safety reasons, so that the university struggles with a very lack of space for teaching. Construction is currently a worrying limiting factor for universities and colleges in many of the areas with the highest number of priority applicants, especially in and around the major cities such as Ås and UMB. The slowdown puts the quality of study under pressure and also makes it difficult to meet the expected increase in the number of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2010	Economic crisis in Europe does not appear to affect the rhetoric or policy of the Right and the Progressive Party. It's almost not to believe that these parties have the stomach to draw a misery picture of Norway in a situation where we have a unemployment rate that is a fraction of our neighbouring country and a well-functioning welfare state that maintains and strengthens services – in a situation where many countries cut, not just to the bone, but to the bone. Also in the field of education and research, it is yawning to hear from the right. This despite the fact that the resources of the area have been increasing under the red-green government. Of course, the decline of Norwegian school from the right-hand side is demotivating for students and school staff. But in spite of this, it shows, among other things. The PISA results show that Norwegian school is getting better. What values we use in education policy are very crucial for what kind of society we get. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that we will continue to work for a school that offers equal opportunities and that places even greater emphasis on early efforts and the reduction of differences through learning adapted to the individual. Here really comes the differences between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are strong ambassadors in order to privatise as much as possible and keep the door open for commercial actors who intend to make money in school, and not least the same parties want a competition school in which one gets grades far down in primary school. We in the Workers' Party do not want a profit- and competition-based school. We simply believe that it will make the goal of equal rights to education impossible, and will lead to more people falling outside. This is simply a cynical policy that only takes care of some, not so different from other right-wing populism. We are, of course, demanding, and we are taking important measures – several hours, early effort, more resources, the fight against dropout and new teacher training are some of them. Our welfare policy is about doing things together. We want a school for everyone, a school where values like community and cooperation, rather than egotism and competition characterize everyday life. We think that we get the best out of man that way -- both professionally and socially.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2017	I take the floor because I would like to talk about the small crafts, in and of crafts in general. It is well known in this room that the small crafts are exposed to the traditions they stand for. It's sad because the skills they represent can get lost. It is also sad for the other cultural protection, because the competences of the small craft trades are necessary for the preservation of important parts of our cultural heritage. It's sad because the knowledge that the small crafts tradesmen represent, and the way we treat them, in many ways say something about the status we see in the profession of general. In examining this year’s budget, it is gratifying to note that government parties are on a note describing their desire to look at the class size of private schools with small crafts. I hope that means good news for several of these schools, among other things. in the case of Hjerleid secondary school which has had difficulty obtaining a smithy profession, e.g. This is a first step in terms of several steps to be taken to meet the needs of crafts. Firstly, on a general basis, there should be more liberal access to private school services, at least where the public does not provide such services. Secondly, it is appropriate to provide for other standards of study and class size. It is about accepting fewer students, but it is also about accepting longer periods of education. The system we have today, where everything is to be pushed into three-year modules, is a course of education based on the premise of the theoretical subjects. It has suffered both the professional and the craft industries for a long time. In addition, it is important that the scholarship scheme which has been a probationary scheme for several years should become a permanent and more extensive scheme. I'm talking about the scholarship scheme handled by the Centers for Immaterial Cultural Heritage, which is about one-to-one training. There is a strong need to extend this scheme with several scholarships to ensure the number of crafts that are intended to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2029	Our research institutions have environments that conduct excellent, world-leading research in a number of areas. But we also need the research that is more non-profitable and that can quickly be used and transformed into a valuable asset in business and society. It is said that the wit is equally distributed throughout the country. It is then important to facilitate research and development activities throughout the country. In this context, regional research funds, research institutes and higher education institutions become incredibly important in order to mobilise all available knowledge. It is necessary to facilitate research for the development of the district-specific industry. It is not operated by intensive farming on the Finnmarks. Finnmarkswirdda, on the other hand, is an amazing arena for studying the northern lights or the ability of different plants to withstand pasturage. The quality of the research carried out in the districts needs to be equally high by sea. However, if we are to succeed in developing and strengthening business and society, good coordination – interaction – between all actors contributing to this development, research and innovation for businesses is crucial. It is best to focus on the needs of enterprises when different development and research environments. It is not appropriate for different operators to run on each other and compete for research missions. We just need more research in business, not just for business. It requires impetus and clear demands for research and perhaps a different type of convergence between research environments and enterprises. Here I want to take the opportunity to praise two schemes that work very well; these are the Arena programmes and the NCEs. We need more of that sort of work! The interaction between the various contributors is crucial, and I see robust regional research funds as central to this interaction. Two words about SkattenFUNN: Evaluation reports say it works according to purpose and leads to more R & D in companies. TaxFUNN is user-friendly and rights-based, subject to adequate R & D content in these projects. Here, too, it is necessary to remember that the needs of the companies must be at the centre. Enterprises must define their development opportunities and research needs. The tax FUNN projects must not be introduced into the enterprises by an overactive corps of researchers and consultants working in the nest of other birds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2046	There is a wide gap between the needs and the availability of caring hands in the health sector in our country. Therefore, it is very important that we keep as much of the education services that graduate personnel can help to close this gap. I run a business in Hedmark, and among my employees, there is a woman who has decided to take care of nursing. I lose after all probability a very good employee, but society gets a couple of hands and a warm heart into the health sector. Of course, for her who has two young children, it is very important that she can set up a most effective course of study. The combination of online collections, on-site collections and not least the possibility of training practices has been crucial for her decision to apply for a place of study at the Royal College Centre in Kongsvinger, where, as we know, we also have a local hospital. From the moment I moved out of Oslo and moved into Hedmark almost 20 years ago, the topic of education and competence has been high on the case map, and concerns are expressed for a low level of education in the county in which I live. It is therefore very gratifying that in the Kongsvinger region we have had a decentralised education offer since 1996. The bachelor's in nursing has long been the main emphasis of the student group at this university, with a stable recording of 30–40 students each year. In satisfaction studies, students provide very good feedback on the study and not least on the possibility of combining different forms of study. In an SSB report, the Labour Market for Health and Social Personnel towards 2030, it is clear that we have an estimated deficit of 13,000 normal-year jobs in this sector. One of the main priorities of our alternative budget is knowledge and competitiveness. We therefore propose, inter alia: concretely strengthen the Royal College Centre in Kongsvinger by 1.5 million. kr to ensure that this offer is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2061	Then the debate is inside the sunset, just like Oslo on the outside of the Lion's Hill. It's been as far as expected, hasn't it? Some speak out, and some speak in the sense of ‘seeing something darker on the situation’. But for all intents and purposes: the spirit of mind is much less between us in this budget debate than it has been in other debates in this Chamber in the autumn, and I appreciate that very much. I repeat from my main post that it can't be anything but that the ability and the desire to outstretch an ideological or educational policy other course, or to write out a blue oppositional thread, is not present. Filling up with some opposition money at the top of government projects and asking for faster progress plans for government projects is well more to support our education and research policy projects than to challenge it. But if you're looking carefully, you might still be able to find some of the previously clear and ideological concepts, such as: «private schools» shall mean the navigation if they actually appear as a discussion within the framework of the Private School Act. Some examples of free-of-charge discussions can be re-examined, but most of them are designed as a cautious question in the case of camp schools. The narrow instrumental concept of knowledge really seems to be history – an abandoned position, and thus a position of a posterity. It suits me well, because I think it makes a lot of sense that one should raise up the practical-esthetic subjects again, one should lift up the culture school, and one should pay tribute to the profession, which is right and proper in a modern knowledge nation like Norway, and not least to be future. With regard to the numerical debate, I may have read a little too sloppy, but I don't think I have seen the Right support for the Progress Party's slightly cautious proposals in this debate. So it's also soon over and out and so maybe to view it as a more historical position. The fruit-and-green resistance is in place; it shall have the opposition. It became a little too little ‘schoolic’, it became a little too much well-being and health, and it is dangerous for children, sail if it is seen as very important for adults and the elderly, cf. front page of Dagbladet for the last two years. Or, it probably beats a little bit both ways. So a couple more points. To Tord Lien, who claims that I have not read well enough when I criticise that the Progress Party will remove the support for organisations such as the Islamic Council, the Norwegian Christian Council and the Cooperation Council for the Doctrine of Faith and Life: Yes, I have. That's exactly what's so important, that those organisations are there to glue this together, work together across beliefs and beliefs – we're going to support them that way, and we're lucky to do that in our draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2072	I've recorded that the historian Tord Lien and more with him today, with changing luck, have tried to be mathematicians. Well, they must be allowed to do that. For my part, I'm going to think about what blessed Socrates said 2,500 years ago. He talked about mathematicians, and that he had met many of them, but he had yet to meet someone who was able to think a reasonable thought. There is a need for some cleanup in the claims that the opposition has made today. I think I'll start with that called Tord Lien. He is totally wrong when he claims that the government is characterized by paralysis when it comes to investing in mathematics, science and technology. These areas are, in fact, an area of activity alongside health and teacher training. But Lien's trying to be a mathematician and completely stumbles into his own numbers. Maybe he should stick to history. It is true that there has been a slight decrease in the number of graduates. There is not a lack of study places from the government, but a lack of students for these subjects. So this is what I'm 100 pst. agreed with the historian Tord Line and not the mathematician Tord Line. I will go further to the representative Henning Warloe who, during the debate in the autumn, has claimed that, at a time of crisis, Europe as a whole is investing in knowledge and research, with the exception of Norway. Well, this was the committee leader Marianne Aasen in the introduction, but what's the situation, is that there's developing a new educational class division in Europe, because the situation is very different from what Warloe says. I'll take a short goat's bite over the situation. We know there's a good deal of land that's now cut up to 50 pst. of the permissions of this sector. Of course, we find countries like Italy and Greece there, but we also find countries like Scotland and the United Kingdom in this group. In England we see cuts of 40 pst. on the current readmissions until 2014–2015. Within the education budget, they are reduced by up to 79 pst. And who gets the bill? Well, it's the students who get her. It is not the unemployed industrial worker's children who are going to study higher education in England, on the contrary. The Nordic countries are doing well, together with Switzerland, the Netherlands and Poland. But the other countries were struggling with their budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2087	I asked for the word again to comment on the part of the budget that goes to the Norwegian Church. Following the presentation of the State budget, I have recorded that there has been some disappointment over the level of the 2012 budget. It's been said earlier today, and I mention it too, that we could probably be better. But the budget has been kept tight this year, also for the Church. I understand the commitment and expectations of the Trot training reform. I also understand the commitment to the demanding conversion processes and the ongoing democratic reform, that it is challenging for the Church as an organisation, as a HR employer, and for the employees who want to stretch far to fill the many and important functions of the local services. Let me stress the following: the centre party will continue to work to ensure that the Norwegian church is strongly present in all parts of the country. The term ‘public church’ is only filled in with the content of the close meeting between the services and the needs of the local population. The power of the Church of the People really got us to see this summer. It's very important for the Church that the government makes sure that we have a good municipal economy. That work is not over, because we know that the local authorities' situation is still demanding. However, both through the general increase in the municipal framework and through the interest-rate compensation scheme for church buildings, church purposes are given priority and better framework under this government. We are also pleased that we have reversed the proposal to cut subsidies to private church buildings. This year's church elections, where the Norwegian Church has been responsible for the elections, have obviously been demanding for the Church as an organization. We are still waiting for the evaluation of the church elections, but we can all now see that there is still a way to go before we can be quite satisfied with the implementation of the church elections. That so many voices were rejected by the bishopial election is not good. We need better solutions to that. And we still have something to do with participation from the churches. There is clearly a continuing need for improvements in Kirka’s efforts to involve voters and to improve the electoral system. I feel that Kirka sails are also very concerned about this, and for the Central Party, this is important when we are going to continue to work on the assessment of the future of the people's Church. I think there is a lot of exciting work going on in the Norwegian Church – work that I hope will draw the Church and its members even closer together. Reformation of the service life, the Reform of Religion Education and a stronger focus on the dissemination of church art in cooperation with cultural life is exciting work and will hopefully revitalize church life locally. It'll be exciting to follow the Church forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2106	I have promised that I will return to the Norwegian Church, which is now in an historic, unique and exciting period. The desire to be a self-governed and independent organisation is becoming a reality, but it also presents some challenges. Elections to church bodies and internal democracy systems are some of them. It is important that the Church now gets to work on this, and I perceive great willingness to make the necessary changes to make this work well. With regard to the 2012 budget, it is strange that during this period the Church is under an additional burden of not granting money to increase costs and follow-up to the tasks performed by the Church. The planned increase in religious training activity has stopped and not even the real cost growth of this important work is funded. There is a lot of pressure on the priests, and this time it is not taken seriously in the budget that more achievements are needed to perform the services we expect the Church to do. The Councils of State mentioned inter alia: the period after 22 July as a good example. The right proposes to cover the increased costs of the faith training already in progress — there is an under-coverage of 6 million. NOK – and we propose 10 million. kr extra for performances. Then it's nice that a majority has found together in a package that takes care of Oslo cathedrals with the same sum as the Right has proposed, and not least that the grant to church buildings is still preserved. To the representative Freddy de Ruiter I thought it was okay that I answered already in my main post, because I knew what was coming, but I can repeat this now. Having ambitions for the future is not talking down the present. If you have looked rigidly attached to the bulkheads, on the other hand, it can quickly go wrong. Finally, a little bit about private schools. I just want to remind you of the wise words Marianne Aasen said about the private schools at the conference of the Christian Free Schools Association on the Gardermoen this fall, where she concluded that the private schools are part of the Norwegian school, and admitted that the private ones were probably forgotten in many contexts. This she promised to take seriously and correct. This budget does not show any sign of change in this area, but I know that this budget was completed long before the recognition came. We are therefore looking forward to changes at the next crossroads, so that employees and students at private primary schools, secondary schools, vocational schools and colleges can feel more valued.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2119	I would like to refer to the contributions from, among others: Svein Gülseth and Anne Tingelstad Wøien and will post some comments to Oslo Cathedral. I am very pleased that the government parties and the Christian People's Party agreed on the financial position – that's where it happened – to give 1 million. In addition to the government's proposals to Oslo Cathedral. The Oslo bench often meets with the Oslo Cathedral, with the Domprosty and with the Oslo Council of Bishops. That's what we've had this fall, too. Oslo Cathedral has a very special place in the Norwegian Church. The cathedral still has the central functions of the Church, whether it be the ten-year service of the Crown Prince Couple, the worship of the Stortinget or, for that matter, the anniversary service of the University's theological faculty. But the Cathedral has also increasingly engaged in multicultural and multireligious issues and has been good at connecting both to Christians outside the Church and to other religions. A total of 108,734 persons in Oslo are members of religious communities and life views outside the Norwegian Church. Of these, 40,000 are Christians — that is, outside the State Church — and 44,000 are Muslims. Among the Christian non-governmental churches there are a lot of immigrant communities. The cathedral has in an incredibly fine way managed to achieve this ecumenical and multireligious cooperation. Then it's like Oslo Cathedral not only takes care of an increasing membership in the Judiciary, it keeps people moving in here. Oslo Cathedral is today a prominent cultural intermediary and should perhaps also have had grants for the cultural budget. It's an impressive program The Cathedral only has this autumn – it's just going through the program – with concerts and other cultural events of very high quality. Here, Norway's leading musicians and singers perform. Nevertheless, this year it is the Cathedral's way of dealing with July 22nd and the following weeks that is best remembered – the day the asymmetrical threats suddenly became brutal reality when a right-wing extremist killer killed our political youth and tried to put our political regime out of play. 77 people were killed. Many were injured. Oslo Cathedral's unselfish and expedient work will give history the Cathedral credit for. Oslo Cathedral became the rock, also in international media. When we know how many volunteers from the congregation were standing on the day after day, week after week, we can only say thank you. And they deserve this million.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2134	Some speakers have driven by a little selective quoting and rewriting of quotes, and then attacking the same ones. The freshest example was well from the representative Tor Bremer, who absolutely pissed heavily when he was going to try to quote the undersigned. In addition, the representative Tor Bremer claimed that Scotland is a separate country, for he cited Scotland and the United Kingdom as examples of land. It could hardly be the biggest mistake he's made in his posts here from the pulpit. I'm going back to the little confusion that it seems to be among the representatives of the government parties in terms of the bourgeois parties, the opposition's common proposal relating to the research fund, because you protest hard and say, what does it do with a research fund and 4 pst? returns – which in this case would be 4 billion. per year – if it cannot be price adjusted if it is not price adjusted? The answer to that is, of course, that price adjustment can be made on a free basis. In addition, the premise from the 2001 decision in Stortinget was that oil revenues were to be set aside in a fund where up to 4 pst could be used. real returns into the annual budgets, and priority should be given to objectives that could enhance the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Such purposes, it was said, are among other things. education, research, infrastructure investment, etc. It is not, of course, a priority that the government has followed closely. Most of this money in the annual budgets has gone for welfare purposes. Investing in growth capacity in the Norwegian economy is important. That's exactly why we choose to add a new research fund as part of the state pension fund abroad, or what people call the oil fund the most. This fund is growing, and it grows strongly every year. So the returns are also going to be in kronor increasing for each year. This means that if it is intended to have a research fund as part of this, this research fund must also increase as the overall picture increases. Finally, I have to say to the representative, Hadia Tajik, that it doesn't help to come from somewhere close to where Niels Henrik Abel came from, if you don't master the elementary percentage. Elementary percentage calculation is like this: if you take the Right plus on research that is 800 million. kr, and parts of the 25 bn. kr that is already there, you get exactly 0.03, but you don't get 0.03 pst. 0.03 in this context is 3 pst. In other words, raising the right at the top of the government proposal is 3 pst. In other words, a real increase of 3 pst. total, while the government's addition is zero in real growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2147	I'm afraid that all organizations that are involved and point out that there may be some weaknesses in the red-green sacred budget, now should notice that the government believes that their input is to talk down school and talk down research. That's how high self-image can be in a majority government. It has been said that one should try to weave a blue thread. I think: «Life is like an image of different colors for joy and striving Triste gray tones where the ground was long red and yellow for happy song Green for a hope and a dream that became true Blue for a secret sorrow and a safari» I could still and still. It's through all of these threads that we're all involved and contributing, both we who sit here in this room, and all of those who have spent time making contributions to this budget, where we build the good social fabric that gives a good society for the future. Two small extra things: one is about the gift-enhancing system. It is such that the new universities – the University of Stavanger and the University of Agder – have just been able to use this opportunity to obtain badly needed research funding. It is with sadness that I record that the government, which does not want to add increased research funds to these universities, also takes away this opportunity to be part of the research. Then there has also been talk about the Research Fund and how our design and our device should be at this level. It is as simple as that in order to have a price and salary adjusted research fund of this kind so that it will not become a static sum, more of the fund will have to be earmarked for the corresponding price and salary adjustment for each year, and this will also be borne in mind. Similarly, the opposition parties have managed to add billions to the fund we have now had along the way. We had not come as wrong as the government will, because they have not followed up in the same way as the opposition. So to fruit and green. I think the minister of knowledge was a little ignorant when she thought it was a theoretical order that the Christian People's Party wants, because it's a subscription scheme we want. My real concern is what happens the day the state stops bringing a fruit dish to the door of our young people, when they sit alone on the furniture with the Grandiosa and the cola for dinner, and there no longer comes a Kristin Halvorsen with a fruit dish and say: Be so good, here's your daily dose of fruit and green. And when we haven't taken advantage of the chance through both school and growing up time to teach them to take responsibility for the fact that fruit and vegetables belong to the daily diet, I'm worried about our young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2175	Many people have experienced the difficult economic situation in Europe. It's serious. It is clear that for Europe it is absolutely essential that research and higher education are now put into practice precisely because it is at the bad times you need to put in extra shocks in order to get out in order to remain competitive in the future. Although we haven't noticed so much of the negative times in Norway yet, we're still in the same boat as the rest of Europe, because this isn't just a wave in the economic turn. Now it is so serious that it is about the whole of Europe's position internationally. It is essential that Norway also participates in this research and higher education effort. Then it is reassuring that there is a minimal real growth in research in Norway for 2012 with what is the government budget. So if someone points out that here there are not so many big differences between government and opposition parties. But when we look at the sum of changes, that's it. The gift-enhancing system, which has gone away, is an important difference. The research fund, which is attacked by the fact that there are some weaknesses, is a significant difference. On the left, we believe that this Research Fund will provide better and increased funding for research in Norway, and is an important contribution among many others. That's 100 billion. kr in State pension funds abroad that will generate a return of 4 billion. kr. If it doesn't, and you doubt the return, it's an obligation to make sure you get 4 billion. NOK in Norwegian research. It's just in bad times you have to spend extra money. So I want to say a little bit about a trend in the last few years. I hope that you can have a positive attitude to and an extra eye on what is the interaction of state higher education institutions with what is county responsibility through secondary schools. We have a very exciting project with Oslo Cancer Cluster, which has been mentioned earlier, where you have a high school that is put straight into a research environment and a business environment. From Oslo, there is now also a desire for further cooperation with the University of Oslo by having a new secondary school, Berg secondary school, also co-located with the university in the area around which Sogn secondary school is currently located. I think there are a lot of exciting synergies here that you can get out of, and the state must be willing to get these good interaction projects with the states, so that we can strengthen higher education in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2186	The representative Hadia Tajik told a true story about Niels Henrik Abel, but got hurt to tell a false story about the Right Budget. Anyone who reads the budget will see that the Right actually has priority school. We've found room for 1/2 billion. More about continuing training of teachers, we have introduced new hours at the nursery, we have provided educational assistance at the youth level, and we have stepped up on the apprenticeship grant. But I understand that probably the representative falls heavily to the chest that the Right has a better school budget than the Government. Youth school is referred to by several as the forgotten step. That's not true. Youth was given special attention in St.meld. No 30 for 2003–2004 on the promise of knowledge. At the time, the Committee had wide-ranging joint comments on the need for the renewal of the stage, the need for empowerment for teachers and more varied and practical education. The programme was intended to provide students with a taste in upper secondary education. Does this sound familiar? Yes, too far on the way, the high school report prescribes the same medicine as the big news about the Knowledge promise did. But we have to admit that something went wrong during the implementation of the reform when we haven't got to the renewal of the youth as a total increase at that time wanted. That is why it is very wise that the government now adopts its own implementation strategy for the provision of secondary education. I hope that when we come to discuss it over New Year's, the Minister of Knowledge may say that the design of that strategy has come a long way. The new GIV measure with its own classes for the weakest students after Christmas in the 10th grade are measures to enable students to repair professional holes and pass through primary school. Now the government is challenging past efforts against apostasy. Why can't the government allow such an offer to the eighth grade students, with the same limit to six months, when it could give these students a much better start at high school with greater learning outcomes and mastering throughout high school? It must be better to prevent in grade 8 than to speed up in the last six months in grade 10. So finally, the representative Aksel Hagen may not have heard after when I kept my main post. It is a fact that the four opposition parties are united on two major priorities in the budget area we are discussing today: what is involved in research, and the second major action in the school on continuing education for teachers. I can understand that the government parties may be interested in noting that the opposition is starting to agree on the central points, but the comments in the setting speak a clear language. That's the way it is, and the representative Aksel Hagen can't explain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2200	The budget options of the Progress Party have been well presented in the past, but I would like to address some of the points that have been raised in the debate, especially when a former Minister of Finance, the current Minister of Knowledge, talks about this budget being tight, and uses it as an excuse that she has not prioritised better. Well, it's kind of tight for the Ministry of Knowledge and for Norwegian research, it's pretty obvious. But that's not because the budget as a whole is tight. Minister of Finance Johnsen admitted to today's economy on 6 October that this budget should be characterised as 'neutral' – something quite different than strict. This means that it is the Minister of Knowledge who has not done a good enough job within the government in prioritising knowledge and research — that does not mean that there is a total lack of money to be able to invest more in it. This is precisely why the Progress Party and the other opposition parties are able to prioritise knowledge and research better than the government has done. She's hiding behind the rhetoric about a tight budget -- it wasn't the finance minister himself that characterized the budget. A former finance minister should be honest about that. So the representative Håheim said that we have luck born in Norway, but it's not funny that we've been through the financial crisis – it was obviously just about politics. I disagree a little. In fact, a common growth has been behind many good things in terms of financial crisis packages and other things, but it is not by chance that we have a fairly good economy compared to other countries when we have an oil sector that will invest 175 billion next year. Norwegian capital – in addition to operating costs – while for example: last year under the Bondevik government had investments in the same sector of about 60 billion. kr. So it was almost three times higher nominal expenditure seven years later. It's an important impulse. It is not only the Progress Party that says it – it also says the Statistical Central Bureau in its report in the magazine Economic Analysis No. 3/2010. I guess people who participate in a research debate are also aware of such things. Oil investments on Norwegian soil and a generally good financial crisis policy that Stortinget has been behind – including the opposition – have led to 345 billion next year. kr in profit. So we have a room for action in Norway that is enormously good. In addition, when we see that the 2011 budget balance gives us total revenue of 116 billion. kr higher than what we thought – 60 billion. kr goes right to the oil fund, correct – we have over 50 billion. kr that could have been used in the State budget. Then it's also a little about the political will to be able to do these things. The reward from the government to the petroleum industry for the enormous effort they make is to cut petroleum-related research during the red-green government period. And that's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2211	As a child, author Arnulf Upperland was very happy to dream away. He used to dream about things he couldn't get, and things he wanted out of life. He began to take an early interest in literature and lyricism, and already as a child he began to write poems. When little Arnulf was a little over six years old, he started school. He liked himself badly there and lost his cheerfulness and his dreams, and he left school after five years. In 1907 Arnulf Upperland still took a degree in artium, and he began at the university to study philology. His plan was to become a lecturer. The rest of the story is known. We're different, and we have different dreams about what we want life to offer us. The little schoolboy might as well have wanted to be a mechanic, a carpenter or something else. The dream is there, but there is still a long way to go for all children and young people to feel that they are being offered a teaching program that they master. At the University of Hedmark, there is an exciting research environment around Professor Thomas Nordahl. They revealed a few years ago that: 70 pst. of the pupils receiving special education in primary school, boys are approx. 75 pst. by students in their own pedagogical offerings at full or part time in Norwegian primary school were at the time boys were far more diagnosed and defined as problematic in relation to both learning and behaviour than girls It was pointed out that possible explanations may lie in the organisation, content and working methods of school. We could have just gotten a better school for girls than for boys. One possible explanation may also be that the culture of boys and men is low in knowledge and education. It can be socially risky for some boys to be good at school. Is the gender difference already established when the students start school, or is it such that the school develops and reinforces the differences between boys and girls? Send the money to our department, and we'll sort everything out,' said Councillor Kristin Halvorsen in one of his posts today. In the right hand side, I guess we're not quite sure about that. But we can give you a few tips on what the Council of State, among other things. can use the money for: there is a great need for research into why we have so many gender differences in primary school. Furthermore, systematic development work at school should be undertaken in order to reduce these gender differences. If the Council of State does not listen to our advice, we will of course take them with us into our next election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2236	Perhaps the representative of Solvik-Olsen should also read the history of the Progress Party in the field of the oil economy. The question is, where would we be today if we had followed the advice of the former Chairman of the Advancement Party, Carl I. Hagen, about what he wanted to do with our oil fortune? The reason why I take the floor is the representative Aspaker's previous posts here in the Chamber today. She claimed that teacher density is not important and that the Right Solution is to make the profession attractive to young people. As a former teacher, do I think that if you graduate school for teachers, does the profession become attractive? I don't think so. I think it's going to be very, very, very attractive. I think there are very few people who want to be teachers if we follow the Right Cheap School recipe. But I understand the issue. Our experience shows that last time there was a lot of tax cuts and cuts in transfers to the municipalities, and then there was not much money left for the school. Then there was not so much money left to bet on teachers at primary school in the municipalities. So wise of harm is it's probably that the Right doesn't want a standard of teacher's density in school. But I think a person does himself a great bear service if you think that youth wants to apply to the teaching profession, if a school is for teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2243	The Ministry of Knowledge and Research is an important premiscuous provider on language policy issues, and there are two issues I would like to address. The first is Scandinavian in school. It is a rather boring topic in the light of the studies conducted by the Directorate of Education, which shows that the teaching in Scandinavian is ignored by teachers at school as well as in teacher training. This is well known. The question is, what do you do to make it better? There has been a Nordic language campaign this year that has gone on, where there have been many interesting issues, including: has been working on educational arrangements, or educational arrangements related to digital offers and interactivity in a different way from what we have seen before. I hope that the Council of States – when we go into a year when Norway has the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, and where we should show stronger initiatives on Nordic issues – will focus on the new things that have come, and that Scandinavian themes will be brought into school in a more offensive way than we have seen so far. It is important for young people to understand that having an understanding knowledge of Swedish and Danish opens up many opportunities, including: it provides opportunities to study in the other Nordic countries. It brings me to the second theme that I also want to address. It is about the availability of higher education textbooks in Norwegian/Scandinavian. There we see a development where English is about to take over completely. Most universities — I think there are three universities in Norway — have followed the call to have a strategy for language work. They assume that there should be Norwegian language textbooks at the bachelor's level, but that at the master's level, mainly English is okay. I support that. Then it is all the more important that we take care of the language domains affected by the subjects at the bachelor level. That's important, because the learning outcomes for the students, after studies we've seen, are 25 pst. lower in English than in Norwegian. We also see that the drop-out in higher education is also linked to the availability of Norwegian language textbooks. There is a need here for an instrument. So far, the government has signaled nothing more than that one wants to liquidate the fixed price of the textbooks. Perhaps a better system of translation grants should also be considered and the fixed price assessed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2258	First, very briefly to the Olemic Thommess: the Minister of Culture and I have jointly set up the theme of the situation of the Scandinavian languages, at the next meeting of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Here we have had an interesting debate about many and many, but first of all about a few things that I'm going to come back to in this post. The four opposition parties have focused their efforts on research and higher education. It's good and good and isolated seen very happy. It is also an important area for the government, of course. I want to stress that while the red-greens have ruled, there has never been a real decline in the total research appropriations. The last time it happened was in 2003. What is the problem is the opposition's proposal for both what they are together about and what they disagree about. They have very different containment proposals, and on the debate that is now, it seems that they are also not entirely in agreement with what they actually present as a consensus. The opposition has used strong words about the differences between its own research efforts and government efforts. While the Right criticises the government for not having created completely new study places, I don't see anything in the Right Budget either. The difference between government and the most expansive opposition party, Left, in terms of research's share of gross domestic product, is 0.04 pst. So there is no significant challenge to government policy. But finally two crosshairs. You've spent most of your time here discussing 60 million. kr, the gift enhancement scheme, by a research budget of 25.5 billion. kr. What we are talking about is not a ban on giving – no one has suggested – but that the additional incentives are not continued. In the debate, we have presented many good suggestions both on how business itself should research more, and on how to inspire the rich people of business to give money to research. I hope they're still going to do that. The second crossroads of thought is the history of a system that no longer works, namely the Research Fund, which accounts for approx. 17 pst. of the total research budget. Here the government has been concerned about how we ensure basic long-term research, and how we secure an infrastructure. The best way to do that is to get it into fixed entries in the state budget. Then we get both a price and a pay adjustment and a firmness in this. No matter how you turn and turn on the many curvatures of the opposition to explain what they really mean, there must be debates and appropriations in the Stortinget. Either you take 4 pst. of 100 billion kr, or if you do this in other ways, with price and pay adjustment, which seems very confusing, you can't escape a decision in Stortinget. And that's what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2280	Aksel Hagen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2283	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker says that there are two main priorities that the opposition has gathered on. First, continuing education: Yes, first, there is a common general note on some lines. Then there is a need for the four to slip into three separate remarks, one from the Advancement Party, one from the Right and one from the Left and the Christian People's Party together. One starts very well together, and then there are three notes that are quite different from each other. Secondly, research funds: there are no comments. There is a clear and common text. But in the debate here today, Henning Warloe has said that one can choose to adjust prices and costs. Dagrun Eriksen has said that this is almost meant to be automatic. Elisabeth Aspaker says initially today that here you have to look at the totality of the budget, and then you see what you're doing out of it. This just shows our point: this needs to be politicised, it needs to be included in the state budget. There is no more automatic or robustness in this than in other budget appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2294	Mr Bremer has spoken twice earlier in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2297	Of course, the representative of Warloe is quite right in that Scotland is not a land of its own. It's just supposed to be missing! He's related to Scotland, so he can do this. But it doesn't sound like the same Warloe has come to realize that Scotland has a responsibility and a budgetary responsibility in education. I also learned that the good representative held a little math class from the pulpit that their proposals for a new research fund would ensure both long-termity, adjustment for price and wage growth and real growth in the rewards. The lecture didn't impress me, and I don't think so many others were overestimated that this is the case with the fund. To put it this way: his installation reminded me more about good that had expected him to be older than his own father.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2306	It was referred from the representative, Hagen, to the fact that the opposition parties had started with a great degree of assembly, and then there was more crack. Now we have experienced six years of a red-green government cooperation, and there was something familiar with that description – without me going into it. I would also like to mention in the introduction that the matter raised by the representative Olemic Thommes about Scandinavian language cooperation, and which was also commented on by the Council of State, is a very important matter which also concerns the Christian People's Party. I want to focus on what is a relatively small proportion of the budget here, but which is nevertheless of great importance. The cultural schools are in all communities, in all municipalities throughout the country, an important arena for the exercise of art, culture and personal development by individuals. It is stated in the Cultural Promise II: ‘A cultural school promise shall be made so that all children wishing to receive a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price.’ There is a lot of excitement in the Cultural Lift II, and a lot of good policy has been implemented in the wake of the Cultural Lift II. It must be commended by the Government, and substantial funds have also been made available to implement the various points of the Cultural Promise II. In fact, billions have come over several years. Then what I'm asking myself is, why in the world is it that the point of the cultural promise that is about children and young people themselves having the opportunity to practice art and culture, to evolve as practitioners of art and culture, has one almost overlooked? It's a strange priority once you've put on the table a big commitment to culture. The Christian People's Party has therefore shown in its budget, as it is clear from the proposals we have, that it is possible to put in place a commitment in the cultural schools. We have almost doubled the efforts of the government in the cultural schools, and we have also presented a proposal for a representative to show that this should be part of an escalation, a goal-conscious, obliging escalation, which means that the cultural schools, which are perhaps one of the most important things we have in cultural policy, actually become a real commitment to it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2322	As for Scotland, I think the representatives of Warloe and Bremer have messed it up a little bit. But we have been promised an explanation by historian Lien later in the debate. [[muttering in the hall]] In terms of arithmetic, Henning Warloe was also up on the pulpit and made himself very tall and dark at the expense of Hadia Tajik. But it's very little use then to come up with a little white lie, because when you kind of demand basic math skills, it's also important that you have it yourself. The representative of Hadia Tajik said that the difference in R & D budget and the government was at 0.03 percentage points, which is something quite different than a percentage. Then we assume in the debate that Warloe is listening and dealing with the mathematical concepts that are mentioned from the pulpit. Otherwise, the opposition has doubts about the government's description of reality. They are talking about a fantastic research effort in Europe, while the time again and again from this pulpit has been rejected; it is the opposite that happens. Norway is actually one of five countries that don't cut. We've also heard an opposition that wants to appear to be very agreeable. Tord Lien says that the Progress Party is the best climate party, while they cut. Left plus. It's separating a total of 600 million. kr between lots. The Progress Party finances a lot of its investment with cut in aid. The Christian People's Party is adding to the aid. That separates 7.6 billion. kr between lots. I do not know how it is in the government negotiations, whether the Christian People's Party might think it is all right to age the budgets that way. The Right Party and the Advance Party cut in the study federations, while the Christian People's Party and the Left Party add. Is it so that in a way we should only find a kind of least common multiple for the bourgeois parties, count ourselves to who is not bourgeois – some of them are not bourgeois, one of them is Christian-democratic – and find out what is the truth about politics? I think it would be an advantage if they themselves could help clarify it. We also see some of the same in the debates that are taking place in the media. On the right, the government's proposal for high school education was an unfinished product. Tord Lien thought that it was basically good suggestions, and wanted to work with them further. So there's an opposition that cracks in every direction of school policy. It's hard to deal with. I wish that in this debate we had come a little closer to seeing what the policy really was about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2336	The president learns how to get rid of the representatives. The representatives on their side can learn to stay on the right side of the line – ‘white lie’ had not been used in my speech. The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2341	I just have to get some clarifications here, because I actually don't understand this completely. First I'll just say with regard to Scotland that I have a daughter who is studying there. If you have any questions, please contact her. In the case of Warloe, I wonder if he can clarify how he can guarantee 4 pst. the return on a fund, regardless of the amount of the return. Whether you want to or not, this will swing – up or down. I realized to the representative Dagrun Eriksen that she thought we should earmark the return. But this is unclear to me. Then I just have to comment on the representative Dagrun Eriksen with regard to fruit and greenery. I think it's very sad that the Christian People's Party chooses to remove the fruit-and-green scheme in high school because we're not going to eat fruit and green afterwards. It's kind of going to make us replace apples with bugs. I really don't like it. Then to the representative Aspaker: 500 million. more for teacher training, 500 less for the county – that's where the follow-up service is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2354	It was the representative of the Ruits who made me speak. One should be able to his own story a little bit better before one starts squeezing at others. We should remember that former Prime Minister Odvar Nordli wanted to exchange oil shares, ownership of oil assets, for Volvo shares. It would be one of the worst trades I know. What was Anders Lange's point in 1976 was that the Statfjord investment would mean so much in debt absorption for AS Norway that one thought that one should get more private capital in there. That doesn't mean one said no to the tax law you had. But Carl I. Hagen has said that he is pleased that he was wrong about the 1976 decision. I hope the Workers' Party also says they are happy that they were wrong when they wanted to exchange oil for Volvo ownership in 1979. Then I react a little to the fact that the government parties instead of dealing with the proposals that the opposition is promoting individually or collectively, only relate to the fact that when the opposition does not agree on all points, one almost does not want to discuss the content. The red-green parties did not promote a common government budget at all points when they themselves were in opposition. They barely did it the last year before the 2005 elections. It's also worth noting that when the difference between the opposition's research budget and the government's research budget is only on some prom, it's too little for you to care. But in the finance debate, the government parties themselves made a very big fuss that they moved in the total of 30 million. kr, which is 0.003 pst. by the expenditure side of the State budget. One should hold his tongue right in his mouth about when things are big and when things are small. In the case of research, government parties have difficulty understanding that one can say that one expects 4 pst. the return on a research fund, because it is not certain that the return will be that way. No, that's absolutely right. But that's exactly the same principle we use with regard to the oil fund. On average, a 4 pst is expected. Why is it possible to have that principle with regard to the oil fund, but not with regard to a share of the oil fund, 200 billion? kr, which is therefore earmarked for research? The government parties have an explanation problem here. Then the Minister of Research is unable to fully understand that the gift-enhancing scheme becomes such an important topic. No, 60 million. kr from or to is not the maximum amount. But in a budget where one has 345 billion. kr in profit, is not 60 million. kr so very much as seen, rather. What is the point here is that once again the government shows that they do not take private business and private donors seriously. In the same way that small power investors, wind power investors, biodiesel investors, eco-fiction investors have believed in framework conditions provided by a government, we also see that those who started to make research contributions are also tricked when they are ready to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2369	The representative Svein Harberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2372	I was suddenly afraid that the Council of State and the State Secretary would misunderstand me and believe that I had put down the sword in the financing of vocational schools that are not owned and operated by the county councils, so I would just point out to the Right and the opposition's clear call to take the financing of these back to the state. This is not an ideologically justified proposal, but a result of the discrimination and unpredictability of these schools today. The previous 6A schools are now funded by the state. I hope the Council of State cleans up in terms of the others. Two brief comments: It sounds a little strange when Truls Wickholm talks about consensus and disagreement. Furthermore, to Freddy de Ruiter: I think I must resort to Peer Gynt after his post: «Where the starting point is craziest, time is the original result.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2383	The representative, Hennig Warloe, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2386	1 minute goes by fast, so I'll try to do it quickly. It is such that the difference between the research budgets of the opposition parties and those of the government is not pro-mills. Let me fix it once again. If you say that the increase is 0.03 pst, while it's actually 3 pst. So you have – let's say – bombed a hundred times. 3 pst. is 100 times as much as 0.03 pst. Unfortunately, the percentage and percentage points in this context are irrelevant. The detailed explanation of this can, of course, be found at the end of the Committee's Christmas. I feel that we may have got there in the debate that the rest of it is suitable for completion in such a more informal setting. It is therefore true that we strongly advocate knowledge and research – all opposition parties, all civil parties. There must be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2395	I think it's gone up both for the president and for me that the committee has decided that mathematics is going to be a horizontal topic in the debate, but leave it. It is true, as Mr Solvik-Olsen has said, that this is not a tight budget in an economic sense. It's kind of a neutral budget, it's on page 8 of the government budget. But it is felt more stringent than usual for the Committee, even though there is real growth in the Ministry of Knowledge's budget. So I can't push myself to do this exercise that's about: how does a finance minister fool in 12ths? That is what has shaped the debate today on the Research Fund. Let me say it like this: it's not possible. It's not that it's possible to lock in a few billions and say: we've now secured this in such a good way that there won't be anyone who will ever think of throwing himself over them. It's a structure that the opposition is testing for a so-called research fund. However, in today's debate it has been revealed that it must be filled if the yield is to be adjusted, and that requires a political decision. The rate of return shall be calculated as the yield of the Petroleum Fund. It's an estimated return of 4 pst. which should be used less in good times and more in bad times, but so that there will be about 4 pst over time. That's how the rule of action works. Therefore, this structure, which the opposition is trying to do with the Research Fund, is an exercise that at any time means that if there is no political will in this Chamber to keep a high level of the Research Fund, there is nothing that can stand against it. There is one thing that can ensure research in the future, and it is political will to prioritise research — in the fight for everything else. It is not possible to lock it in. In addition, what has now been the return of a research fund is about. 16 pst. by the research budget. So if the Storting wanted to reduce the research appropriations, you could just go to another part of what was for research. There's only one thing that's going on, and that's making sure that there's a generous grant of money for research on all government budgets. We have. There has been real growth on all state budgets. We have to go back to 2003 to find a decline in the research appropriations, and it was the previous government that was responsible for – and of course not the representative Tord Lien, whom I now see delight in getting the word after me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2408	The Council of State is quite right: this president has never learned so much about mathematics, history and church ethics during the same debate – but that is the Ministry of Knowledge budget we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2411	I will take on – if I am allowed – to teach the President and some other representatives a little about constitutional matters in Europe, right away. Scotland, of course, is a country of its own. I hope the Minister for the Environment in Scotland, with whom I know our own Minister for Fisheries has a good relationship, does not read the record of this debate. We have to do what we can to avoid that. I'm going to start by boasting of Aasland State Council. At one point, something fundamentally right has been done in this year's budget, namely the increase in free resources. There is a clear strengthening of the national competitive arenas. I hope that what we see here now is a trend, and that we move more to creating national competitive venues and end up believing that the knowledge challenge facing Norway in the future can be solved through regional circuit championships and narrow, disciplinary programmes. It has been the trend, unfortunately, even under this government, but to a lesser extent – fortunately – until next year. Then I have noticed that there are many who are concerned about civil cooperation, first and foremost from the left. That's good. I can guarantee here and now that apples and bananas are not going to overthrow a non-socialist government in 2013. So it's kind of funny that someone says that the opposition really agrees with the government. Several of the red-green politicians today have said that the opposition really agrees with the government. So the other half of the red-green politicians say there's a full split on the right-hand side. On the one hand, how can we really agree with the government on most things, and on the other hand, it's full split – on the right hand side? I'm, as you know, a humanist, but this calculation I'm not going to get up -- that might be why. Truls Wickholm said something wise, I was going to say, for once – but it might not be true. He said that Norwegian wealth and well-being are not based on chance. No, it's not, it's what's so right -- it's a commitment to real-time research, education, competence, building up national schools in the 1800s, research on how to tame nature, hydropower production in the 1800s, the industrialisation of Norway in the 1950s and the petroleum success. This is based on the fact that a majority of this room has the courage to invest in research and education. So it's not students who create values – as the representative Bremer apparently believes – it's graduates of technologists, engineers, biologists, chemists and physicists who create the values of society. Unfortunately, we have seen that it has become fewer in the last five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2424	The representative, Truls Wickholm, has spoken twice in the past and is given a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2428	We can take the rest on the Christmas table, but I thought I'd just read it – about what things mean: ‘The percentage point or percentage point is used to indicate the absolute change between two percentage points. For example, a change from 16 per cent to 20 per cent is an increase of 4 percentage points.» It's very important to deal with the right concepts when criticizing the opponent. You can use your own concepts of your own numbers, but you have to use the right concepts to criticise your opponent – then we'll take the rest of the committee. Finally, I just want to thank you for what I think has been a good and polite debate in many areas. We're able to disagree in this committee, but we're in a good mood. The problem with the opposition is that it agrees with the government, but it is in different areas. So they're going to disagree with themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2442	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2445	So in good times, Norway has squandered the possibility of a real boost in knowledge and research. I understand that there is a government fighting for its research policy legacy, which is now trying to question the extent to which the opposition actually has greater ambitions than the government in the field of research. When I have listened to the financial debate and to this debate, there can be no doubt about that. It would have clothed the knowledge nation of Norway if we had in good time taken the advice to prioritize knowledge and research far higher than we have done, but milk has been spilled. We're concerned with prioritizing this field, and we have to do more of what works. To the representative Freddy de Ruiter, I would say: it is in a way the great school research guru John Hattie who has said that it is not found to support the fact that more teachers are more important than better teachers. And no one has suggested emptying Norwegian school for teachers. Actually, I thought the representative Freddy de Ruiter understood that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2454	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2457	In the case of Norwegian school, I choose to deal with those who wear the shoe. Neither Ibsen quotes nor anything else can make me change that position. Then I think, "Who's going to ask?" Well, you can ask the Parental Committee for Primary School, you can ask the Student Organisation, you can ask the Educational Association or the National Association of Schools. Then you can ask them, what do you mean? Do you think there should be some kind of teacher density or some regulation on it, a certain number of teachers in school? Or do you agree with the Right, who believes that teacher density has nothing to say for the quality of school? I just leave the questions behind, and someone can try to ask the questions of those who wear their shoes, and those who live in school every day. Otherwise, I do not agree with the history of the representative of Solvik-Olsen. Well, we've actually done the exact same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2466	The representative Tord Lien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2469	I started this day by saying that I didn't know what caused the gift-enhancing system to disappear, and I referred to the state secretary Kyrre Lekve on Monday thinking that it was problematic that private donors were governing public tax money. No one has used it today. On the other hand, the representative Tingelstad Wøien has said that the scheme is good and comes back when we are going to examine the research report. Tora Aasland has said the system is too expensive. And Hadia Tajik has said the system is not working. So we're essentially the same in the blue that we've been. Then I'll end up with an anecdote. The President – it was President Højbrätten – said that time is running just as fast for everyone. It had passed in many other committees, but it should not pass during the proceedings of the KUF Committee, for it is in fact that Einstein has established that time is going faster on earth than in space. Thank you for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2478	The representative of Håheim referred in his article to the wording: after a brief joy comes the sour pang. First, I have to admit that that saying often raises associations to things other than breaking the rule of action. But I'm going to leave that right now. What's important here is to distinguish between operation and investment. When it comes to spending more money than the government, we do, because we invest in future value creation just by investing in education. I can't let go of commenting on any of what Freddy de Ruiter's representative is coming into his posts. I have to admit that I am a little surprised at the school debate underlying very much of the argument he uses against the Progress Party, the Right and the other opposition parties' school policies. First, he assumes that the right-hand side will only privatize, privatize, privatize. It is obvious that the representative de Ruiter has not seen the difference between privatizing and postponing competition, which is actually a very important point to bring with him. At the same time, he's very concerned about more teachers, and you have to ask those who have their shoes on, what they want, and whether there are more teachers. What we've done is just talking to the student organisation and talking to the students. What they're busy about are better teachers, not more. We're not going to school for teachers. We just want our budget, which certainly de Ruiter has seen when he read our budget, to strengthen further education and training for teachers considerably. We in the Progress Party want a hospitation scheme for programme teachers, so they can evolve, and stimulate more people to become teachers. That's the quality of the teachers that's important, not the quantity, and that's what we're using in our budget. I would like to conclude by saying that the system of fruit and greenery is important, and I think it is a bit of a shame that the Christian People's Party is not involved. But I share with the representative Dagrun Eriksen's concern about the bad dietary habits that are coming. At the same time, she must be careful to use Grandiosa as an example. Because we see that pizza is now classified as a vegetable in the United States, it has even got the keyhole system here in Norway. So you shouldn't ignore that in a couple of years it's part of the fruit basket, too. We in the Progress Party want to have fruit and green in school, while at the same time giving good advice in terms of diet habits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2491	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2494	Two points: one is that research and knowledge is one of the main priorities of the Progress Party in our alternative budget. That is why we are getting very involved in this debate, because it is important for the Progress Party. So the Minister of Knowledge says that the committee is probably experiencing the budget as tight. It says a little about who has been bad at negotiating internally in the government, when the budget as a whole is perceived as being neutral. So this committee is the victim of bad priorities in a relatively good budget for the rest. Then to the Research Fund. It's used as an argument that we can't adopt 4 pst. the return on investment. That's absolutely right. But it is a little strange that, precisely in the debate on the Research Fund, it is used as an argument for the removal of the Fund, while the Energy and Environment Committee will argue strongly for an energy fund to invest in renewable energy and energy saving, which Enova will have to dispose of. Then suddenly a fund solution is very good, because it ensures predictability. But when someone doesn't want the Research Fund, another argument is used to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2504	It is absolutely right that when there is a financial debate, and when economists discuss budgets, they talk about a neutral, an expansive or tight budget, and everyone knows what it is. When you're dealing with knowledge or some other area, and you're used to having budgets that's really grown every year, and it's a little bit tighter, in the public sense, it means that it feels like you have a less frame than you've had before for distribution. That's it. I'm very sorry if I insult Solvik-Olsen to talk a little bit in private. I guarantee that four years in the Ministry of Finance will make it necessary to breathe a little occasionally! Then to the Research Fund. The research fund design that Jon Lilletun started, and that we've filled, and been for everyone for a long time, was moving up in terms of getting up the appropriations for research. But because it's designed the way it is, and new deposits have lower interest rates than the deposits that are due, it's going to be a bloodshed around your legs compared to that, because over the budgets you have to start with big appropriations just to get up where you were. So this is a very good solution. Now it's in the budget, now it's being priced. It gives a good starting point, and then the Stortinge can discuss what ambitions you should have in research, just as you can discuss in all areas. It is quite right that the fund linked to Enova has been an important way of ensuring that it has been a field of activity, but it may also be time for that fund structure, that it might be right to think differently. It's great that there's a little bit of a high temperature in some areas of knowledge policy, but we can, of course, flip a little round into what we agree on as well. There is agreement on significant parts in the field of knowledge, and we should not be sorry for that, because there are so many people operating in these areas every single day. There are 1 million young people in Norway who are affected by kindergarten and school, there are a lot of parents and people working with them, and predictability for them serves to ensure that there is agreement on a certain core. So just a little hint of fruit and green eventually. I just have to say that this must be the opposition's contribution to the low carbo debate. When even the Christian People's Party is going to have it to tell the students that fruit and green are healthy, but it's important that it starts with taking it away from them, then it becomes a little bit difficult. So if the youth is going to sit on the front shelf, it's probably with bottled pieces and a small butter cup, after serving from the Christian People's Party! I think it's petty.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2516	Dagrun Eriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2519	I record that the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen loves to tour both other budgets and other government departments during this debate. Let me conclude in relation to this with fruit and green: there can be no doubt that the Christian People's Party's commitment to fruit and green in this budget is far higher than that of the government. We are in favour of halving VAT on fruit and vegetables, and it will benefit the entire population. It is about – and it is a rather serious matter – that we should not leave it to the state to serve food and food, and thus we never teach our children and young people to get their own dietary habits around this. We're setting up a subscription scheme. So by the state council trying to make this as a theoretical fruit-and-green scheme, it's wrong. We're going to bring many more bananas and apples out to the people than the government is doing with this state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2524	Since we're so concerned about learning in other areas when we're discussing knowledge, let's also get a little debated at the end of this discussion. If you reduce VAT or halve VAT on fruit and vegetables, you have no guarantee that it will benefit consumers. Past experience from major changes in VAT has shown that there are some intermediates that earn that money, and the food chains are clear, and they have great power in Norway. Ergo, unless you propose any more instruments, you have no guarantee of this. That it makes sense that healthy food is getting cheaper and unhealthy food is becoming more expensive is something else, but it's a little demanding to find the right way to do it. So just a few comments. I am absolutely sure that when we see the health impact of how sedentary childhood and youth have become too many, and the health impact of the one-sided diet many have, we will be able to save enormously on health problems, on quality of life, but also on the future of government budgets with preventive work and with good habits. There I really thought that the Christian People's Party, SV and the government parties thought equally, because we tend to have a slightly wider input into the discussion about what it is, for example. is to make sure that we get a good learning outcome. Eating healthy and training provides a good learning outcomes. But now I have no intention of polishing anything more particularly with the Christian People's Party on this – I want the representative Dagrun Eriksen and the others from the Christian People's Party to have a really peaceful Christmas. And it is always so that the sense of healthy diet is greater in January than in December!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2531	Tomorrow, the government is presenting its biotechnology strategy, and I am convinced that the research to which it is inspired will be stimulating for both the Council of State Berg-Hansen has talked about marine research and research on the health of the sea, and the research we need to know even more about what should be healthy diet. Two very brief comments at the end: with regard to the research fund thinking – or the design we have to secure funds for long-term, basic research – it is beyond doubt that there is the return, i.e. the bottom line, which is the important thing. That's the number of dollars and cents that we get to be able to use for long-term, basic research and infrastructure. That's what's crucial. So you could have a little bit of strange constructions, which we've heard a lot about here. A direct answer to Solvik-Olsen’s question that the fund idea can be straightforward sometimes, and not straightforward sometimes: it is the special design — with interest rates over ten years, and thus shifting interest rates to a completely different level — which is one of the important reasons why something had to be done. Solvik-Olsen has probably also noticed that we have not proposed changing the structure of regional research funds, because there is the interest calculation of a completely different, and newer, character. The main point of the whole conversion is to secure the long-term basic research – not to create a structure that has embedded weaknesses, but to make it as secure as possible, and to trust that both from the government parties and the opposition we still have the will to research, and thus to give priority to the efforts we have in this budget for next year, and that we will have in the years to come. I'm lifted by the debate. I know that there are many here who want us to bet on both research and higher education, and who have made many good arguments for it. That's the government's will, too. So I also thank you for the debate and for all the recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2544	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Five to eight are dealt with together – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 1362]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2595	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 5-8. [[Votation, see pages 1371 and 1373]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2611	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2627	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2644	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2660	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2676	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2692	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e2700	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3284	Section 9-1, first paragraph, the member of the Presidency Akhtar Chaudhry has put forward the following proposals: ‘In the Act on a pension scheme for depositors and government members, the first paragraph of Section 9-1 shall be replaced by the following: The Act enters into force on 1 October 2009.’ [[burden and government pension law]] An alternative is to vote between the presidency's position and this proposal. SV is expected to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3305	It is then voted on Section 9-2. Member of the Presidency Akhtar Chaudhry has announced that SV wants to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3319	It is votered over other chapters and paragraphs in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3329	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3339	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3500	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3510	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3672	The fifth paragraph of Section 4 of Section II and III of the adjustment is first contested. Member of the Presidency Akhtar Chaudhry has announced that SV wants to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3687	The other paragraphs of I, II and IV shall then be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3701	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 7, by Tord Lien, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, proposals No. 8-10, by Mr Tord Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 11, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with its own case to extend the study aid to 11 months from the autumn of 2012.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3731	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8 to 10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the UK Government to file a case for strengthening the right of parents to choose school for their children through free choice of school at primary school.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer the matter to the Grand Duchy for the introduction of grades from the 5th stage of primary school and the quality of order and behaviour from the 3rd stage of primary school.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a new law which gives teachers the right and obligation to continue training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3758	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess changes in the student support system of private institutions so that a greater part of the additional loan for tuition fees can be converted into scholarships if the examination is passed within a normal time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e3773	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the credit system for audiobooks in order to ensure its proper functioning and the availability of audiobooks for students who need it’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government, in consultation with the institutions, is asked to find a reasonable framework for grants to private universities for the establishment of new places of study and grants for infrastructure in private colleges.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to define Bodø as a press area in the cost framework calculation for student housing, at the latest in the revised national budget for 2012, and also to follow up the issue by developing new rules and rates to safeguard the real situation in the construction market.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review the funding system for the vocational schools and come back to Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget, to assess in detail whether the grant is per. square metres for private church buildings take sufficient account of the increase in construction costs in recent years.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive plan for State measures to ensure the fire and burglary of peaceful and protective churches in the context of the revised national budget for 2012. The plan should describe the main challenges in the field, review existing legislation and contain proposals for appropriate State action.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e7780	The President has understood that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e9032	With regard to the matters that now follow, as from case No. 9 even case No. 14, they're all second time dealing with the law. Since there are no comments on any of the legislative acts, the President suggests that we treat them together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no proposals for comments on any of the legislative acts. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-08.ana.ud997e9048	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed.
