ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e29	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.O. Kjell Bohlin is dead, 83 years old. The local and regional politician, the national politician, the internationalist, the journalist and author Kjell Bohlin are gone. He represented Telemark and the Workers' Party for three periods at Stortinget, from 1977 to 1989. He spent most of his time in the social committee. In his last period, he was president of Lagginget. He was a delegate to the United Nations, a member of the Great Britain delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and a vice-president of the Stortinget Group of the Interparliamentary Union. These tasks, of course, resulted in some travel for Bohlin. However, he was very pleased with the Storting and the debates here. He expressed himself as a debateable politician with a burning commitment to social policy and, in particular, to the weakest in society. Kjell Bohlin believed that Storting's main committee was the then social committee, a committee he thought should be compulsory for everyone on the Stortinget. Kjell Bohlin also had another page: Through several book releases he showed how he looked at the cheerful aspects of life. He was also a treasured employee in Telemark Arbeiderblad for many years. He was the Vice-President and rapporteur in Bamble for many years, he was the county food rapporteur in Telemark. In 1989 he took over Telemark as governor, a role he had until 1998. As a pensioner, he immediately engaged in municipal policy in Bamble and in the Telemark Workers' Party. As late as April 27 this year, he participated with the Health and Care Committee in the municipality of Bamble on an inspection at Bamble Hospital. Kjell Bohlin was a politician of all his beings; reflective, communicating and clear in his language and his conduct. There is great respect for his efforts. He dedicated his entire life and over 50 of his active years to the service of society and social democratic values. Kjell Bohlin was happy and proud of the working culture. By the end of Kjell Bohlin, we have lost a powerful voice and a beating heart. We bring peace to Kjell Bohlin's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e55	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e58	On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I have the honour of promoting a proposal for a representative on the action plan to combat suicide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e63	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e80	The world is free of everyone, we sang when we played as a child and were going to creep into someone who would be at peace with us. The lake is open to everyone. It is good and in line with the Labour Party's policy. Maritime life has been important for the Nordics in impenetrable times, and maritime travel has helped to create our national identity. We're a maritime nation. My family, on the one hand, is a maritime family. Grandpa, grandfather and four brothers to my grandmother were all sailors. The dead kids at sea, all as close as one. Good seamanship wasn't always enough. War and storm killed people. People have infinitely nourished themselves with seafood and gone fishing. All around the coast there are bautas over the fallen seamen and those who remained. So we have a long and profound connection to sea and sea life. I have been looking for how many laws and regulations regulate shipping today. I can just say that there are an incredible number. For example, the Directorate for Maritime Affairs has: link to more than 100 regulations, so I have stopped counting. But it's not that important. The important thing is whether we need more laws, or whether we need to adapt the existing ones. Showing good seafaring has always been about being polite and showing consideration – helping and giving space. Volunteering has always been a good condition in the sea. We got a boat in the 1960s. The first year we had a one-and-a-half-horse, the following year we got a three-horse engine. My father taught us that we should take account of each other and of other seafarers. So we slowed down as soon as we approached another boat, and we waved and greeted. If we met someone with a fully loaded boat, we almost stopped to not make waves – a wooden horse on a rosary, not a lot of waves, to say it like that! We could actually drive long stretches at full speed, because there were not very many boats at sea, even in the summer. That was a good place for everyone. Today it's different. There are queues in Blindleia, large and small boats around each other, utility traffic, yes old 'Øya' is still going, and there are kids in large baths and small boats where they fish in bays and on open seas. And there are kayak paddlers, more and more in all weather. To put it this way, there are many people who don't show much consideration. It seems that many do not know what it is like to have a small boat. If there is anyone along land who is going on board a boat, larger boats are going right past in full speed, so everyone has to wait on board until the waves have settled. The worst are almost those who believe it well, those with the big boats, who slow down just enough to make the waves big, round and heavy. So even though most behave well, it is more and more, in my experience, who do not have enough knowledge of good seamen, who are rude, reckless and run carelessly. Every year there are serious accidents at sea. Boats go on cutting and tearing. Many foreign recreational fishermen are sailing in rental boats. During the last 10 years, an average of 32 persons have been killed each year in connection with the use of recreational craft. About 10 000 injuries were reported to recreational boats each year, and in 2010 413 million were paid. NOK i in compensation. In the 2009 Travel Life Survey, the Institute of Transport Economics estimated that 33 pst. the population has access to recreational boat, an increase of two percentage points from 2005. So there will be more and more recreational boats. Before we said that the pleasure boats were like houses, now they've reached hotel size. If we compare the movement by sea with driving by road, we see clear differences: the roads are bounded, one must be allowed to drive, there are visible marks and signs all the way, and the rules are differentiated. Leisure or road play is prohibited. If drivers of a car see children along the road, they slow down and swing outside. The lake is for everyone. It shall accommodate play, recreation, training and commercial transport, and it shall be safe for everyone to travel by sea regardless of what they do. At sea, movement is more based on tradition and trust that consideration is shown to each other, an understanding that waves and movements in small boats are perceived differently from those in ‘house and hotel boats’. Secondly, the requirements are for drivers, age, knowledge and certification conditions that determine how big boats you can drive, and in which waters you can drive a boat. Promille is a factor which is decisive for the safety of boat drivers, passengers and traffic in contact, just like on the road. We know that a large part of the accidents are related to intoxication. The labelling of rentals and traffic-hazardous locations is another important element of safety. Many accidents occur in the dark, and the combination of little visible blades and mountain nodes, dark, high speed, no use of life jacket and promille is essential for the outcome. Compliance with all the laws and regulations is a greater challenge at sea than on the road. Sufficient checks are necessary. I am very pleased that the minister also sees the need for a thorough review of what can provide greater security for all those who travel by sea. For the Workers' Party, it is important to focus on safe and safe movement and to ensure that ‘the sea is free of all’. I am also pleased that a working group led by the Maritime Director has been set up to advise the various maritime organisations and associations. It is interesting in this context that the Maritime Director Olav Akselsen on 8 March 1996 had an interplay on the same theme. It would pay for the good follow-up of the case. Every summer there are many suggestions: more police, lower or higher per mille limit, mandatory lifejackets, boat records and boat licenses. I think it's important to look at all of this, both at the law and at the regulations. Given the number of laws and regulations existing in the field today, there should be scope for simplification. Our coastline is long and has different challenges. Consideration should also be given to the possibility of different zones, with different rules, as it is on the way. Depending on population density and traffic image — quantity and quality of the voyage path — there are differentiated rules and different signs on the road. I also think it is important to consider whether there may be some circumstances that can be imposed at different times, for example. when driving in the dark, more safety requirements are imposed than when travelling by day, such as lifejackets or boat driving licences. So I think the per mill limit has to go down. With the size that many boats have, and the different weight that it is when the large and small boats meet, in my view, it will be right with a pro-mille limit corresponding to the one we have on the way. When the car arrived, it was already in 1912, in the first motor vehicle law, the requirement that the driver ‘is obliged to be sober when driving’. I believe that with today's traffic picture in the most stressed areas, the prom and at the same time the boat don't have a reasonable or logical connection. Finally, I would like to say something about mind-creating work. I believe that a broad commitment should be made to this, where non-governmental organisations, boat associations and mariners' organisations can contribute to putting good seafarers on the agenda, including in the recreational boat fleet. I myself would like to invite meetings about this in Agder, and I expect such recordings to be included in the further consideration of the matter. I look forward to the debate. Although there were not many who had drawn themselves when I went up to the pulpit, sir. President, I hope someone comes eventually. I hope that the recordings that come here in this room will also be included in the further work. I wish you every success in the debate and I expect the Minister to listen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e126	The President can assure the interpellant that the log shows that many have signed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e129	The representative asks whether I would like to take the initiative of a wide-ranging review of legislation and awareness-raising work with the relevant bodies, with the aim of increasing the safety of recreational craft. Let me first say that Henriksen and I have had the same idea in my head at the same time. As I was familiar with the interpellation, I had just asked the Maritime Director to set up a working group to look at the safety of recreational boats in a broad perspective. More measures have been put in place in recent years to contribute to increased safety at sea through the use of recreational craft. Among other things, this government has introduced requirements for compulsory boating licences, we have introduced a sanction system for those who commit serious violations of the Code at sea, and took initiatives last year and this year for an awareness-raising campaign for the use of vests for adult men. Despite this, we are about to leave behind another summer and fall where serious accidents have occurred with recreational boats with several fatalities. It's awfully sad when what's going to be a good experience – being at sea – gets a tragic outcome. Extra evil is when young people with their whole lives go away. It has been a long time since the safety of recreational craft has been assessed and evaluated in a broad context. I believe the time has come for a complete review of the safety of recreational boats. At the end of August I therefore asked the Maritime Director to set up a wide-ranging working group. This shall assess the safety of recreational craft from a broad perspective, including an assessment of cause and effect of accidents. All public services involved in maritime safety are part of the working group. If we are to have a broad perspective on the review, it is important to ensure that relevant organisations and user groups are involved. With this in mind, the Maritime Director invited on 26 September this year to an open meeting in the Directorate. The Maritime Director has told me that it was good attendance and great interest in the theme, and that he got more recordings already at the first meeting. The working group will continue to work on these and other inputs and submit a report by 1 April next year. In order to ensure good progress, the Ministry has also granted additional appropriations to cover work costs. Anyone who has worked with safety – whether recreational or commercial – knows that laborious and systematic work is required over time to increase safety at sea. There are no simple grips or individual measures that can lead to a dramatic fall in the number of marine casualties in the short term. That's the sum of everything we do that can give us results. I trust that the Maritime Director and all the departments that are now involved in the work will turn each stone to see what measures can be taken to improve the safety of recreational craft in the long term. I am keen on what proposals the working group will make, and I can assure you that the government will carefully assess all the measures taken. That there is political interest around this also in Stortinget through Henriksen's interpellation, is very positive. It gives inspiration to the work of the Working Party of the Maritime Directorate. Hopefully, the debate will also give good ideas for this work. I know that the Maritime Director and the Working Group are following what is happening in the United Kingdom today, with great interest and, like the Department, will take along the proposals, ideas and views that emerge. The measures proposed by the working group may, of course, also require legislative changes, regulatory changes, changes in different legislation or appropriations. So this is most relevant for different aspects of Storting's work, but also, of course, for big business representatives as representatives of the population along a long and beautiful coast, which should be – just as the interpellant said – for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e155	I am very pleased with the signals given by the Minister of Industry. What he points to shows that it's done a lot, but as the minister also says, it's been a long time since it's been a complete review. I think it's very good that the minister already signals a clear and broad review, because I think that's what we need. We have plenty of proposals for individual measures, but now we need to see this in context. I am also very pleased that the Minister is taking the floor to listen very carefully to what comes out, and is positive to take the signals that come here from the Stortinget, into the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e160	We will take with us all the good ideas and suggestions that come, but we must also stress that it is not that we are now waiting for a working group and a big debate to take action. There is a lot already going on: marine water campaigns, control, regulations for perms at sea, traffic controllers, speed limits, the work of the rescue company, requirements for recreational boats in different regulations. So this comes hopefully as a help to all the work done, so that we expand and strengthen the work for a good and safe boat life for everyone and to bring down accident statistics as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e165	I think of summer idol as a desired heading in this interpellation. It's the feeling of having free, bird's song, wave wriggling, sea smell and the sound of boats that go back and forth. Sommeridyl may also be the sound of the deLillos’ song “Next Summer”, where it is among others. in the text: «It was once a summer in nineteen hundred and ninety-three Where the world was harmless along the coast of Norway somewhere’» It says a lot in relation to this. And then it's refuted: «When you come in the next summer I'll be here again. And we're going to sing old songs again." That's exactly what this is about, that we're going to be seen again after the summer because we're running safely from A to B, and that no door or accident is caused by unweed driving. But how are we going to do this? There's something about using the sense you've been given – seaweed is incredibly important – and that in itself can, of course, help to avoid a lot of accidents. But we politicians need to think about how we can influence and contribute, so that more people can get better at sea – through awareness-raising campaigns and visionary instruments, as one does by Norwegian roads, for example. with signposts with safety belt clamps along the road. We should be reminded of the seagoing look and often. We can, of course, make stricter rules, so that everyone, because of a few extravagant acts, has to be subject to stricter rules. But it can also be seen as an important preventive work. Restrictions and stricter rules are one thing, but we also need to follow up on controls and sanctions to ensure that this legislation is complied with. This is why one must also look at police resources in terms of staffing and equipment to be at sea, because in the high season it is desirable that the police keep up with the fact that they can be in place quickly, that they are working preventively to drive around in areas where maritime traffic is high. Attitude campaigns about the consequences of unwise driving are important. The same is true of safety equipment on board. In particular, it is advisable to encourage more people to take the boat licence. It's too easy to think that only young people are driving crazy. I often think it's going to be angled like this. But, as has also been said before, many middle-aged men are driving too fast and end up in these death statistics. Therefore, we should consider whether requirements for boat licenses or tougher penalties can help calm down this group as well. Every summer there is a lot of crazy driving. Someone is taken, others get away without accident, while someone hurts both themselves and others. I think it's a common task to say from when we see crazy driving, and we politicians need to look at how we can best enjoy boat life and summer days without falling into such an accident situation. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Industry has now given the Maritime Director the task of setting up a working group to assess the safety of recreational boats in a broad perspective. With an even better framework for security, people will be able to meet again next summer, and not least meet at sea and eat and enjoy good days. New, good measures can emerge from this review and, in particular, the best way forward around this legislation can be confirmed. And the government's policy is going to have a tough course in this context, which we really appreciate very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e191	Kari Henriksen asked for more people on the list of speakers, and I understand that, because this is an important matter. So it's like this in Stortinget that when there's a lot of consensus on the issues, it's not the big commitment. But at least I want to thank you for bringing this up, because it is an important matter. Now it's like Kari Henriksen and I live in the same part of the country, in the beautiful South, and there we experience this as a real challenge in everyday life, and we have it close to ourselves. I grew up with a grandfather who lived his life at sea, and what he taught me all the time was that I had to respect the dangers of the sea, and I had to take that with me even when I was going to act and move in relation to other seafarers. Those were the two important principles. Today you are standing on deck on the third floor with your eyes fixed on the GPS, but there is nothing to consider for other seafarers. We are constantly experiencing ships at sea that behave in a way that is directly dangerous to others, and also to themselves. This reproduces from one generation to the next, and suddenly this whole perspective of respecting the dangers of the sea and other seafaring is completely gone. It is great that the Council of State confirms that this is now being lifted as a matter of law. We really appreciate that. I hope this can be a matter of as much involvement as possible, and that so many are involved that there is actually a debate in the country about it. Because that's when we really get the counting for our issues. We can make decisions in the political environment, along with those who are most involved in these matters, but we have to lift this matter out, because this concerns many. There have been many ideas about action, and I think that is important. I think we should discuss many measures. However, there is no single measure that is crucial to how this happens, but what is crucial is how we can reintroduce good attitudes. The most important thing is to prevent obscene behavior that causes accidents and that creates these situations. I am glad that Kari Henriksen was also concerned with this with preventive work, because while we have to grips with the adult men, as it was said here, and which is probably a large part of the threat, it is important to start with the young people and teach them. Then I am glad that the budget points out that, for example. The rescue company shall further develop and operate with information and preventive maritime safety. The challenge becomes so great, and I must point out, that the rescue company is now going out and is warning that they need to reduce their business due to a lack of funds. So it's a challenge that I also ask the Council of State to include, that it intervenes from several other fields. He should probably also involve some other government councils in the priorities here. Even I have repeatedly pointed out the reduction in the police service at sea that we have experienced in our part of the country because of the lack of resources, both for equipment and for staffing. It's now once that the presence of the police is doing something about our behavior at sea. It is therefore important that it be followed up in these budget chapters as well. I hope that I can be part of the important signals coming out of the work to be done now. I hope the Council of State will ensure that as many environments as possible are involved in the debate, that it does not just happen to the central people who have this as a job, but that everyone can be involved – that political environments can be involved, that youth organisations can be involved – in such a way that we really get to work on the attitude-creating work. We have to make sure that it can again be the way the representative here referred from the song, that we kiss at sea, that we are happy to travel at sea, that we are not worried when we see others coming, and that we can also put in the evening without being afraid of accidents. Adults must be affected, they must be part of the training and training, and the organisations involved must be guaranteed good conditions. I am pleased to receive a lot of attention on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e208	I would like to thank Mr Henriksen for raising a very important issue. For those of us who have grown up in a boat, and who like to use our leisure time at sea, it's a matter of real interest, and that means a lot to the quality of life for many of us. Leisure traffic – which is often what we think most about, and which gets the most attention in this matter – has changed dramatically since I was a little boy. With the boats we have today, with the speed and the distance from the sea level up to the person who sits and controls, it's a completely different situation than what we had that time. And that's not enough. It's not just that the boats have changed and the speed has changed. Now there are also quite other groups on the sea. In the past, those who grew up by the sea used the sea. Today there are people from a whole other part of the country, sitting in a big boat with a big engine, running for GPS and hoping that things will go well. There are so many things that have changed when it comes to using the sea at leisure, which makes it really necessary to look at what rules we need to make it a safe place to stay. Every summer, there's a focus on these things. Most of us have probably been interviewed by both newspapers and televisions during the summer on what happens in connection with sea otters during the summer months. The father is that when the summer months are over and all the other things come on the agenda, we forget about this or put it aside, and then we'll be just as far away next summer. That is why it is very good that the representative Henriksen now addresses a matter that causes us to focus on it over time – that we see things in context. Then there's, as many have been in here, a wide range of things we have to look at. Speed limit in coastal areas I think it's very important to look at. The representative Henriksen was in the middle of how a person behaves in the dark. If you are out in a small boat – as I often am – and see the big ships coming, you feel relatively small, to say it mildly. So here's some things that are absolutely worth looking at. Several have suggested that the best way to solve such problems is to prevent them — to think through in this context, too, how to prevent them in a good way. What can we do in the school, for example.? Can we have a choice about acting on the sea, when we're about to get new qualications in the youth school? We have to think widely, as we mentioned earlier, when it comes to how we can run prevention. Since it has been so popular to quote people here: I have a writer whom I like well, Jakob Sande, and he has said, "In the morning I'll start a new and better life, I think. ‘... I hope we can start a new and better life, certainly!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e232	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for raising an important question, which is very much in the hands of many. From the centre party we are very concerned with safety at sea, not least after a number of tragic accidents last summer. These are events that impress us all, and it is important to look at measures aimed at preventing accidents in the future. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good and thorough answer. On the part of the Centre Party, we look forward to a broad review of the legislation and the launch of awareness-raising efforts to increase the safety of recreational craft. I further point out that in recent years more measures have been put in place to contribute to increased safety at sea using recreational boats. In this context, I would like to mention the introduction of requirements for a compulsory boat licence. In addition, a system of penalties is in place for those who commit serious infringements of the Code at sea. In the light of the accidents last summer, the question of injunctions for the use of life jackets in recreational craft came up as a topic. It has also been raised as a theme several times in the past. I think this is an input that the Council of State should look at, when someone is going to review today's legislation. In addition, consideration should be given to per mille limits and other necessary measures. We know that it's a set of events that are the background of the accidents we've been witnessing, and there are different events that are the background. This should be looked at, and the possibility of stepping up measures to prevent accidents should be considered. In addition to legislation and awareness-raising, several bodies and organisations are doing important work for safety at sea. It is important to facilitate good interaction between these, for the benefit of all those who travel at sea. I look forward to further follow-up to the matter and to more debates in the future. This is a debate that is important to keep alive, even in parts of the year, other than when the accidents happen. It is precisely in those parts of the year that you have to work actively to get action in place and prevent accidents in the next summer season.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e251	First, I want to thank you for the recordings that have been made. I see that there is a great deal of agreement about the main features of what should be done. It points to attitudes, to prevention, to rules and regulations, and the last speaker also addressed interaction, which is also an important element in looking at this. Alf Egil Holmelid said that one should focus on this also other times of the year. I fully agree with that. It must be both a complete and a full-year project. Even when it comes to mind-creating work, I think we can't just have it in the summer, we also have to have it all year to get that consciousness up. I would like to end by saying that some of this is probably going to be more debated when there are proposals for concrete rules, because there is probably greater political disagreement. But it's also a kind of cultural value, if I can use that word, which I think we need to debate a little bit, and there's the gap between being individuals and being selfish and taking into account each other at sea. Everyone here has pointed to attitudes. Those attitudes I think you have to test and challenge when you're going to make this new regulation, because egoism doesn't belong at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e261	I thank you for your input, and I'm sure the working group will notice that the Storting is handling the matter, the Maritime Directorate as well. I guess it's coming out very well in the hall here that a lot of things are about attitudes. It is about the personal choice and responsibility of individuals for themselves, for their fellow passengers on board the boat, and not least for others who travel by sea. Because we should be aware that by negligent action we not only put ourselves at risk, but we also destroy for others who use the sea as a leisure arena. It should also be said that most people use the sea in a sensible and reasonable way and have great pleasure in being at sea. We have many accidents – we have too many accidents – but we also have a huge number of people who, through a long summer and also partly in winter, use the sea actively. We need to be able to combine mind-creating work and rules in a good way. We need to balance demands for all, while at the same time having freedom under responsibility. It must be a combination of emphasising individual responsibility and the attitude-building work and the restrictions and requirements we set. That is also in the picture we need to see the proposal for a life jacket. It also has to be true, when we evaluate these things, that it is possible to enforce and use the instructions and rules we make in a practical and good way. This balance must be kept under constant review, so that we both take care of safety and security and take care of well-being and freedom as it is at sea. I'm absolutely sure we're going to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e270	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e276	In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-20.ana.ud846e419	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
