ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e63	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e66	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Marie Reiertsen, Per Arne Olsen and myself, I am delighted to propose an extension of the sick pay scheme for cancer patients and access to a flexible health pay scheme – amendment to Law 28 February 1997 No. 19 on popular fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e71	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e85	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has asked for the floor to deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e88	I will go to the relatively unusual step for us in the Right – and for me personally too – to ask that this matter be postponed and sent back to the Committee. I'll just briefly explain the reason. After delivery, we believe that there has been so much in the case that we feel uncertain whether the setting is correct in relation to the many uncertainties that have arisen. The economy, the plan assumptions, the other forms involved, and environmental assumptions are also involved. All in all, this should be enough to take a new round on the matter in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e95	What Halleraker here says is to consider a postponement proposal. This means that the President will decide on a short round to discuss the proposal for a postponement, before we possibly go to reality and adopt a debate. The President asks that those who have asked for the floor now only deal with the question of whether or not the matter should be postponed. That means the president won't use the already recorded roster. The representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten has asked for the floor for the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e102	The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party oppose a postponement of this case. We believe it is thoroughly illuminated, first through a comprehensive municipal and county planning process, then through a joint plan for E6 and Dovrebanen, where both the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency participated in a cooperation. A draft selection study was carried out for the Railway Agency’s project and, on the basis of this, it was decided to carry out the further planning process as a pilot project, both of which cooperate. Planning this project started in the spring of 2001 and has now taken more than 10 years. Relevant issues have been fully addressed in this process, both locally, regionally and nationally, not least as a result of discussions with municipalities and other stakeholders on trajectory choices. A number of questions have also been answered by the Ministry of Transport when the matter has now been before the Committee. We therefore believe that the case has been the subject of a thorough discussion, that it has been adequately illuminated, and that it is completely appropriate to deal with it today. On this basis, we oppose a postponement of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e113	First, I'm a little unsure about who's behind the proposal. Is it just right, or is the other one too? The proposal has not yet been put to the table of the representatives. I have to say that I am a little surprised at the proposal that is now being promoted in order to put the matter at risk, after the committee has given its opinion. With a few exceptions, everything that has emerged in the media in recent days has been well known to those members of the Committee who have wanted to meet with actors who have wanted to inform about some of the issues that have been revealed in recent days, including: Norsk Bane. The last few days' media pressure from Today's Business, Hedmark Arbeiderblad and the Romanesque Blade make, as far as I'm aware, that the two parties of the Christian People's Party and the Right are desperately trying to get out of the situation they themselves have been in. What's too bad about the proposal they're making today is that it's like hitting a blow in the middle of the loose air. The government parties will vote against the proposal – we have already heard that – but if the same parties had taken this up in the committee before the case was given last Thursday, the matter could have been postponed, because then the parties Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party had a majority in the committee. Now it's just going to be a symbolic blow in the loose air. We do not want to contribute to the postponement of the road development of the E6, so I ask the representatives of the Progress Party to vote against the postponement proposal and also ask that everyone support our proposals on the matter, which will come later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e122	I cannot undertake to speak on behalf of the entire Hedemark bench, but I feel absolutely sure that so to say the entire Hedemark bench is very concerned that this matter should be dealt with quickly. We're pleased that we finally got a proposition for the Stortinget, where we have a joint project between rail and road. There have been very thorough processes, many laps locally in local government, in county councils, and all sides have been illuminated. There has been a powerful debate, and then a conclusion has been drawn. For our country, it is extremely important to be able to make progress in this project. Installations are already in progress, and we see no reason to wait. As the county representatives, we are pleased that the matter is being discussed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e131	Then the President may choose to interpret this as a explanation of vote on behalf of the Central Party, not just the representatives of Hedmark!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e134	There has been considerable and good work in this matter in the Committee's proceedings. A lot of questions have been asked, and in the setting that leads there are also significant critical comments, although the Right Party and the Christian People's Party support the setting according to the Committee's work. What is serious, however, is that much more information has been made available after the Committee has completed its work. It is not correct for the representative of Hoksrud to say that this information has been known in advance. I believe that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have met with the various actors, but there has been information related to quality assurance work and processes around what was not known. There are also environmental and cost aspects that have emerged in retrospect. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will support the proposal from the Right that we postpone the matter. This case has taken a long time, but it is the government's treatment that has taken a very long time. The Christian People's Party had believed, with the long-standing government, that they had done a better and more thorough job, and that the quality assurance had been done. That is why I support the proposals of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e143	I would just like to say that the Left also supports this postponement proposal, with the same justification that the chairman of the Committee has now given. I'm not on the Transport Committee during this period. I was sitting there in the last period. My first concern I sent back in 2006. I will get closer to it in the main post, when we start to deal with the matter. The left supports this postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e152	Several have not asked for the word to comment on the postponement proposal. Only for the sake of the protocol, so that the President has understood correctly: the representative Halleraker put forward the proposal on behalf of the Right, and it receives the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left parties. - That's all right. Then we're ready to go to voting. A proposal has been put forward by Mr Halleraker, on behalf of the Right, to deal with case No. 1 is deferred. This will mean that the matter will be referred back to the committee. Representatives of the three government parties and the Progress Party will vote against the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e174	The proposal has fallen, and we are ready to deal with the matter in substance. The President then goes on in the debate. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e185	I think I would like to start by stressing that in this article I am dealing with the matter as it exists from the Committee. The joint project E6 Minnesund-Skaberud and Dovrebanen Langset-Kleverud is finally to be discussed in this room. E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen in Akershus and Hedmark is mentioned in National Transport Plans 2006–2015 and 2010–2019. The first part of the route was opened in 2009 and the second stage was opened on 7 November this year. The road project Dal–Minnesund, 19 new kilometres on E6, was built at a speed of 800 m per month – as far as I know, the fastest road development we have had in Norway, and at a lower price than estimated. The continuous motorway, which up to a few years ago went from Oslo to the Gardermoen, now extends ever further northward. The E6-Dovreban Joint Project is an extension that is even safer and provides more efficient transport between north and south in the country. Construction will start in the spring of 2012 and E6 will be opened for traffic in the autumn of 2014, while the double track will be completed in 2015. Such a development, at the same time as a joint project, has many advantages. This means cost saving, plant simplification and minimisation of traffic and environmental disadvantages during the construction period. With the solution chosen, it is possible to use excess mass from E6 to fill the Dovre track, which on the same route has a significant mass loss, while strengthening cooperation between the Road Administration and the Railway Works. The joint project is one of the largest transport projects in Norwegian history. I cannot present a unanimous opinion from the Committee on this matter. Nor are there unanimity in the comments, but the majority in the Committee, i.e. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are pleased that the development of road and rail are coordinated on this route along Mjösa. This majority advises Stortinget to support the option. The Progress Party has its own proposals, which they will probably explain, and one of the proposals is to postpone the matter. I just want to stress that the majority – that is, all the other parties – does not support a postponement, with the many unfortunate consequences it will have. As with most new road and rail projects, there have been different views and difficult balances in this case. When the local authority plan for the route was established by the Ministry of the Environment in February 2009, extensive discussions took place on issues such as: trachea and tampering. This led to a better solution, which takes into account good access, good landscape adjustment and refurbishment of the beach zone, and will make the sandy beaches more accessible to the public. The old railway track shall be converted to the pedestrian and cycle path and shall be part of a continuous cycle path around Mjösa. The majority of the Committee, which in this case is likely to represent the minority of the Grand Duchy, is still not satisfied with the electoral process and will certainly justify it in the further debate. At the same time, only the Progress Party will postpone the major joint project. So there's a broad consensus about starting the project. The development of double tracks between Eidsvoll and Hamar on the Dovrebanen is part of the current NTP, and the route Langset-Kleverud along Mjösa is within the first period. So the project is now being implemented as we planned in NTP. Time-consuming planning processes have long been a central theme of the public debate and there would have significant implications for the progress of overall development if the route were to be re-examined and, if necessary, changed. The size was familiar with the common planning process and the pathway for the treatment of NTP. The working party, SV and the Centre party are satisfied that the government specifies that the line south of Langset and north of Kleverud is now to be re-assessed, with a view to increasing the speed to 250 km/h or more. Increased speed for the other sections will affect the travel time and the competitiveness of any new high-speed offer. The Eidsvoll-Hamar project thus represents a turning point for the high-speed standard on Norwegian rail. Eidsvoll municipality has plans for large growth in the coming years and as part of the expansion project, the area for a future train stop on Langset/Minnesund is being developed. I recommend with this majority position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e217	Today, we are going to make an important and major decision on the development of E6 from Minnesund to Creatorud and Dovrebanen from Langset to Kleverud. With regard to the development of E6, there is no disagreement that this is very important to get in place as quickly as possible. The Progress Party therefore supports the development of E6 100 pst., but we want government funding without tolls. I wish the government had done a good and thorough job of planning the Langset-Kleverud route, too, so that we could support this part of the project. The progress party believes that it is very important to build a real double track in the entire intercity triangle. Unfortunately, several essential questions have arisen about the railway part of the project, which means that we cannot support it. One question is why a proper investigation of a trasé that, according to Deutsche Bahn, is both cheaper and leads to less extensive natural interventions. Another question is why the Minister for Transport chose to stop the quality assurance report, which is important to ensure that the costs of the project are correct. There is one more thing that strikes me when I read the position of the committee, and that is that the majority – from Right to SV – is going in to launch a railway project with irresponsible planning and quality assurance, uncertain cost frameworks and huge environmental damage in the beach zone along Mjøsa. It's a paradox that the parties that are in favour of this like to think of themselves as both champions of economic accountability and environmental champions. Here the majority gives the bluff both in the economy and in the environment. This will appear to be one of the worst ravines of time on the shoreline at the largest lake in the country, and this happens with the government's blessing. I have registered that former representative Heidi Sørensen from SV has stated that this needs to be stopped, and I have also seen small indications of dissatisfaction with the entire process from the representative Langeland. However, nothing has come out of it. Although our two parties are usually far apart from each other politically, I believe that SV should be extremely disappointed to have taken such a weak stand in such an important environmental matter. In this case, I think there is a majority against the expansion, but that someone does not dare stand up and vote for what they think. On the contrary, the Right and Christian People's Party are trying to play on two horses. The right and Christian People's Party stands in this case together with the Advance Party on very critical comments about the project, but at the same time goes along with the left side about going in to start the construction, even though the Right and Christian People's Party have now suddenly found out that supporting the government is not so smart, and that they are now making a proposal to send the matter back to the government for new treatment. In this way, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have now sanctified themselves against future criticisms related to overcosts and construction problems, while today they will try to beat themselves on the chest and say that they showed the power of action. So they're trying to seem to agree with everyone – or nobody, if you want. The cost has increased from 6.9 billion. kr in 2008, in August 2011. kr and in November 2011 it has increased by a new 1 billion. kr – to 10 brd. kr. The railway works now say that they really don't know exactly what the costs are going to be. Then it seems quite wild to vote for that part of the project that you do not know the consequences of today. It's like stabbing your head in the sand and hoping it's going well in the end. It is sad to see that the majority chooses such a lewd attitude towards taxpayers’ money in order to build a poor trasé, which is little forward-looking, and which will help to ensure that the speed of a new train route will be well down to 130 km/h – and we are talking about a high speed of more than 250 km/h. With regard to the road, the uncertainty is much smaller and the environmental intervention is much smaller, so we wholeheartedly support this to extend as quickly as possible, without delay. The proposal to have a new proposal for a railway line shall not delay the development of the road. It is important that the road is developed as quickly and efficiently as possible because the route is already heavily damaged. Finally, I want to say that I have a great deal of compassion for all the taxpayers, who have to pay a bill with blank cheques to finance a bad railway network, which will be a major intervention in the environment, and which I think the majority are actually opposed. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e243	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposals he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e246	This case is an important issue for the area along Mjösa and the transport challenges on both road and rail. We are very pleased with this kind of development, where you can see the railway and the road in context, and where you can lay a planning basis where the road and the railway are put together in terms of both planning, economics and the effects it has on the land and the environment. That being said, we're going to be very clear that the expansion of E6 northward along Mjösa is good, and we're going to support it wholeheartedly. However, what has been disturbing in this matter is the fact that new elements have emerged both during the management of the matter in the Committee, in the course of the work of the Committee and before its delivery, but not least after the matter has been referred to the Committee. There have been new moments about every day and several times a day. Summaries are that there is a big gap in the cost estimate based on what Norsk Bane/Deutsche Bahn has done in its calculations, and what the government is presenting. What is also alarming is that this information has moved to the government along the way, without being mentioned in the proposition. In addition, in this case, there are alternatives from the High-Speed Investigation, which outlines where a high-speed straé, if any, will go in this area. That is quite surprising with what is the starting point for the Deutsche Bahn and Norsk Bane options. But it is not coordinated and mentioned in the proposition and in the case delivered by the government. There it lies to an eastern trasé, which is not similarly located along Mjösa. It just means that once in the future, when we're going to treat a high-speed rhinestone, it's going to go in the path that's along Mjøsa, which the government is now presenting, and give a speed of 140 km/h on some sections. In addition, it is said that there is a majority decision in the Storting that new lines in the case of railway should be prepared for a speed of 250 km/h. Nor is it likely and demonstrated in the proposition, despite the fact that the high-speed investigation comes back and outlines another alternative. As if not enough, with regard to the new information in today’s business yesterday in the context of railway quality assurance along Mjösa, there is a claim – and partly undocumented by the government, so it is not mentioned – that the government council Meltvei Kleppa stopped the process only six days after she took the Ministerial post in the autumn of 2009. What is this? More democracy, more openness? And what does this mean in terms of quality assurance, costs, environment and area? It has at least led us to question this and also to propose a postponement, which has been rejected here today. But I come back to another suggestion at the end of my post. So it's private actors who feel that they're being kept out, and they've made it clear that they have a different option, and that this is not mentioned by the government. This means that we, who are going to deal with this matter, will receive new information, and despite questions to the government about the cost estimate, it becomes black that this planning has come too far, we cannot take account of majority decisions in the Stortingen regarding 250 km/h, and the cost estimate produced by Norsk Bane and Deutsche Bahn is not credible, it is not going to be cheaper, as these claim, says the government, it will be on the contrary 4 billion. kr more expensive with their arrangements than what they sketch. In addition, the information that quality assurance has been stopped and that we do not have a complete review of what should be the basis for such an important issue in terms of creating a railway for the future – which will be there for more than 100 years – and which will also ensure that it is speeded up and that quality is important. So when it comes to accountability from the representative of the Progress Party, I just want to comment on it so far. It is a matter of the fact that, in its position and in its proposal, the Progress Party goes right on to another proposal, without this having been quality assured, without this having been calculated in terms of cost, without going any further than sending this matter back to the Committee. I will address a proposal which will be subsequently distributed at the seats of the representatives. This proposal is a postponement – not by points 1, 2 and 3 of the vote itself, but by point 3 of the ballot. It's on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e275	Then we will see the proposal that the representative Mr. Ingerd Schou spoke about and took up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e278	It's a big day for me today when it's about high-speed. Now all the parties in the Storting are for the development of high-speed trains, for today the Progress Party has gone for a trajectory that can be used in a future high-speed betting in Norway. There was a check information for SV today. So the case spokesperson has presented the government party's setting in a good way. Not least, the case spokesman stressed that this is a joint project between Vegvesenet and the Railway Agency and that it is positive. I think most of the parties are some that it's positive, and that we want more of it. I think it's necessary for Stortinget to have a little review of the history of this. Now I've been on this committee for six and a half years. This matter is not new to us in the government party at all. The premise for this matter is not made by the Minister of Transport or this government, they are made by the previous government, and the cases are followed up by today's Minister of Transport. She has also, of course, been followed up by our new railway director, in line with the decisions made by the Stortinget and the government. The responsibility for what is being presented today lies with the current Minister of Transport, but it has a history, which has instructed both the Minister of Transport and the new Director of Railways to follow up the principle of where this trajectory is going. There is no doubt that this matter has been raised on a high level many times before. She has, of course, our quality insurance in the Ministry of Finance, she has been in the Prime Minister's office many times, so here there are many who have said that the premise is that this should go along Mjösa. Nor is it to hide that initially working SV for another trasé choice – one that does not go along Mjösa, considering 250 km/h plus, for which a multiple has gone for, in view of environmental interventions, given that a new trasé can be built without a stop to existing train traffic, and not least there was an insecurity when it came to cost estimates, also for me in 2008. But in February 2009, the Ministry of the Environment said that these are good things, and that is what they are doing, and so our cases have been dealt with almost at all levels of the government apparatus. State councils will now answer the new questions that may have appeared in the media image. Among other things, I may have thought that the experts on clay from the geological institute were not in contact, but here it is still possible to follow up the further work of the Council of State. I'm really sure she'll do it. So with these few, but who always chose the words, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e295	The rapporteur has explained the matter in terms of history and consideration in the Committee in a very good way, so I shall just add a few words. This is one of the projects where we've really seen railway development and road development as a whole, and that's very useful. These are the projects we want to have several of, where you see the total transport demand together and look at how you can solve it together. Now we have an example of that -- that's very good. New Dovrebane and E6 shall be built as a joint project along Mjösa. The lines will go parallel. The route being built shall be built for freight trains, intercity trains, long-distance trains and possibly high-speed trains. There's been a lot of talk about the beach zone, that you get reduced chances of using it. But in fact, this expansion will release 8.5 km of beach area, and you can make good use of subways and secure walking and cycling roads. This makes it more accessible to the public, and you can use the beachline better than you could have done at this point. It's an important matter for Hedmark, of course. There's been a lot of commitment there over a very long time. The case has a long history, as has been explained, from the beginning of 2000, when the planning process was started. Local authorities and county municipalities have been heard, as the representative of Langeland said, by a lot of authorities inside the government apparatus, and there have been communications along the way with several possible actors. So that's a good thing, I mean, it's an important thing, not only for Hedmark, but actually also for us further north of the country, who need to transport goods from north to south, to the Alnabru terminal and beyond. It is important that we facilitate increased freight traffic, and we will have the opportunity with this double track where we ensure that there will be capacity for freight in the future. With these few words, the Central Party clearly supports the project that exists, and believes that it will be a good solution, which will benefit us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e308	This should actually have been a joyful debate, a debate in which we just pointed out that almost for the first time we are able to see the road and the railway at once. This has been an important goal for the majority in Stortinget, and it is clear that it also has our intention on the part of the government. I don't think there's any reason to smile too much, and that's among other things. because of the unexplained parts that we have on the railway side – the environmental aspects. That extension we will now see at Mjøsa, will be one of Norway's largest interferences in the coastal zone. Questions have also been asked about the estimate of costs. It's also done in the setting, and that's one of the things I want to challenge the government council today. Now what do the last cost estimates say, and is what is said in the proposition from the government, the cost estimate that the government now thinks is the right one? And we've also been able to present our plan sketches over this period of time to the Stillesby Committee. When they think of high-speed, they add a different plan than what the government proposes in its proposal. This, which I have come up with now, has been a familiar case, which has been part of the thorough examination of the committee, and I can conclude that the case-speaker has managed this work in a good way. It has been a thorough and good consideration in the committee; it has asked our 15 questions on these matters to the ministry. But there are also issues that come up after the treatment that I thought it was well worth looking at. One is that the KS1 process should never have ended. I thought the Council of State would have to say something about that in its article. So once again, there's new figures around the cost estimate, which makes it even more uncertain, but there was also a discussion during the process. So we have today's headlines, where it is said that a builder of clay, and that researchers who should have been in the process, have not been. I expect that there is also something the Council of State mentions in its article. It is wrong what the representative Hoksrud says in his post. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left do not ask that this matter be brought back to the government, we ask that this matter be referred back to the committee. So what Hoksrud said about us demanding this back to the government is wrong. We would like to see a discussion within the committee. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will support paragraphs 1 and 2 of the resolution, and we ask that paragraph 3 of the resolution be set up against the proposal from the Right. And so I also thought, as the representative Langeland is here, that it's nice that the Progress Party adds to a certain understanding of high-speedness by going for a plan sketch that opens up to 250 km/h. It's the same party that a couple of years ago said Norway isn't particularly suitable for railways. What we can say is that the Progress Party is changing its railway policy in high speed! As I said, this should be a happy day. But before we can say that, I think the Council of State has to do the right thing on several points for what the process has been. This is particularly true of the KS1 process, it is true of what the last estimate of costs is now, and it also applies if the necessary professionals have been associated with, among other things. the ground, soil and clay conditions in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e325	It's with a little bit of mixed emotions I'm standing on this pulpit today. This is a matter I've been following for a long time – I'll come back to – and it's a matter that's important for us who are concerned with good communication paths in Norway. Both the E6 and the expansion of intercity are important steps in such a context. The government has put the Storting in a difficult situation. Let me start with the most important thing: all transport growth in and between the largest cities should in the future be done with rail and public transport, not with increased car and air transport. The trajectory that underlies the railway between Eidsvoll and Hamar, can, or we shall say, prove to be poor planning for the future. The decision is bad for the beach zone along Mjösa, and it is not sufficiently dimensioned for speeds neither for intercity nor as the first step towards a high-speed network in Norway. The government thus undermines the entire high-speed investigation before it has at all started, as the Left sees it. It's a problem that today's policy suggests that parts of the new intercity triangle are being expanded without being organized for high speed, and the government can't say it didn't know. Already in 2006 I addressed these issues in a written question, and I have followed up with questions almost every year since then. The government has with full insight and with full consciousness entered into this trajectory, although it always knew that it would not be a decision for the future. In addition, there is now uncertainty about costs, as explained by the chairman of the Committee. In a known style, the government parties owe to the previous government. With respect to reporting: after sitting with a majority government for six years, most outside this house understand the unfairness of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e337	The Dovre track is currently running as single tracks along the Mjösa and is a barrier. The new parcel that is now to be built will go in tunnels at Morskogen and will thus release 4 km of shoreline where there is today a railway. In addition, a path extends further from Mjösa than the current one. This will release 8.5 km of coastline between Minnesund and Espa. In other words, the development of new roads and railways means that more shoreline is available than is the case today. Parts of the existing Dovrebane along Mjøsa shall be converted to walk and cycle path, Mjøstläkk. In addition, subways and bridges will be created to ensure easier access to the beach zone than is the case today. Mr. President, I have to make sure there must be something wrong with the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e346	The councils will have a fresh start!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e349	It's fine! The 17 km long parcel to be built is planned and dimensioned for 200 km/h. The feasibility of building the 250 km/h parcel was assessed after the Stortinget asked for such an assessment, even if the parcel was planned and traverse determined before the staging decision. However, the path distance is not sufficient to be dimensioned for 250 km/ h. If it would be possible to build the entire stretch Eidsvoll-Hamar for 250 km/h, it could give 120 seconds faster running time for the high-speed Oslo-Hamar. In practice, for intercity trains to stop the tangent and bar, there will be no difference in travel time. In the further extension northwards towards Hamar and Lillehammer it will be possible with 250 km/h as dimensional speed. It's now under construction. As you know, a concept evaluation for intercity Oslo-Lillehammer is being carried out. In the planning process of today's expansion, three main options were considered for trasear in two stages, including an eastern trasé along the hill above Mjøsa. The plan began early in the 21st century and was finally established by the Ministry of the Environment in 2009. A total of two eastern trasears have been evaluated. They were put away because it would then take too many years before such a parcel could be used. Parcels along existing paths will be able to be applied as they are completed. The costs of an eastern trasé, custom freight trains, were estimated to be 50 pst. higher. I think we use too much time to plan big projects. I also have the impression that it is Stortinget's vision. I have started a project to streamline planning processes. This project is a good example of why it takes too long. Even after nearly ten years of planning, persistent attempts are still being made to question a concept that was chosen several years back in time, after an extensive debate. There is a time for planning – for discussion, for distribution and quality assurance – and a time for construction and implementation. I think this project is ready for construction. The best concept is chosen. Now we have to get started. During the treatment of the previous NTP, Stortinget concluded the development of the road project E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen in Akershus and Hedmark. Further development of the quadruple road north of Gardermoen was prioritised, for the sake of both road safety and road safety. The development has taken place in stages, with the road section between Minnesund and Creatorud as the last of a total of three. The route is expected to open in the autumn of 2014 and will then have a continuous four-field path from Oslo to Colomoen. Inherent national transport plan is the simultaneous planning and development of E6 and the Dovrebahn along Mjösa. Development is organised as a common project. The railway is upgraded with double tracks between Langset and Kleverud – an extension, as a means of increasing the capacity of the Dovre track. The railway project is a priority within the inherent NTP, starting during the first planning period and expected completion in 2015. A total expansion is estimated to reduce costs of about 300 million. kr due to large coordination gains. In addition, the local environment is saved for the disadvantages of the work itself by reducing the overall construction time of the two projects. As the Committee points out, such coordination poses challenges. The Ministry of Transport is working to improve governance and see, among other things, on reporting procedures and the management of inconsistency.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e373	I very much agree with the Council of State that it is important to get ahead of the projects. But I would like to know what the authority the Council of State has to say that she can only drop the quality assurance work in this case, because it may be important for the Stortinget – and possibly the Control and Constitutional Committee – if something has been broken. But it's going to be exciting to hear what the council says about it. So I think it's special that the Council of State says that this is done well and thoroughly, when you see that it's a cash gap without equal. So from 2008 until today, it's 3.1 billion. kr in exceedances – so far – and the railway works say that there is more to come. How can the Council of State think that this is thoroughly investigated, and that you have all the facts on the table that make it just to run, when the Railway Agency says they don't know what the final sum is actually going to be on this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e382	It is not obvious that KS1 will be done on all projects. But let me underline: this project is quality-symbol of an external quality insurer, as suggested by the proposition. There is also no requirement about it. There will be given exceptions. If we had followed up here with KS1 on a KVU – where one should go new rounds before that was the case – then this project had to have been postponed to the next four-year period and could not be followed up in line with what was agreed in spring 2009. So let me say, the whole thing has been treated, for example. Kvivsvägen, Vosepaket, Sky-Langang, rv. 2 Kongsvinger–Slomarka, E6 west of Alta – without having been KS1 on any of them. Nor have we asked any questions about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e389	The Quality Assurance Institute was established by the Stoltenberg I Government in 2000. Then it was KS1. There were clear assumptions as to what should be taken into account in a KS1 assessment. It was then felt that quality assurance of cost estimates and management data was also necessary, so that there was a supplementary provision in 2005 – in any case, it was presented at that time. So we're talking about two very different things when we talk about KS1 – which is a quality assurance of the choice of concepts – and KS2, which is therefore a cost estimate and the management basis. Governments always refer to KS2. I have a very specific question to the Council of State: Why has KS1 not been carried out in this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e396	As the representative of Halleraker is well aware, there is far wider and longer experience with KVU/KS1 processes on the road than on the road. As you know, so many railway projects have not been undertaken before this government took over. So the local processes were very far away when one was faced with the question of going a new round of concept evaluation, and then KS1, rather than following up what the Storting had already agreed on in spring 2009 and earlier. Here you need to bet on a joint project - road path along Mjøsa. Then it is true that the choice was true: We build in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e403	The answers from the Council of State on how the Council of State deals with quality assurance schemes are suitable for reflection and provide a basis for us to pursue it in a different way in retrospect. But in order to be more direct and constructive, does the Council of State feel sure that the technical solutions are satisfactory on the railway part of the project? Is the Council of State confident that the price calculations have been satisfactorily carried out for the railway project? Is it also the case, as the Council of State has suggested to today's business, that if it is cutting at the speed of this double track in view of a possible high-speed concept, will you actually build a new double track for high-speed alongside what you are now proposing to build? And where are the quality assurance reports? Why not follow those projects up to the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e410	To the question if I feel sure, the answer is yes. If not, I would not have presented this matter either to the government or to the Stortinget at that time. I feel confident that there is something called decision-making and follow-up. It's something like one today, this day, looks like a bad turn of events, and it's something that's called a fight for decisions that's been made several years back. So for high-speed output, yes, we could choose to wait for the next big message to set a high-speed setting, i.e. spring 2013. I actually didn't think that the people along the Mjösa, who are waiting for a better train track on a stretch where today there is a burst of capacity, are on fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e419	In its replies, state councils now said that it is not obvious that there is a KS1 process, and that KS1 processes have a longer history on the road than on the road. But then my question is, if a KS1 process is started, isn't it natural to end the kind of process that a process has started? Then my question is also: is it that a KS1 process has never been started associated with this case and the railway, or is it such that a KS1 process has been started that has not been completed? There is great uncertainty about when the Stortinget now deals with this matter, and I ask the Council of State to do the right thing for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e427	Let me say that it is often the case that KVU – i.e. final completion, follow-up of the distribution, with listening rounds, etc. – goes parallel to quality assurance, i.e. KS1. What one stood up to in the autumn of 2009 was: should one here ignore the local processes that have come a long way? Should a new question be asked about concept currency operations and then complete the quality assurance? Or is one going to act on the Stortinge's decisions, as they were already in the spring of 2009? We chose to stick to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e434	In 2005, the then Minister for Transport Torild Skogsholm took the initiative to conduct a high-speed investigation. That's what this government has been following up, and that's what the Left is very pleased about. The left is especially concerned with the intercity triangle. What thoughts does the Minister for Transport now make himself concrete about this intercity section? Will this not undermine a future high-speed rail?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e439	I mean first of all, it's very important to get the distance that we're dealing with today, precisely because it's becoming part of a future intercity triangle. I argued that we could come back with the timing of the entire triangle in connection with the forthcoming national transport plan. So it's clear to be able to plan for 250 km/h, as the high speed lead, as we do north of the tangent, but here's also done the trick for why it doesn't go south anymore. In the longer term, I see that there can be a debate about a private high-speed track further east.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e446	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e451	This is a joyous day, and it is a great day for us who represent Hedmark on the Stortinget. In 2005, people went from stamina to progress in transport projects in Norway — not least for the county I represent. The State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete went in, split up the road project, so that one could start building from Gardermoen to Dal and from Creatorud to Colomoen. It was opened in 2009 – a great victory! Thanks to that division, Dal–Minnesund also began afterwards, and it was now opened in the autumn, and there has been a tremendous progress in the project. From the fact that there has only been a standstill and talk about building four-field E6 this year after year, thanks to political intervention progress from the day one when the Council of State took over Liv Signe Navarsete. She went in, used political discretion and in her time overthrew the Road Directorate at that point. That's very good. It is very important for Norway, not least for Hedmark, and it has been a successful project. Now it's for the railway. The start of a double-track project on the Dovrebahn has been talked about and talked about – but now it goes from standstill to progress, and we who run that railway almost every day, see that the railway station is already very well started with the planning and planning of that project. There's a lot already happening. You use the resources well, and you have progress in the project. The fact that the development of the railway system along with the development of the four-field E6 also leads to significant cost savings and less local environmental disadvantages. There's an enormous amount of mass to be moved in such a project, and the fact that you can see these things together and pull them together is a project for the follow-up. There is no doubt that there was a large local debate, and there were a lot of local rounds around trasé elections. Many of us would have wanted it to be freed even more of a beach zone – because we represent an area that we represent a county. But at a certain point in time, a conclusion is drawn, and that's the way it is in this project now: the conclusion is drawn, and there's peace around this in the bar, there's peace around this in Hedmark. There have been many debates, and some lost, some won. However, it is important to remember – for the rest of the time – that after the expansion, the beach area becomes more accessible than before the expansion, because today the railway is located in the beach area all the way and is not equipped for access to the sandy beach. So when this project is finished, some will come out like losers and others who win, but in sum, the sandy beaches become more accessible than they have been to now. For us in the Central Party it has been enormously important to have progress in these projects, and that it should go from a period under Bondevik II, where there was a total standstill, to a period under the Red-Green Government, where there is a progress in various projects in Hedmark – I am proud to be a representative!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e466	The Progress Party will have continuous double tracks in the intercity triangle, and there we are consistent. On the other hand, the other batches claim that they are too light train, while at the same time they want to build a route at a maximum speed of 200 km/h, which will have a single-track bottleneck of 130 km/h. The European definition of high-speed trains is a train with a speed starting at 250 km/h, and it is therefore quite clear that genuine lightning trailers would have gone for a trajectory other than that chosen by the majority. It can't be like building a 200 km/h route – and then building a completely new route almost right next to it, but with a straighter curve, over 200 km/h. It's unrealistic, and we all know that. I have a theory of why the other parties on the one hand say they're too fast, and on the other hand build new sections at a much lower speed. I think they're not really too fast trains, but on the contrary, this is something they say to get the focus off today's bad railways. The new route that the majority will extend will also not be optimal for rail freight. Freight trains simply do not like steep hills, and then you cannot implement a plan that will give a steep, single-track bottleneck. In this way, the railway works' plan and preferred trasé choices will also become a barrier to getting more goods on track, as the Progress Party wants to facilitate. Yes, you can wonder if the other parties at all mean anything with their beautiful words that they want more goods on track, when they go in for the expansion of the opposite. The proposed trasé of the railway works will also be more exposed to floods and races than to eastern trasé. That might mean that the other parties in this area are also inconsistent. They believe in large, man-made climate change, but choose to ignore the dangers of floods and raspberries in choosing a trasé – very inconsistent, in other words. Was there anyone talking about letting action follow words? We also have bottlenecks on the Sørlandsbanen, where train traffic has to go at a much lower speed. Sometimes when I drive a train, you can walk next to the train – without getting sweaty – and keep the same speed as the train. Yes, you can even go faster than the train. These conditions inhibit the transport of people and goods and the risk of race poses a high safety risk. This should be done when planning new routes. This is 2012, and then you can't plan for the trains as you did when you plan the Sørlandsbanen 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e484	I guess we'll be able to admit that it's just on the platform that we can go faster than the train! At least that's good. It is clear that this project has been strongly longed for in Hedmark, and it is going to create joy that it is going to begin. It's pretty obvious. It does any infrastructure project in Norway — we are quite hungry on time infrastructure. But I also have to say that for someone who has been a strong supporter of getting ahead of the project and taking advantage of the benefits of coordinated road and rail development, the last few days' media coverage has been a reason for a lot of thought. I have to admit that, and it was with a heavy heart that I voted for the project to be sent back to the committee for another round. I admit that, too. But this is about social planning with long-term perspectives. I am not quite able to relate to the fact that we are talking about a new line of 250 km/h next to the one that is now being built. It's totally unrealistic. It is this trajectory that is going to apply to the entire interior – and also upwards towards Trondheim – in the incalculable future. Then I have to say that I am quite shocked that we have been planning for ten years – it is four years since the Stortinget decided that 250 km/h should be planned as a speed – and then there will be an extension that does not relate to it. I think that's shocking. I think the government council was in on something reasonable when she said that we actually have to look at what kind of planning processes we have. If a planning process doesn't manage to turn around a little in four years, we have a challenge in this country with as many projects as we're going to do. That's the main reason why I was in favour of the postponement proposal. I did it, as I said, with a very heavy heart, because it's obvious that everyone wants the project quickly. But for the sake of society's resource use -- it's huge sums we're talking about, and it's probably going to be even bigger sums than what's in the proposition -- I think it was the only right thing to go in for that postponement proposal. But there is no doubt that the project is going to create a lot of cheer in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e497	This project has far more far-reaching implications than just for Hedmark. In the beginning, I have to be allowed to say that for someone who comes from the West, where you are used to a county that runs around with a meter stick to measure the height of the fists, it is especially to see that you intend to rage the shoreline at Norway's largest lake with the blessing of the Ministry of the Environment. This is – with the address of the Council of State – no rematch from the Party of Advancement. Let me also make it clear that the postponement proposal does not come from the Progress Party, nor is there any attempt at rematch from the Progress Party. But we believe that this solution, which is being discussed on the railway side, is a poor solution and a solution that does not see the cost implications of it. That's why we want to figure out another solution. We note that the spokesperson of the Workers' Party, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, believes that everything is fully properly investigated. We don't share that perception. We're afraid we don't know what this project actually costs, and now I'm still talking about the railway part of the project. It is good when building a new European road, and it is good when building a new double-track railway. It is even better when it is done in a joint project, but it is a prerequisite that such a joint project has good governance. There's reason to have a lot of opinions about, according to what's come up in the proposition. But it's an even more important assumption that the projects are well done, and that's not the railway project. We understand that in a difficult day, SV needs to find comfort. We record this with an unusually careful intervention by the representative of Langeland, who spoke little about the environmental impact. He talked a little about the turning point for the high-speed rail – about the actual turning point, because I'm afraid that the representative Gundersen is probably right that it will be this double track we're standing with. It's going to be a track where it's not very high speed. If this is what the Council of State has actually said to the media for a moment — and perhaps also meant — that you can build a new double track next to it, it is a point to take with you the drivers when you have to pay for a new European road. And the jam they're going to pay, they're going to pay almost 5 billion. because a search warrant country does not seem to be able to afford to pay for a modern and safe road in Norway. That is why, in the Progress Party, we will have a different funding from that proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e508	The President was willing to give the Council a fresh start. That's also right, by now we could get a new review of the case, but so willing is not the Council of State. I will first refer to the Ingerd Schous presentation of the Right's views. But I have to say that I am very disappointed with the government parties that are not willing to look at the matter again and make sure that quality-proof information comes on the table. On the contrary, they say that they feel confident that the course they have chosen is the best, and that it is well established. But it is in stark contrast to what the representative Langeland from SV said to Today's Business yesterday – namely, that the politicians are deliberately led by the Railway Agency. He agrees with the Right that we should go one more round in this matter. He also states that political towing has provided an alternative that is not in line with Storting’s decision to build only a 250 km/h railway. There is also no transport of goods on the route. As a result, it will be forced on E6 and the environment will be further degraded. It is now clear to the whole world that the Workers' Party and the Centre have a sweeping edge in this matter. The government has tightened up in the construction of the beach zone elsewhere in the country, but in the case of the beach zone along Vorma, from Eidsvoll to Minnesund and along Mjøsa to Tangen, they will build up large parts of the beach zone. The government has also dropped quality assurances, several of which have been submitted. There are so many uncertainties in this case that it would be irresponsible not to re-examine and clarify the issues relating to both the environment, the economy and the other things that the representatives of the Right have been involved in. We now have a historic opportunity to mountain the beach zone along Mjösa and take care of the environment and the unique landscape. Instead, large sections are destroyed, completely destroyed. There will be up to a 15-metre-high and 50-metre-wide landfill in many places that will foundation the double-track railway for slow-driving trains. Where the boulders do not go into the beach zone, the large landfills will be laid out in Vorma and in Mjösa. This will be the biggest single intervention in Norway's history in the beach zone, from Eidsvoll to Tangen. It is an attack on local democracy, on nature, on the environment and on the population. In recent days, as I said, there have been considerable uncertainties and many uncertainties in both the project and the costs. The right considers that the railway construction must not start until the conditions established have been established and clarified and that there is a sound basis for decision-making. But it is clearly going to be downhearted. For me, it may seem that significant performance has been achieved in this matter by the government. It may cost both the environment, the population, the landowners and society expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e519	I had never thought I should hear the representatives Hoksrud, Sortevik and Vossken argue as SVs with a touching concern for the beach zone along Mjösa. The party's argument in this case shows how to take arguments you usually accept, and use them for your own benefit when appropriate. The progress party is usually liberal in beach zone issues, now they're suddenly very busy with the beach zone along Mjøsa. In the case we are dealing with, 8.5 km of beach zone is released. The dovre course is a barrier to the beach zone today, and the new double track is being put further up. There are also other features in relation to the beach zone. Then the representative Hoksrud is very concerned about speed. My question back to the representative is: When was the suddenly Progress Party occupied by speed? It is no more than a few weeks since we dealt with the transport budget. Then the Progress Party and the representative Hoksrud took time to argue against high-speed. When they have to use those arguments for their own benefit, they do it – they turn the cap after the wind. So the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left believe that there have been many new elements in the matter. I can't quite see what new things have come. It has been known for a long time that the KS1 process was not completed in the way we know KVU/KS1 and KS2 processes today. The development of the Dovrebahn was a pilot project on the railway on KVU/KS1. Until I went to the pulpit there was a very big confusion – for me – about what these parties are now going to do, and how the Right is going to vote on this matter – whether they are going to go for the matter that lies, or whether a proposal is being made. When I went up, I saw that a proposal was distributed. I think it is a little unfair that we have now had a long debate where there has been no alternative proposal on the table. It makes it a little difficult when the proposal now emerges far into the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e530	As a representative of Finnmark and with the policy of today's government, it becomes almost as pointless to discuss rail as it is to wait for a fast route to Hamar. Sometimes in politics, there is time for a little reflection. Very often we talk about both predictability and the importance of ensuring processes and decisions. It is difficult to understand the predictability of the policy presented by the Right and Christian People's Party in this matter. To put it bluntly as usual, they follow up the comments of the Progress Party, but, almost as usual, they do not want to go into our proposals, but choose to support the government's proposals. In good Norwegian, this can be called ‘good day, man — axe shaft’, or we should call it a sanctuary. What the government is proposing and going in for is to build a so-called double double track with a limitation of more than 130 to 140 km/h. No one can call this high-speed. But so is the fact that the Progress Party has never been the largest trailer of so-called lightning trains at a speed of 320 km/h, and there are many reasons for this. It is therefore interesting to see that the Progress Party is the only party that speaks of the Eastern line – the only line that could be a solution for future high-speed trains, and the best solution in total. But when the government, with the support of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, wants to build the line on the shoreline of Mjösa, today's treatment leads to the burial of the Lynthog Fantasies, and it is deep for everyone – something certainly both the representative Halleraker and the representative Langeland must be very pleased with. Because when the government says no to the eastern trajectory, they also say no to gliding between South, Middle and North Norway. The lightning train has been buried once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e544	We have received a number of criticisms as proposers because we raise a question about a matter that is quality assured enough for treatment in Stortinget. I'm going to be inclined to understand that, because that's not very often that happens. However, we did not find it appropriate to proceed with the new information we had received in the case. I see it as an important part of the role of the Storting, just to be so aware of all the prerequisites of the decisions we are going to take in this matter, that we can stand up and defend them afterwards. It's actually some of our role as politicians. Then we chose a two-stage solution with which all the parties were familiar – to the representative Kjernli – namely that we would first have the matter back to the committee to re-examine the matter, preferably with a wide consultation. If the majority were not interested in participating, we would ask the government to stop and re-treat parts of this and come back to Stortinget with its renewed assessments. That's exactly what we're doing, so it shouldn't be a very big surprise. So a little bit more formal: Hoksrud is up here with a lot of commitment and says he hasn't seen any suggestions in the hall. No, there should be no written proposal in the Chamber for the examination of the matter, so it took place right after the book. But I'm sure the president knows that well. We are concerned that, in retrospect, we can also see this as an example of major and important projects that have been merged by the vast majority of political Norway. For us, this is a big day because you've seen the road and the railway together. We have to do more of that in the future. The right has supported the government on almost everyone – yes, if it's not 100 pst. – major projects promoted by this government, because we largely agree with the projects being promoted. So this time we've said that we don't feel safe on the premiscuous basis that has been presented, and we have to be allowed to say that. I was also not very convinced of the reasons why she does not have a KS1 assessment. If it is the case that KS1 assessments are selected in several projects at their own discretion, it is actually a rather eye-catching information.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e557	The next speaker is Mr Vedum's representative, but before he gets the floor, for the sake of order, the President will, for the sake of the further debate, already brief on how it would be logical to deal with the proposal that exists, because the President notes that it is becoming a topic in the debate. Such proposal No. 3 now available, it would be natural for that proposal to be dealt with only after the suspension has been discussed. The reason for this is that the proposal is based on the adoption of a decision in point 3 and indicates a follow-up to that decision. So for the Committee's briefing: it will be suggested that the vote be taken, and this will be treated as an additional proposal, because it is a proposal on how to follow up decisions. It is only for information purposes as a basis for the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e562	The proposal now presented by the Right cannot be read in any other way than to postpone the whole development of a new four-field E6 and to postpone or stop the whole development of a new two-track railway. The fact that a representative from Hedmark Right can vote in favour of it is completely incomprehensible to me, when we have had such a combined pressure over so many years to get progress on transportation projects. But when I think a little bit about it, it might be understandable, because there was so much progress there was when the Right had power between 2001 and 2005: nothing. Now, at least, the representative from the Right has the opportunity to contribute to progress, by supporting the government and not its own party, who does not want to progress in transport projects to the inland. So I encourage the representative from Hedmark Right to support the government's vision, not its own party's vision, because his own party has one focus, and it's to have progress in road development and have progress in double-track development. The proposal before us will stop both. If the government is to come back with a new case in an appropriate way, new processes, new investigations must be initiated. Then it's not about finishing four-field E6 in 2014, it's maybe 2020. It's not about having built more double-track railway in 2015, it might never be. So here it's still good that there's a red-green majority that's had some thorough processes, ran thorough investigations. There have been major local debates, but now we are lifting the matter through and ensuring that we get offensive and good railway and road development to our state. I am pleased that the representative Gundersen says that it will bring joy to Hedmark that the red-greens have a majority. I fully agree with him on that, and we have seen that in a lot of road projects. The right will now spend more money on investigations. It'll probably cost a few hundred million. I'd rather spend the hundreds of millions on e.g. to expand rv. 3, which is not so important for Gunnar Gundersen and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e571	About the environmental aspect, I could send an enquiry to the former representative Heidi Sørensen from SV, who said the project had to be stopped. But that was before she became State Secretary in the Ministry of the Environment. I could send an enquiry to the Council of State, Erik Solheim, but he is probably on a trip. But I can send a recommendation to the representative Langeland of the environmental party SV, who spoke little about environmental considerations in his statement, but it is more like reminding representatives Langeland that he is also a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of Storting. Here is a project with a maximum unexplained cost framework that a majority will now adopt. It is a project in which we are shown that the state's own guidelines and frameworks for the quality assurance of large, heavy and costly projects are likely to be slightly sidelined, and this may be followed up by the Storting's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. In any case, in the light of the little experience I have – I have been in the Transport Committee since the last period, i.e. now for six years – I do not remember having such an eye-catchingly poor case basis to make a decision on an investment that can pass 10 billion. kr. The Progress Party is responsible for the use of money. We want to modernise today's railway, but we want to do it with the responsible use of money. Since this has become a central and important issue in this matter with quality assurance reports and procedures, there is reason to recall that these reports do not actually follow matters up to the Stortinget. It has been a matter for the Progress Party for many, many years to demand and demand that the quality assurance reports that are actually being produced follow the projects up to the Scientific Committee of the Storting in dealing with large and important transport projects with large, heavy investments. It's still missing. I am constantly trying to get the Council of State to guarantee that it will happen, and we are still striving to do so in the Advance Party. It's bad reception. So to the final velocity. The Progress Party will modernise today's rail system. One of the paradoxes here is that those who are most eager to have the highest possible speed, now will use an unknown number of billions to build a low-speed line. You could say a lot about it, but at least we have that view, that when you're going to modernise today's rail system, it should have a speed that's well over 200 km/h, so that newly ordered trains can actually run at the speed they're going to drive, and can drive at. This case shows that the majority stabs their heads in the camp. It must certainly be comprehensive in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e587	I might have hoped when I saw the postponement proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, that the president had assessed whether this was not just a rematch on the first postponement proposal. At least that's how we interpret what's there. That's why we're probably going to vote against it as well. We have suggestions that both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left could vote for, if they really meant anything about it, and if they had been busy putting in place the Eastern Line and getting a better train offer. We actually think the most important thing is to get the best offer. We think that the Eastern Line is a much better option than the option you're now adopting, both for the environment, for speed and for everyone who's going to use the railway. When I heard the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, on the speaker's chair boasting of how good the government has been, and of the fact that it's now being built – that's not how it works – it's okay to bring with it the history. When E6 between Gardermoen and Colomoen has a total cost of 8.35 billion. kr, how much are the drivers going to pay on this route? Yes, they have to pay 5.85 billion. kr to build the road – for investment. They have to pay approx. 3.5 B.C.E. NOK in interest expenses. They have to pay 450 million. Just to get on the road – in addition to the cost of the road, and in addition to the other things, a total of 9.8 billion. kr. Instead of boasting of former Ministers of Transport, the current Minister of Transport, the government and all the other Battle Violence Vedum always boasts of, he should actually boast of the drivers. It's the drivers that pay the entire bill and more, it's not the red-green government that pays money. It's the drivers who pay for the fun. Unfortunately, we have a political majority who are not willing to spend more government money, but who are very happy to hire Norwegian drivers with more taxes and more extra tax in the form of tolls. I had actually hoped that the Council of State would have been clearer about this with the quality assurance report, because it is a paradox that a project that is therefore costing less than 7 billion kroner. Now it's over 10 billion. NOK – we do not know the final sum of the project we are adopting today. This is serious, but at least it gives a good signal to the Advancement Party. That means it's not going to be on money, because the government has enough of it, and it's not that dangerous to ensure the quality of the projects. We're busy doing things faster. Therefore, I don't understand why you have spent so much time investigating and doing this back and forth, because the quality assurance is not very important anymore. It is important to initiate the projects. We very much agree with that, but we also think it is important to look after taxpayers' money. So we want to shrink in – which we come back to a little later today – and we want to make sure that it is also quality assured, so that taxpayers know what they pay for, and get a cheaper bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e600	The railway station is now planning the route between Eidsvoll and Minnesund. The railway will pass straight through a protected area along Vorma. The politicians in Eidsvoll now say that they did not understand what they said yes to when the main route on the Eidsvoll–Minnesund route was adopted by the local government in 2009. In the municipal sub-plan, you had a 50-metre sloop to each side of the line that goes partly on today's line. But what does the Railway Agency do? Well, they choose to go east and end up in Vorma with a massive rocking. Now both the Workers' Party and the Right in Eidsvoll say that if the local government now rejects the regulation proposed by the Railway Agency over the New Year, the state must regulate. It's a very clear message to the government. The environment along Vorma, from Eidsvoll to Minnesund, is very vulnerable, and it is protected. I would strongly encourage the Council of State and the Government to at least ensure that the railway route from Minnesund to Eidsvoll takes account of the protected areas, the environment, the local population and local democracy. I myself live on Minnesund, I live in the middle of this area where it is now to be built. I am, in fact, deeply concerned about what is happening now on behalf of future generations. As I said, I would encourage the Council of State to now go in and look at this distance, from Minnesund to Eidsvoll. Finally, it is in the setting, as the rapporteur took up, a train station – a train stop – on Minnesund. There has been a lot of work both from the local government in Eidsvoll and from the local population. It will be a sensible project, both from an environmental point of view and from a point of view of accessibility, by allowing people to use the train in front of the car. I don't see the idea that the government parties say this must be followed closely, and that a new station must be assessed when the population base so warrants. I think it's important now for two reasons that this train station is being built at the same time as the railway project. First of all, it means an important infrastructure to get people to move to Minnesund, we want more people to live there, and second, I think it would be cost-effective to take this expansion at the same time as the railway is being built.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e615	Road and rail projects in Norway are not easy. The last example comes from the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli, where the local politicians in her municipality now regret the decision they have made, and would like to have a different solution from that on which the case was sent here. We could have framed a number of issues where there are new local politicians, new costs, local government, who would like to have a slightly different solution than what was previously agreed on and which is now in the plan. It won't be easy if we keep taking fights in all things and taking along all the recordings that all the action groups or whoever it might be, come along with. In fact, sometimes you just have to cut through and finish a case. Map to the representatives of Gundersen and Vosskensen, who note that it is sized to 250 km/h. I made it clear in my report that the line south of Langset and north of Kleverud will be re-assessed with a view to increasing the speed to 250 km/h – just so I have said it. So, to the debate on the postponement of the proposal by the Progress Party. If you postpone one part of the project, you postpone the entire project, because of course you lose the synergies, and you have to start new planning processes. You can't just take one now and separate from the other. So to the suggestion that appeared a few minutes ago. That's interesting. Here, therefore, the Right Christian People's Party and the Left ask for the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify all objections and allegations raised about the case and the procedure so that a reluctance process can be pursued.’ This has been going on for over ten years. And then you have to go through all the objections and statements that have been made in this case! Then we cannot dream of getting the matter back in this period at least. This increase is not going to be able to deal with this matter if we are going to support the proposal that is now on the table. It'll take years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e633	I would like to remind the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, of what both the representative, Mr Halleraker and I ourselves have said. It's with a heavy heart I'm voting for. The representative Halleraker has also underlined how special it is for the Right not to go in for immediate support for such a project. I don't think that has happened – if something is going on in the right direction, it's the development of infrastructure. I have to say – customs and clothes are not a parliamentary expression – that when you say nothing happened under the bourgeois government, it is quite special. Then the OPS concept was created, which would have been very good for infrastructure development, and Nybakk – Klöfta was adopted. 2nd@item: inlistbox It is completely central to large parts of Hedmark and should have been completed for Kongswinger. We've had a lot of discussions about that before. I am concerned that the decisions and assumptions of the Storting should be respected, and I am concerned that society's resource use should be efficient and rational. Then I do not understand that the government can present a project that has created so much debate after the proposition came to Stortinget. I'm not reassured by what you say about the lack of execution of the KS1. The representative of Sønsterud insists that they have written a majority comment that the speed is going up to 250 km/h. Then there are guaranteed cost excesses, if that happens. Otherwise, I'll assume that when you've been planning something for ten years, you would have managed to get it into the project that's here. So it has to be a hidden costorientation already. Then I'd like to point out what the department itself said at a review around the millennia: «A review of 11 specific projects showed that unsatisfactory project results were very often due to insufficient work being done in the early stages of the projects.» So you say about KS1 that for «all projects shall be listed specifying how to reduce costs if the established cost framework is found not to be sufficient. In addition, the cost framework must include a provision to cover unforeseen costs.’;» Finally, they say: ‘The starting point for KS1 is to ensure that the choice of concepts is subject to real political governance.’ As a member of the Financial Committee, I'm actually concerned that all of this is going to be satisfied. And to everyone else who also sits and waits for projects: one should be extremely concerned that the projects that are adopted do not get cost excesses, because then it becomes less for other things. It's actually pretty serious things we're discussing when we're talking about projects up to 10 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e662	It is just nonsense that you cannot run through the road project even if you choose the proposals of the Progress Party. The savings from having a common project are much lower than the risk of large cost gaps. We've already seen that. But I record that the Council of State has been in Stortinget today and guaranteed that the cost estimates that are now there are going to end with that. That's interesting, and we'll notice the reply from the Council of State to the representative of Sortevik. So it's a little special when the representative, Sjøli from the Right, argues for the proposal of the Progress Party, but will nevertheless vote against it. I had hoped that when you argue for something, you would also vote for it when there is a proposal there. Unlike the Right, who just wants to send everything back, you can go in for the Eastern line, as it is a large majority for local, and as many others want to get in place. So I really hope now that Right turns and remembers and votes for the proposal they really agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e669	I record that the representative Langeland and SV did not get an impact on the government either in terms of the speed gain in this case or in terms of the environmental assessment. This case, which is currently under consideration, runs a high-speed train between Oslo and Lillehammer. There are many places there will be exceptions for 250 km/h. I'm happy in trains, and I'm happy in double tracks too, but there's bounds for double tracks times two up. It's unrealistic. If we put the railway track up now, we put it the way it's sketched by the government, and now it looks like it's majority. But we're recording that SV has not won out. To the representatives of Hoksrud and the Progress Party, I would like to say that, when we do not agree with the proposal that the Progress Party has made, it is because we want to be careful, we want to be real, we want to be thorough, and we want it to be a quality assurance both when assessing the Eastern Trasé elections and when assessing the Western – what is now in the Dovrebanen trajectory, that is, the proposal promoted by the government. The proposal of the Progress Party is based on an eastern trajectory without any reservations, and we cannot accept that kind of treatment. We have proposed that the matter be referred back to the Committee. The Progress Party has chosen not to support it. We have now made a proposal – which will be an alternative to paragraph 3 – where we will actually be able to highlight all sides, including what has been presented by the government, and also all the information that has emerged afterwards. There is a new information in Today's Business today, namely that the Railway Agency assessed the eastern trajectory to be cheaper and faster. It's not mentioned in the proposition, but it's a very clear and new information. I asked the Council of State a question on Wednesday, December 7. That's not answered. More than six working days ago, and it's about something important – which is related to today's information in Today's Business – namely that the Railway Agency has assessed the eastern trajectory to be cheaper and faster. The costs of the Eidsvoll-Sørli line that have now been selected have now risen to 10 billion. kr. The initial estimate in 2008 was 6.9 billion. kr. Today's Economy refers to December 6th, the 10th anniversary of the Railway Agency. kr as an old estimate of costs. It signals that there are further price increases in this case. When the Council of State has not responded in writing to this, I in fact ask her to answer this in the Chamber today. Thus, the railway works do not have an overview of the total investment costs. There is also a cost explosion in this case that is missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e685	Let me bring you a little sigh from the outside. I'm not a member of the Transport and Communications Committee, but I'm asking a lot of questions about the procedure in this committee. The fact is that the opposition parties have a majority in the committee, and thus the same majority do not use the option during committee procedure to present the necessary proposals in this case. I see that the Progress Party has followed up well in relation to the objections raised during this process, but that the Right and Christian People's Party is not using the committee procedure for information that has been well known for a long time, I wonder. In this case, the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has been a moving target. She first went out on two pages in the Austrian magazine with all possible arguments long before the case was given and said that the matter had to be postponed. The next day the same representative came in the same newspaper and said: No, however, the right will not go for a postponement. And then we have this seance that we have here today. This policy is not worthy of policy, nor is it worthy of the local population, who have been waiting for these pathways for a long time. The most interesting thing that has been said in this debate so far is that the State Council, Kleppa, said in a line change – I believe – that she will not exclude her own eastern high-speed rhinestone at a later stage. Then I'll ask you what kind of quality assurances it is that we're involved in this society. Norway should have all the possibilities to ensure the quality of all aspects of such a project, with the expertise we have, for example. from the base, with large, heavy investment projects. What will it mean for this community to get another trajectory through the municipality with those security zones etc. which we know a high-speed path will have? This thing we have to learn a lot from. When you get different cost estimates from different actors, it's hard for a politician to know what's really right. But that we're good at quality assurance, we can't say after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e696	The representative, Sonja Irene Sjøli, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e699	This force-salve from Kielland Asmyhr falls on his own unreasonableness. The right proposed to postpone the case until we received an answer to some questions from the Council of State. We got that. They were added to the setting, and we saw no reason to postpone. But later, after the suspension was given, new information has come up that we have promoted the proposal that we have made today. Then I heard the representative Sønsterud from the Workers' Party almost contemptuously and disrespectfully punished local politicians from the Workers' Party regarding the proposal of the Railway Agency for a trajectory between Eidsvoll and Minnesund. It is the Workers' Party that has expressed itself most strongly in this matter – with the support of the Right – and the proposal of the Railway Agency has become quite different from what it was when the Municipal Council gave its approval in 2009. So if the Workers' Party does not respect local democracy, I hope at least that the Council of State and the Central Party have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e708	The representative Arne Sortevik has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e711	It was set up in the Committee a week or so ago. In the comments, the Right expresses a certain skepticism, a certain concern, but it is only after release that the Right has become seriously concerned. Take responsibility, is my call – supported proposals by the Progress Party. Quality assurance has been introduced to reduce project uncertainties and risks, and the background was, inter alia, heavy exceedances on large, heavy transport projects. Now we have the State Council's guarantee that this project will not crack. We have the State Council's guarantee that the costs of this project will not crack. The government is now building a low-speed train line. The belief in their own high-speed project was demonstrated – it cannot be very large. We share that scepticism, but we want a modern version of today's railway, so that newly purchased trains can at least run at the speed they're supposed to be able to drive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e718	Let me first of all say to Arne Sortevik that rematch was probably not the right expression for the Progress Party's announcement of the view on lightning today. But the rematch is linked to the following: the Hausten 2008 came after extensive processes closer to clarifications regarding where the line was going. In spring 2009, this was finally determined and followed up in the national transport plan, and it was confirmed by the Stortinget in spring 2009. This means that objections were assessed in advance. That means that claims were investigated. When I used the expression "a turn of events", it was related to some of the same claims that have now appeared again, and they were already evaluated a few years ago. I am so happy because today, after these two years, we are in a different situation than we were in 2009. The punctuality on the railway is much better, we're planning for intercity, we're about to get one out of the way, and there are more and more people taking the train. So to camp. ‘Leire’ is a familiar cover for those who work on this trail along Mjøsa, where we have been in the planning process, and where we are involved, with professionals. Cost estimate: I have nothing new to report about it today, but I would like to refer to page 3 of the proposal that both makes sense for the proposal, which underlines that it is in line with the external quality assurance proposal, and that also leads to what we call an extended quality assurance of the project. At high speed: what has been presented so far in the highcolor aspect ratio is a possible tracer. Then the costs come, then the political processes come, and then any proposals come in the big news in 2013. That's why I think of it this way. Yes, it is possible to choose today. Should we postpone this project further? That's what's going on. It's going to start over, but it's a little bit forward. And I'm glad that the plural does not support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e733	It was the representative of Kielland Asmyhr who made me speak. He may hardly have read our comments in the matter. We have expressed great concern about this project, unfortunately, because we have also said in the case that we are very pleased that we have finally come to a project in Norway, a large project, where you coordinate the railway and road. We agree with the government that this is a very good step forward. But we have expressed concern as a result of everything that has come up in the wake of the handling of the matter. The information that came out after the release – I will clarify once again: after the release – was what led us to throw this matter into a different understanding, namely that we should have taken a little better time than we did in the committee. The Council of State is standing here saying that this matter has been worked on for ten years, so now there was no room for more postponement! At least the Storting has not worked on the matter for ten years. We have had an express handling of this matter after we got it from the government – too quickly, clearly. That's what's wrong with this case. We should have given ourselves a little bit better time. That's what I said in my post when we started the meeting today, that we should have done. At least we had felt quite confident that we had got the government's view of all the issues that have been raised and that would give us a safe and good decision. But it has been rejected by the majority. That is why we are promoting an alternative proposal, in which we are asking the government to look through this after a decision has been taken. Then again to the Progress Party. I have to say that I'm being given a little bit. Here are several of the speakers of the Progress Party with great bravour and criticise the Right that we did not use the majority in the Committee to stop the matter. The same gentlemen stand on this pulpit and criticize us for wanting it today, eight days later. Where in the world is the logic of such thinking? If there's one thing we're going to take with us further from the consideration of this matter, it's that the committee has to give itself better time in matters that come from the government, and don't let itself be pushed to such quick treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e747	The entries from the Halleraker representative cannot be unanswered. I have been following this case for very many years, both as a county representative in Akershus and since 2005 as a staging representative from Akershus, and I have been well acquainted with a lot of, almost all, these arguments all the time. So I am surprised that a parliamentarian as experienced as Mr Halleraker does not understand the need to use the possibilities offered by the committee procedure to make the necessary proposals. I think that's weird. That is what I have allowed myself to point out when I refer to the fact that, in the Committee's observations, the Progress Party has made the necessary proposals. I think it is nice that the Right and an experienced parliamentarian like the representative Halleraker do not see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e754	There were three questions I didn't get time for in my previous post. The one was Sonja Sjøli and the underlining of Langset. It has to be followed up. We will look closely at how we can follow up on what has been said both from her and from the committee and in several other requests in the past. So to the representative Ingerd Schou and her question no. 406. It's supposed to be black. But then let me, as she asked, also answer here from the pulpit that the cost size was 10 billion. 2008-kroner for Eidsvoll–Sørli–Hamar. It is from the Railway Agency’s original Eidsvoll-Hamar release, which was launched in 2004 and updated in 2007/2008. I Prop. 13 S, which we are dealing with today, is therefore presented a quality governance framework for Langset-Kleverud of 4.2 billion. 2011-kronor. It corresponds to a cost increase, including an increase in prices, of about 40 pst. from the Railway Agency's original statement. The question is, why? It is precisely because one has taken care of local requests that have come, taking into account both increased tunnel section and more stringent requirements for escape and safety in tunnels. Then there are no updated cost estimates for the whole route Eidsvoll–Sørli at this time. This is because the costs and concept of the railway works are to be assessed more closely in their ongoing work on the IC area concept selection. The costs will depend on the tunnel section, route, speed standard and the need for, not least, remedial measures on different sections of the road. I promise that it will be well distributed in the next national transport plan, for 2014-2023. So let me say in the end: now the first offer is bright, with deadline 5 February. That means there's a lot of joy waiting here. But then, of course, this project is followed closely, even when costs are involved. On page 3 of the proposal, the quality assurance indicator points to, and the Ministry will continue to improve the management of the project in order to limit the uncertainty of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e765	It is not from a new date that concerns have been expressed by the Right for the project. In the setting, it is said in a note where the Right is also included: ‘This majority has been signalled that additional billion-class cost increases could occur in the foundation of the coastal zone and will at the same time indicate that the preferred railway station parcels require a future repair of 3 billion. crowns of the bottleneck between Eidsvoll and Venjar.» It is such that almost all of the information we had received when this case was being dealt with. We also see that the matter has been going on for ten years, and the right here in this room claims that it is the development of the last eight days that is crucial for the choice we are going to make. Actually, I don't believe it. What the right is doing is supporting an eastern trajectory in its comments, while at the same time supporting the government's proposal. There are limits to how long self-appointed sanctuaries can last in politics. Sometimes it is also necessary to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e777	To the representative Halleraker: I am somewhat surprised when I think I hear some undertones of criticism of the treatment in the committee, especially with regard to the timetable. It was said that the matter was dealt with at express speed. I only have two years of experience from the committee. Halleraker has much longer experience than I have. But I want to say that from what I've learned over the two years I've been there, it was well added here to a quite normal schedule. In the course of the case, no one at any time asked for a better time. It was only yesterday afternoon – yesterday evening – long after the matter was given, that I was told about the postponement proposal that the Right had been promoted here earlier today, together with, among others. Christian People's Party. I just want to stress that this case has not been subjected to any quick-working way of dealing with a matter. So a little visit to Sonja Sjouli: I can reassure Sonja Sjouli that I am in favour of local democracy. But it surprises me a little bit in these kinds of cases, because the right is really among those who want us to deal with the matter a lot faster, that the state should run more of the processes, and is very excited that we are going down in all the processes where the local is involved. I think that was also a bit surprising in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e787	Once again, we're shown how far there is between the opposition parties on the transport area. I want to say that here we see an opposition that is not just disagreeable with itself, but in total resolution. We have an opposition party that believes that they are informed about the matter, and we have another opposition party that believes that there is a total lack of knowledge about the matter. There is a complete disagreement about the solution. We have an opposition party, the Progress Party, which is so powerful that here you want to go for an alternative that we don't know the consequences of adopting, don't know the extent and don't know what will cost, and we have another opposition party, the Right, that suffers from total refusal of decision at the opposite end, and that wants a postponement. I have to agree with Bård Hoksrud on one point. For me, it seems more and more, as I have followed the debate, as if right here is trying to secure a back cover, because it is primarily about the internal disagreement with yourself. I have to say that after listening to the representatives of Sjøli, Gundersen and Schou, I am becoming more and more confused as to what the Right really means in this matter, what kind of trasé elections do you want, what kind of process do you want, and how do you care for local democracy? I experience it so that all the parties in this room, not least the Right, have demanded that we have a faster progress in the field of transport. That means that we should listen to local democracy, but at the end of the day, there are some people who have to make decisions, and so we are sitting in this room. Yes, we have to listen to local democracy, but in things like this how so many are involved, there will often be local disagreement about the decisions we end up with. Then it's about standing by the decisions we're making, and not, as I feel right is doing here, sending an incredible number of different signals and trying to make sure you say you're going to have a postponement. If the Stortinge were to adopt the proposal presented today by the Right, which I believe is actually a postponement proposal, it would have major consequences. This will not cause the matter to come back to the committee and we can examine it during the spring. This will mean that we have to re-take the whole process. As the Minister explained, tenders are already out. It will lead to a year's postponement of the case. We do not want that. I believe that the matter has been thoroughly clarified and that we can therefore take the decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e800	The representative Ingerd Schou has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e803	I record that the government party SV disagrees with the rest of the government about the solutions, and that you have to go for an alternative you really don't want to go for. So that's the way the challenges lie in the government parties as well. I thank the Council of State for the answer. It came in at 0 p.m. 10.38, while I was standing here last, so we haven't pulled over to look at it, so I don't get it on the phone. It was okay that the Council of State actually presented it, well overtime in relation to what is the deadline for replying. Today's industry today shows that Deutsche Bahn's proposal for an eastern trasé is cheaper than the solution that the government will now implement. It shows a report that the Railway Agency kept secret until yesterday. I think transparency would have been wise in this matter, and I remind you that an overall opposition has asked for input from external actors in this matter. It is because we experience that, along the way in the case, but also in retrospect, information we have not known about has been information.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e812	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e815	We're starting to go in for landing here. I have to say to Fredriksen that we are not postponing the matter as such – at least not as much as the Progress Party does with its proposal – but we want a more thorough assessment. To the Bear Face: I fully agree with the heart, and if we agree on that, we have come a long way. We want faster progress through management in large-scale transport. Let's work out solutions together so that we can do it. Then she raises questions about what signal the Right sends from her many representatives who have had the word. Let me clarify what's the Right Main signal, there's no doubt about it. We are not behind the government's treatment of this matter, after what has come to light, and we have tried to do so in two different ways by getting more knowledge. That's why we vote the way we do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e824	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e827	Yes, in fact, our proposal will delay the railway for some time. Nor is it the case that you do not have investigations in the area. You have. But the Right's proposal will postpone the whole case, also E6. When the representative Schou is up and says that this is new information, it is actually that the Committee has been fully aware – it is also in the form of a note – that it would be more reasonable to be able to expand the eastern route with reference to Deutsche Bahn's proposal. This is not something that has emerged in the debate today. That's something the committee has known about when it was being discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e832	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1821]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e848	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e857	North-Jearen is a strong growth area with enormous traffic challenges because of its very high image density. Prognosis and various projects under planning or preparation mean that the growth in passenger car traffic seems to increase considerably more. Allerie no there are large cows in some areas on the Sandnes–Stavanger motorway. The cars run for 5 km per hour on a road with a speed limit of 90 km per hour. This applies both in the Forus area and in the Stavanger area. Politicians in the Stavanger area have shown little willingness to do so through restrictive measures. It may have its reasons, but one of the main conclusions of the great majority of the Stortinget in this case is that one wants Stavanger to fill up, like Trondheim, by applying for money in the form of reward for increased public transport, as long as one then does something to reduce car traffic in the area. That says all games, except for the Advance Party, in the option. It is a concrete follow-up to the climate agreement, on which all the parties have signed, except for the Progress Party. So here, right and all the other parties, including SV, are clear that now the North-Jear must join forces with the leader of the county in the head, along with the local spokesmen, says the committee. Then it's clear that if one gets to this, it'll have great benefits when it's related to possible follow-up versus the climate deal. One will also be able to make this quite specific in relation to the coming climate communication. Then it's very important to clarify as the government has now done, that one should take two thirds of the emissions in Norway. But there are also reasons for health policy to reduce car traffic. Ein knows that in Bergen e.g. is the big problem when it's winter. It's also in Stavanger, not least in the Kannik area, where there's actually a great health hazard when it's called – people get sick from going out in traffic. So here it's absolutely necessary to make local grip. SV has been orbiting this area since 1993. It has been distributed and is still being distributed, and there was a broad majority that eventually, at the beginning of the 21st century, concluded that this was a good idea. Then the Workers' Party began to wing locally. I've often been on the late state spokesman Tom Tvedt's office because I wanted a bigger activity, kneading up to the town track on the North Jären, from the county council's side. I was constantly in contact with the county manager and the manager of the relationship to ensure that this would be followed up in a proper way. Then it turns out – and I have to say disappoints SV – that three days before the election in the fall, the Labour Party turned with the County Spokesman at the head of the city track question. They'd figure out this busway system. When it comes to this point, a joint committee, minus the Progress Party, says that one hopes that one from the North Year's side will now come back when it comes to the progress of this, so that one gets a clarification of what is now the will of the North Year. A joint committee further states that the State is of course willing to contribute when it comes to such urban packages, including urban-rail-related packages. This has been illustrated by the government of the Red-Green Government in the draft budget by the fact that one has allowed six million. NOK once and SEK 0.5 million. kr for the planning of the city track on the North Jären. The majority, minus the Progress Party, are quite clear that one goes in to extend this package by five years, but one has been clear that North-Jear has to step up in terms of the challenges you face in the traffic sector, and make sure that there are fewer cars on the roads, and that more travel collectively. This can help the state to ensure that the North-Jear is properly searched in relation to what is agreed in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e874	I'm tempted to say as an entrance here that it's rather that the government should step up a little in terms of contributing to the public transport in the big cities. This case concerns the extension of an additional transport tax scheme for Northern Ireland. The government is obvious for such extra taxes — and an extension of such extra taxes — and the Right and Christian People's Party is obviously also for such extra taxes and for the extension of the collection of such extra taxes. It's the Progress Party against it. For the inhabitants of this area, it will total over 5 billion between 1998 and 2015. 2011-kronor. We in the Progress Party are working to reduce, not increase, taxes. The Progress Party believes that the State should finance road construction. We believe that oil money should be used for infrastructure, road and rail. The Progress Party is opposed to regional bombings to finance transport systems involving both state, county and municipal projects and actions. We believe that the State should – and should – take a much greater responsibility for a comprehensive transport system in the largest cities. The Stavanger region is one of these urban areas. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter. We reject extended toll use, and we want a separate case on the implementation of national road projects in the area based on state funding. Otherwise, I refer you to our comments on the matter. However, I would like to say a few words about the so-called reward scheme that the government is using to allocate state collective funds. The Party wishes State non-discrimination schemes based on transport needs, not based on specific transport mode and restriction requirements. In our alternative proposal for the 2012 state budget, we added 500 million. SEK for the extra government purchase of public transport services in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. For Stavanger-Sandnes this would be $65 billion. kr annually. Better solutions are needed for public transport in metropolitan areas. The need for public transport must be met both through road-based and rail-based solutions. In particular, we would point out that the so-called urban railways, modern trams, which cannot be connected to a national railway network, in the opinion of the Progress Party, are a less suitable collective solution. In the largest Norwegian cities, modern, safe and environmentally friendly roads are still needed to ensure good transport solutions, including bus-based public transport. The Progress Party believes that the State must take far more responsibility for the financing of public transport in the major cities. Today, the regime of the government receives special treatment from Oslo through extensive State purchases of passenger transport by rail, while the other major cities, which have much less developed railways, receive similar lower government purchases of public transport. The Party considers that the purchase by the State of passenger transport services in the largest cities must be carried out independently of the means of transport. Then I've saved some time. After the long debate we had in the first case, it might be good to bring you on a Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e893	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e896	I can provide an answer to the rhetorical question from the representative Arne Sortevik. Yes, the Christian People's Party is contributing to a financing solution here that can provide a better path. Local politicians also say a clear yes; this is what they want. That's why the Christian People's Party is setting up. There is an unaltered tariff level underlying this extension. As the case spokesman also said, this is one of the strongest areas of growth in the whole country. The large region around Stavanger is now relatively the region that grew most. That is why I thought it important to point out what the case spokesperson said about the city track. The Committee expects progress to be made locally, regionally, but it is particularly important for us to say that there are expectations that the State too will contribute, because without State contributions it will be very difficult to raise large urban railway projects, including the one that will be in the future. in Stavanger, to which it is absolutely necessary to obtain. I would also like to comment that a deposit of funds to the Eiganes tunnel, for cross-repair in the Smæmvågen, among others. walking and cycling roads. The priorities here will be set in the annual budget appropriations. What I want to say is that walking and cycling roads must be given priority in this work. So the representative said the Bjørnflate is a big crack in the opposition. Now this is not a direct part of this matter, but I want to tell the representative Bjørnflaten that the word 'Ryfast' is included in the setting here. It will also be a challenge for the representative of Bjørnflaten, I believe, to achieve full agreement between the representative Hallgeir Langeland and the government council of Meltveit Kleppa in that very matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e907	The decision taken today by the Stortinget in this matter is in line with the decision of the Rogaland County Council from December 2010 on the extension for up to five years, the unchanged tariff level and the change in the maximum discount rate of 40-20 pst. for subscribers. The aim is to improve traffic conditions in the north of Jären, an area that is under heavy pressure both in terms of traffic and population. The North-Jären Package is a comprehensive plan and a financing framework for major transport measures on the North-Jären, where the municipalities, Rogaland County Council and the State cooperate closely. Then we're working on an Iron Package 2. It was not advisable to have her ready by the end of 2011. Project included in this package is the E39 Tunnel of Ownership, Cross-Repair, etc. 510 Swimming wave west including Airport Road, e.g. 44 Forus-Gausel – it is collective – fv. 505 Skjærveland-Foss/Eikeland, E39 Sandved-Hove, traffic management measures, i.e. lighting regulation to ensure better access conditions for public transport in the Forus area, and, as requested here, pedestrian and cycle roads. So if the Storting joins a new traffic payment scheme through Järenpakte 2 when it is submitted, and it happens within five years, the new scheme will replace the scheme that is now proposed to extend. I'm assuming that it won't be five years before that package is released. What is the case is that a concept evaluation is carried out, and – as the case-leader pointed out – an important question in that work is the best way to close the collective transport service. Is it the city track, are there different bus solutions that will provide the best supply? So there will be the concept evaluation and external quality assurance as a central premise for the continuation of the North-Jearen package in Järenpacke 2. I have noticed that the committee is looking forward to these clarifications. I can also say that both from the department's side and not least from the population that is involved. So to the reward scheme. There are certain premises linked to it, such as the strengthening of collective provision, which we in Rogaland have, after all, been better and better at, but on which there are still important clarifications. In addition, there are also restrictive measures in relation to car traffic as a premise. So far, the county council of the Nord-Jären area has been given a share in some funds through an agreement for one year at a time. I would like to thank the Stortinget for the speed with which this matter has been presented by the Committee and discussed here. That's what will give you the possibility of a coherent collection of funds. So it's like that, as it's emphasized, that it also gives the possibility to collect tolls for the Owner's Tunnel. This is what Stortinget will get as a matter of its own. Both the Eigenestunnel and Ryfast are among the individual projects mentioned in the budget, with possible start-up in 2012. But we'll come back to both of them in our own processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e926	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e929	The state council's Christmas greeting to the drivers in this and the previous case is a tax tightening of 7.5 billion. kr – 5 br. DKK in the previous case and NOK 2,5 billion. kr in this case. Will the Council of State ensure that the Storting better than now has an overview of the extent of toll use, and also more regularly than now and more clearly than now, of the use of tolls? That's the one. The second is: the Council of State has pointed out how much Oslo as a city and county gets for the carriage of passengers by train. In relation to the country's approach to collective passenger transport in the other major cities, there is a great skepticism. Will the Council of State take a closer look at this bias, so that the other major cities receive better support from the State for public transport, regardless of whether they have rail or not, and without imposing specific conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e936	This case is one of a number of examples of local initiatives being taken in collaboration with other sources of funding, including toll collection, in order to resolve road-related situations. In this case, reference is made to the decision of the individual municipality and to the decision of the county council on a further application in order to have the possibility of this collection. There is something we do for both in individual matters and in annual budgets. So to question number. 2nd@item: inlistbox Now, Sortevik can look forward to the submission of the national transport plan. This will be an important theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e943	Yes, then, we work quickly with matters, as the Council of State says – when we feel safe with them, with reference to the previous case. This is a road and collective thing that we're used to, and maybe it's just that there are road projects that are dominant here, that make us feel safe. We've seen that before that tends to go reasonably well. My question goes on the precisely Eiganes tunnel as the largest single project in the package, and also Ryfast's connection to the Eiganes tunnel. When can the Storting expect the Ryfast and Eiganes tunnel to be treated? And will they come in the same proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e951	In the two cases, I will be allowed to show what is in the budget proposal, that next year we both intend to open eight major road projects and to facilitate ten, partly financed by tolls, and further eight. But when each of them is submitted to Stortinget, they are provided when all clarifications are made. I'll be allowed to come back to a more precise time. So I'll use the opportunity to say to both Halleraker and Sortevik: they can rejoice in the spring and the presentation of a new national transport plan. To Sortevik, I should have stressed that one important theme is to increase the state co-financing of the collective challenges in our big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e958	We are slipping to spring also in the Christian People's Party, even though we are uncertain at national transport level. What we're recording is that there are a lot of good, big projects going on in Rogaland, without us taking the final position on them. To name two of them, Rogfast and Ryfast, they're almost – well, Ryfast is probably 100 pst. financed by tolls. My question is, how do they line up the projects, and they want to push other projects, when they're almost 100 pst. toll-financed and covered by users? How do the Councils assess this? When there is such a high property, how are these projects set up against any other project?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e963	Now, for the sake of order, I must stress when it comes to spring, that my wish is not just that the etats make their proposal when it comes to a new national transport plan as the basis for further discussions with the counties, etc. Spring 2013 will be a no less ‘higher’ when the Stortinget will have the opportunity to debate a new national transport plan here. It is good that Rogaland is planning projects that will bind both states and countries better together. I'm not going to advance the processes that are going to go here in this room on it, I've learned that it's dangerous to advance too much -- dangerous might be a little strong word, but we shouldn't. But let me say, a project with a large toll part is more secure in a queue than the projects that depend heavily on government resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e970	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e975	It became necessary to take a little more round, but I hope he will be short. For example: The chairperson of the Transport Committee on this subject with State contributions: Almost all the parties are some of them that we need to look at more closely. But I also want to say that when it applies to the North-Jear, we have used approximately. Three billion. kr on double tracks and freight terminals, and so we have also shown our will from the Stortinget in the case of the city track, which the Christian People's Party is pristine to get on rails. So we've spent 6.5 million. kr also to give a signal to local politicians that we want from Stortinget's side, including the Christian People's Party, to move forward on that environmental track. It's very good, I think, that the leader of the Christian People's Party, the leader of the Transport Committee, is quite clear from the point of view of the case, that he also believes, as SV, that a city railway will be very favourable in order to solve the major traffic challenges that are on the North-Jear. So I appreciate it. The problem with the things she's doing today is just getting her on the track, after the Workers' Party found out that they really didn't know exactly what they meant about the city track anymore. After the heads of state, former heads of state, and others spoke with others, among other things. they were signed for this, and all of a sudden they were three days before the selection. It was a wonderful performance, and it led to the gathering of the crowd we had for the city track, becoming weak. So now we from the Storing really wonder what's going to happen. So I'm going to say that when there are two other questions that Hareide raises, Ryfast and Owners, there may be some problems relating to the last case. Although the Council of State now has a T-shirt with No to Ryfast on it, it is not enough for it to be overinterpreted as necessary. But there's a separate case about this, and we have written it, and then there's another one that comes back to the Eiganes case at a later time, which we have written in the setting, but which was also clarified by the Council of State from the Spokesman's office. Then I totally agree with the Christian People's Party when it comes to cycling. We know that in this package there may be a tribal road between Sandnes and Stavanger with a tunnel. It's a very exciting project, which SV fully supports. So I would just like to remind the representative of the Christian People's Party, the leader of the Christian People's Party, that, in connection with the high-speed distribution, we also work out intercity in the West, Bergen-Haugesund- Stord, not within Bømlo, but at least we have a train connection in the West during the trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e988	I have to take the floor to make it clear that there are people from Rogaland who have a different view than the representative of Langeland and the government council of Meltveit Kleppa, because it is not that there is a great demand in Rogaland for tolls. There is no one who sees the tolling on the North-Jear as a value in itself. These toll stations are a symbol of political paralysis in the government and in the majority of the population, because one cannot meet the needs of one for transport and roads on the part of the authorities, despite the responsibility of the authorities. The local initiatives, which Meltveit Kleppa gives the impression that this is, are a symbol that the government has not done its job. In practice, there is a blackmail government council when she says that if you have toll financing securely anchored, you are safer on the fridge than if you don't have it. Yes, for anyone who wants something in this community, it's a signal that if you don't do what the government says, and introduces tolls, you won't be given priority. Then it is to say that this is a local initiative and wish, as relevant as saying that it is a quality sign for Norwegian health care that people sign private health insurance. It is also a symbol that the government is not doing its job in health policy. It is not a quality argument in itself to have a private health insurance. No one uses it as a status symbol, but they do it because they see that their life and their time are worth more than the effort the government makes to make them healthy if they get sick. I think it's a bit tragic that Rogaland, with a blue majority on the big bench, has a bright red politician trying to express what are good solutions for our county. He does not represent the solutions that the county needs. He's now lashed away almost eight years on solutions that the county should not have, but where we don't get the alternatives in place either. I want to pay tribute to the Workers' Party for having turned the city railway case around and for seeing what is reasonable use of money. They should not be told, they should be praised for being solution oriented and throwing away airlocks. There's no lightning Rogaland needs to get people out of line, in and out of Stavanger town every day. Lightning is a substitute for people going to the airport at the Sun, not for people going to work in the center. We should also take that on board when we discuss this. Rogaland is a growing group. We have a business that's on, that's on, that's on, that's on, that's on, that's on, that's on, that's on, that's on, that's on, that's on, that's the oil industry that's hugely lucrative for the country. Our engineers don't get any more productive because they have to sit in line for an extra hour every day because you can't solve these challenges. We've spread settlements in the county. We can't have the same tram approach or bus approach that you have in Oslo, and that works in Oslo, simply because the housing pattern is different. We have to take that over. When we build roads, we have to build them with the capacity to get away from the traffic, not as it is done on the Solas split, by building two-field road where it should have been four-fielded, to save 10 pst. of the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1005	Transport debates can be used for a lot. This time, health policy is coming in from Solvik-Olsen. But until what he spent most of his post on, namely this with tolls, I find reason to make some comments. At the top of the list of priorities of the party in road policy is therefore nothing that benefits road safety, not something that contributes to the development of district and local communities, not something that is at the top of the business list, and that is definitely not to be said to be extra oil money for investment in future value creation – no, there are tolls that are involved, which only allow Norwegian drivers to spend a few dollars more on other than private consumption and perhaps annoy themselves a little less. It is clear that this is the case the Progress Party believes is our biggest societal challenge. This image is also reinforced by all the other contributions to the private car economy of the private car drivers that the Progress Party is still making, among other things. to reduce the petrol and diesel tax and to remove the new car tax. We're talking about billions of dollars without actually building a single meter new road. It may seem that the Progress Party wants us to believe that only they will start their project, it will start building up the four-field highway across the country – only they will come to power. The astronomical sum that it will require is produced as completely unproblematic to draw from the pension fund. It's called investment, without mentioning that every dollar used has the same effect on interest rates and interest rates, no matter what you actually call it. So to the comment of the Progress Party that the government is building roads and sending the bill to the people. To this I would say that with the economic policy of the Progress Party, the Progress Party will send the bill to thousands of people who are currently working in export-oriented business, not so that they have to pay a sum from their own pocket, but that they simply risk losing their job. It's just to put on a bill. It is just one example of a number of bills that people will be able to get along with the economic policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1016	Now the President notices that we are in the middle of a proper transport debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1019	It's probably a familiar thing in this room that we in the Progress Party are against tolls, so I don't intend to talk about that. But I want to say something about these rewards. In the position of the case, it says that the majority looks very much forward to Nord-Jearn applying for rewards. The Council of State has also mentioned the rewards of the pulpit. What I want to do is send a warning to the management group that is going to send this application, because there is a lot of whip and not much carrots. Thus, the reward scheme allocates State collective funds based on car reduction measures. It is also said in the hall that these car-reduction measures come from a lot of local initiatives. But I will dare to claim that there is a lot of local whip. An example of the government's reward measures is in Buskerud. And listen carefully to: it's actually like in the Drammen in Buskerud they pave the way for all the bus pockets. Why do they do that? Well, that's because people shouldn't be allowed to drive a car, because what this does is that every single time the bus stops and takes people, it makes long, long queues after itself. I hope that in this case you do not expose yourself to exactly the same thing, because there is not much environment in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1028	Here I tried to be nice to the Workers' Party and commend them for turning around in the Stavanger urban railway business, which I think is very happy, but the thanks for that is that we get a tiger on the policies of the Advancement Party, which I do not know, but which obviously the Workers' Party has dictated and believed in itself. I'm afraid it's all about the debate. I think it is a little sad that the Workers' Party has such weak arguments against the Progress Party that they have to twist our policies in order to speak to us. We want to spend the tax money the state already takes in, better. It is therefore possible to give priority to road development without tolls, road safety and race protection. If the representative of the Workers' Party had read the Advance Party's alternative budget, she would see that this is a priority and numerically fixed in our alternative budget – a better bet in all areas than the Workers' Party achieves, because we are able to prioritise better. It's enough to mention the representative Solhjell from SV, who wrote in his book that this government doesn't have the ability to prioritize anything in a different way, because everyone in the departments sits and protects what they already have, instead of working across the ministry and getting things done better. Our alternative budget has shown that it is possible to do so. Therefore, we can release money in one place to give priority, for example. race safety, road safety and multiple roads better. It is okay that the Workers' Party will use this debate to defend the fact that we are going to use tolls to increase the tax level in the country. This is an honest position from the Workers' Party. I disagree with that, but then also the Workers' Party is going to be honest that that's what they're doing, and not talking like the tax revenue is now the same as they were under the Bondevik government. Today's government receives over 300 billion in 2012. kr more in tax revenue than in 2005 – in addition, tolls are added. And it's also strange that one claims that spending a few billion dollars more on the way creates inflation in the country, but when the same government has now given 14 billion dollars. More to Statkraft to build windmills, so by definition, it has no effect. I don't understand that logic. In this room on June 9th this year, the Stortinge adopted four new oil projects that will generate 90 billion. SEK more in investments in the Norwegian economy in four years – 90 billion. kr. So it's not going to create inflation and pressure in the economy either. Can the Workers' Party explain why it creates pressure in the economy when a paves the way, but that it does not create pressure when they build oil platforms or windmills? There's no logic in this. The last argument in this context: just look at the Bank of Norway, which has now cut interest rates by 1⁄2 percentage points. It is now at a level lower than their crisis plan. When you cut interest rates, it's to stimulate the economy, so that more people act and stop saving the same amount. Why would it be so terrible if the Progress Party had been able to use a few billion more dollars on the way? There will be no increased pressure in the Norwegian economy when the Norwegian Bank sees that it has to cut interest rates by 1⁄2 percentage points to maintain activity in the Norwegian economy. The Labour Party should take over the realities and stop having propaganda people write the posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1047	I'm glad I got the time to get some coffee this morning, and it cures quite a lot, as we all know. There are different ways of thinking about their ideal society. So some people think it's right — morally, ethically — to spend everyone else's money at all times to expand what is basically a state task. Some people actually believe that the driver is the most useful dairy cow we have in our society. Then I would like to remind you that when NTP was adopted in 2009–2019, it was also decided that we should build roads in Norway for approx. 219 B.C.E. kr. Within the same time frame – 2009–2019 – the state of the drivers collects taxes, taxes, tolls, for 700 billion. kr. These are the department's own numbers. Is it true that the drivers are going to co-finance our roads three and a half times? No, obviously you want them to do it both four and five times, because it's as good when everyone else can pay for the tasks for which the state has a defined responsibility. Then we're talking about a state that's had approx. 140 B.C.E. kr in profit last year, so it's not like there's a lack of money in our society. But when we talk about money and its use – and many people want to present the Progress Party as very irresponsible – it is that in the last case we discussed, there was a crack in the budget of 3 billion. kr. If you deal with our fighter planes, it's assumed that there could be a crack of both 80 and 90 billion. kr. So I don't know where we're going to hang the liability note during this debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1059	Not a transport debate without a toll debate, it seems to be the rule here in the hall. That's all right. But very many of the arguments we have heard before, and when the Progress Party accuses the Workers' Party and others of twisting the debate, it is very much the Progress Party itself that has distorted this debate. Then, of course, I use the opportunity to discuss politics from a larger perspective, because everything is related to everything. When the Progress Party calls tolls extortion – taxes and taxes have also been widely called extortion, historically – we call it fissures. In the same street, the Progress Party and the Right Forces – but especially the Advance Party – often talk about envy when we talk about distribution policy. In this, there are two very different ways of thinking about society. The progress party has a lot of money for everything. But when one comes close to power, and when one starts to look at the realities of the policy of the Progress Party, it's about tax cuts, welfare cuts and unfair policies. The Progress Party is the largest tolling party in this Chamber, since the outcome of the Progress Party's policy will be tolls in most areas of society in the long term. With the privatisation of health services, school etc., etc., it will force itself to make a self-payment – and tolls – on a completely different scale than the drivers in Norway will have to pay off road tolls. So what's really the toll party in this room is the Progress Party. If we are going to have an extended debate on tolls, we can take it too. But for us, the tax policy is about split layers – getting things together – and getting good infrastructure development and a fair distribution of the burden in that way. I have also noticed today that civil cooperation is cracking. It has been whipped in all directions over and over again, so how to reach agreement in these areas – as in particular. tolls are an example of – it will be exciting to see. The distance is at least very large today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1074	It is quite amazing that previous speakers thought it was nice that there was a debate on tolls. What we're actually going to discuss here is an extension of the toll scheme for the North-Jear package in Rogaland. Then it might not be so strange, when we discuss tolls, that there's going to be a bomb debate. But I think it's other special, which I don't record anyone from the government parties talking very loud about, that's what the prime minister for a little while back said to NTB: we don't have to build with Public Private Cooperation, because we have enough money. I repeat, we have enough money to invest in infrastructure. It's pretty amazing that what you usually discuss is that the drivers have to pay more than the cost of building the road – yes, it's a small government bill, but with the collection costs and interest costs at the top, the costs are higher for the drivers than it actually costs to build the road. Then I hear the word ‘care team’. Splice layers are if we agree that you put so much on, and then I put so much on. But basically, with the propositions that come to the Big Thing now, the split layer is like this -- and it's maybe in a good social-democratic spirit -- that it's nice that you're in, but we're taking all your money, and then you have to pay the entire bill. When I hear the Council of State boasting of the local initiative, it was the local initiative for up to six months or just under a year ago. After all, when new local politicians have taken over the control of the municipalities, because the voters will not continue with the state extortion they are experiencing, they actually say no to the toll project with local initiative. Then the same state, with the state council at the head, if you don't do what we say, we'll come and take their money, and then we'll put them into some other new projects. It's not local democracy or local opportunities. The state councils have done it to Alta. In any case, the Labour Party's leader in the Transport Committee has made it clear to the municipality of Alta that if you don't go for tolls, you won't get anything. The Council of State has said this to Harstad, and the Council of State has even said this to Kristiansand with regard to the reward scheme: If you do not impose a rush time charge, we will take from you the 60 million. kr. It's not a fissure layer or a local initiative. It's state extortion – which I don't think you should do. This package here also shows that. So this is 160 million. kr, not to build a single metre of road, but to collect the money and skin the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1089	It was actually the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, a displaced rogalending, who made me take the floor, because he personally called me the red father, and I appreciate being called. But then it's important to me that I actually have a political project, and that project is not to take a doctorate in sewing, as the representative suggests. It's actually getting things done. That is why I am forced to ask the representative – the now prominent, high-ranking representative from the Progress Party – about what he has done for Rogaland. I can say that I have at least delivered 3 billion kroner. kr to the railway and has delivered a lot of money to the road, for racial protection. How much do you think the progress party has got, because they're sieved over the red danger like this? Then there's another thing that's interesting. The advance party is simply in position on the North Jären and in Rogaland. They're in plural. There they sit and drive in tolls day after day – poor delayed drivers are flown by the Advance Party daily, with their will, in plurality. And then he comes here and knocks on me! What the hell is this, Solvik-Olsen? You're the leading cash collector yourself, with your own game in your head, and then you shut me up. No, I thought that the new, coming man in the Progress Party should confine himself to the pulpit in Stortinget. I record that he embraces the Working Party, while what I believed Siv Jensen had seen him, was hugging Right. The progress party has not been made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1101	Even if you're never so engaged, everyone should be addressed to the President. The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1106	It's not easy for the representative Langeland to follow with in reality, because one thing is that we're sitting with a county commodity rapporteur who's been in his position for two months, another thing is that we're still opponents of tolling. So we don't get the majority because right and others want the tolls. But it's really nice to hear that Langeland, with its logic, has put himself in the position of one of Norway's leading champions to join NATO and to maintain the EEA Agreement. [[Laughter]] So it's interesting to hear that someone says that toll financing is a spice layer. If one had used the same principle for municipal proceedings, that the one who pays the most, gets his case first dealt with, one would have been caged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1115	I feel a need towards the end of this debate to withdraw him from what this matter is really about. This is actually how – this is for the representative Bård Hoksrud – that Prop. 28 S is an example of a local and regional initiative that has been followed up. Transport plans have been carried out on the North-Jear since the 2001 decisions. Here, municipalities, county councils and the state have cooperated on good solutions and have put something in front of them, which means that a person has a better appearance and a better environment, but there is still much to be done. Contrary to the Progress Party, government keeps to some framework that we think is safe for Norwegian economy year after year. Therefore, like the Progress Party, we do not have unlimited means. But I thought – when we're going to count up so far – that we've got a lot of work going on, both by single projects and by collective action, and we're going to provide more of both. But in this case, the entire proposition prays for the shape of the cooperation that is. From a somewhat different point of view, the county has coordinated this and sent an application to the Stortinget. It's cork blackmail or other strong expressions that are the main point of this proposition; it's actually to meet Rogaland County and the application they're making to solve some new road projects, pedestrian and bicycle roads, and collective projects. I am pleased with the broad connection that is to this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1124	The next speaker is the representative, Mr H. Langeland, who is the rapporteur on the matter and thus has 3 minutes of speaking time. Then Bård Hoksrud. Hoksrud, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1129	Yes, I can also speak on behalf of Hoksrud, if it is desirable! I see that now the Progress Party has drawn a lot on the list of speakers, and that means that Friday can be a little bit more, so I think I should set the temperature down a little for myself and come back to some important points that apply to this package. This applies to something that is asked locally – to be involved and develop the North-Jearth for more environmentally friendly transport, to get results for cyclists and to get things done, so that business can make more money, for example. they have to be smaller in cars. There is SV the leading business life party in Rogaland, too, because they want solutions that make the goods slip and the bus run, while one thus gets quite concrete results with billions of dollars for the train on the North-Jear – while the Progress Party, as far as I know, has not been able to cough up a single penny. But it's quite right, as Ketil Solvik-Olsen says, the party of progress was the largest party at the last election. I don't think so, because I think the voters are also starting to search for results. It doesn't just seem to be very good and have a high level of education in siring -- it's kind of not enough for the voters in the long term. One must deliver results. Now I see that there is one from the Progress Party that has delivered results – under the Bondevik II government – simply the representative of Kenneth Svendsen. At least three roadside crossings enabled him to cough up within one budget. So it turns out that it's completely possible to get to! But I'm recording that from the Progress Party's new man in the Financial Committee, no results are being made for Rogaland. I've realised that there are the voters in Rogaland who decide who is chosen, and that it's not Ketil Solvik-Olsen, even though he has a high level of education. But it could sound like this when he said that I had to go after the people of Rogaland, who choose me. But in fact, unlike Ketil Solvik-Olsen, I am re-elected four times on the Storting – despite the fact that I stand for these bright red positions as Ketil Solvik-Olsen slept poorly at night. In summary, I would say, it's good for the North-Jear that the Progress Party manages, with a hard hand, a gray toll package that skins the caristics several times every day, and that it doesn't have any meaning just one comes to power. Then the policy is not one that stood for before one came to power, important. Of course, it has also marked SV in some areas, such as Ketil Solvik-Olsen. in relation to NATO. But I record that the Progress Party's project to cut tolls does not apply when one gets power locally, as in Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1144	First, I have to say to the representative Langeland, who is very concerned about what the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen does and does not get, and that he does not deliver results. But it is well that the climate policy that Ketil Solvik-Olsen advocates is the climate policy that is going to become the one, which the representative of Langeland may not be as pleased with. At the last major elections – to go back to that debate – the Progress Party had 26 pst., and SV had 4 pst. So maybe the voters in Rogaland want more FrP policy and less Langeland policy. So you come to the pulpit here and say that this is a local initiative, that municipalities and county councils – and everyone – have been with this. That's great. I don't think the drivers are flying around in torches and I think it's very good that they should be hit with huge toll costs, extra taxes, and 160 million. NOK just to collect the money, which does not go to a single meter way or anything else. It's very special that you have to pay so much to not get any things, in addition to all the interest expenses that they're charged. So I think, when someone here says that we have to interact, do things together, we have to have split layers and all sorts of things: a few days ago, the evening post had a notice that in five days, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would wipe out 8 billion. kr on assistance. That's more than all we're going to spend from the state on highway investment all year next. I think it's a little special, when you say it's not money and there's no way – it's money if it's political will for what you want to spend money on. The Progress Party's alternative state budget is entirely within the framework of the rule of action, so all the arguments that the Council of State used here in the pulpit instead of the Progress Party that we had any money other than others are just nonsense. But it's about what you prioritize, and what you want to spend money on. Yes, there is a difference between the government that is now sitting and the Progress Party. Another example is that since the Council of State is from Rogaland, it's the Solasflitten. So you spend a lot of money there, and the drivers have to pay a lot of money to build a two-field road that it would cost 10 pst. more to build as a four-field road. Then you want queues, corks and chaos and not solutions that allow the drivers to arrive. It could be done with a small extra cost and so provided a good traffic solution and made sure that people came to and from work in a fast and efficient way. It's also environmental protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1157	I sat in my office and suspected peace and no danger and had ordered an early flight home, but I have to re-order that. What made me take the floor was Freddy de Ruiter's statement that the Progress Party was responsible for tolling, for privatising the health care system, etc., etc. I guess we're responsible for all the trouble in the world, too, if he gets to keep doing this. I hear the rapporteur in this case say that I have had three junctions on Fauske. No, I haven't got three junctions on Fauske, I've got a whole new way across Fauske – and, you know, without five cents in tolls! Since SV came in, there have been three new projects in the area around us – all with tolls – 80–90 pst. paid by the drivers. Then he talks about interaction and splinter layers. Splice layer! The drivers pay 60 billion. NOK in fees to use the car, plus that the red-green take in 6 billion. SEK in tolls in addition, so the drivers pay 80-90 pst. And it's a spice layer! So it was about local unity. Well, there was local consensus before the election that you should have a road package on Helgeland. The voters said, "We don't want to." Hadsel and Wefsn have now gone out of that road package, they don't want that road package. So now the Council of State's extended arm, the head of the road, travels around these municipalities and in a way forces and pushes through the fact that they are going back into the road package – otherwise they don't get roads. Who is responsible for building roads in this country? Is it the drivers, or is it the state? You transfer responsibility to the drivers. It's totally unacceptable. Then you talk about not having enough money, you talk about pressure in the economy if you spend money. Why do you think the Norwegian Bank is setting interest rates down? Is it to reduce activity in Norway? No, it's to get more activity in Norway. And what does the state do? They don't want to spend money on roads. So we could have increased the activity to next year, we could have increased the activity so much that you wouldn't have dropped the interest rate. But the thing is that it does not want the Storting. They don't want to spend any more money. They've pretended that we're going to have the level of taxation from 2004. Instead of increasing taxes, tolls are increasing — which is actually a tax — so that the level of taxation in Norway is well above the level of 2004. As if that were not enough, it has been announced that municipalities can increase the property tax – again in order for the state to escape. But the taxes are going up. When is this going to end? I'm wondering. I'm glad there's going to be elections again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1169	When I hear the party's violent commitment and high voice usage in the matter of tolls, I think: Think if the party of progress could engage as much in the injustice of the world! But then there is an answer from the representative Hoksrud, because then the common party of progress comes to the conclusion that it is the poorest in the world who are to blame, and that it is to them that we should cut in case, if we are to spend more money and other things in our budgets. It's one of the few areas where the Progress Party actually cuts, it's for the poorest. I think we should be proud that we have the world's best country to live in. I think we're going to be proud that we're spending more money than ever on welfare in this country. We do that because we distribute the good things well, and because we have a spice layer. The social model of the Progress Party is completely different — yes. To the representative Svendsen: Yes, there will probably be a more uncertain world with the policies of the Progress Party – both security policy, environmental policy and aid policy. Yeah, there's no doubt about it. It will create bigger conflicts. I think we can be proud of the social model we have in Norway. The party of progress wants something completely different. I also register that the representative Svendsen took the floor because of my post. Then I would like to repeat it: Yes, the Progress Party is Norway's largest toll party. Yes, the privatisation of a number of welfare areas by the Progress Party will force a self-payment for very many services – as we see in other countries – which is quite different from the poor, small tolls you pay to drive on the roads in Norway today. Then we're really talking about big tolls. It is unfair policy; it is toll policy on the most unsocial. It is the social model of the Progress Party. So – yes, the Progress Party is the leading toll party here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1178	I'll try – I don't see anyone else who's signed up – to just thank you for a constructive debate – to no, there was a Frp-ar, yes! I'll be very brief. The advance party is in positions all around the country. They manage tolls as well as tolls across the country. They're involved in bringing in these money that they're so very opposed to. I note that Kenneth Svendsen would like to be surprised and complain that he does not reach the plane, but I also note that the debate shows that there will be easy negotiations between the Right and the Advance Party in the government negotiations in 2013. It has clearly illustrated this debate with the tone and the seriousness of the debate on which the Progress Party is committed. At the same time, I see that when the reality is there, when the power is there, there's nothing against driving the money away from the bristles that you're trying to protect. When you come in position, all of this rhetoric that you produce in the hall here today is gone. I believe that Nord-Jären can now have a scheme that can improve the traffic situation for all motorists, by investing more in public transport and investing more in bicycles. I note that the emphasis of the Progress Party is not the solutions for the North Year, but that a user spends tolls to solve the problems in the North Year – it is a matter of emphasis. There are no visions of how to change Norway, as one says in its party program – it would be interesting to hear if there were actually some political solutions too. For my part, I conclude by thanking you for this debate and requesting the representatives of the Progress Party in County and Municipalities to be happy with the collection of tolls – it is good to see that they can handle that job as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1189	The President will note that the more three minutes the later the flight will be for both Kenneth Svendsen and Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1192	Only a few brief comments: The lot is the lot of the lots of the lots, a lot which ensures a clearer and clearer division of the classes. On a number of the social goods they boast, they let the payers get ahead. It's the Labour Party's philosophy of self-interest. Then the representative de Ruiter also talks about the'small, dirty tolls'. Let us briefly summarise: from the autumn of 2005 and even the two projects that have now been adopted, where there are tolls in, the extra tax bill from this government to the country’s drivers – and also to the country’s businesses, because they are with and pay this – is 100 billion. kr. The sum of all the projects that are now approved by all the Toll Trailers in Stortinget, and then unfortunately also the Right and Christian People's Party – at least so far – belongs to 100 billion. kr. The drivers have to pay 25 billion. kr to collect money. So they won't get one meter away until they've paid 25 billion. And then it's 75 billion. So let's add another cent. There is a formidable extra tax bill that is understandable for the government to want as little attention as possible around and as little information as possible about. Today’s system of infrastructure financing in Norway is meaningless. It's not my expression, but more and more of those who have more things on the social economy than what I have, express themselves like this. They say that the arrangement we have in our country, which is administered vigorously by this government, is meaningless. We have money to invest and upgrade our infrastructure, we have an economic situation that all countries around us envy us, and they understand less and less that we are not able to connect all the major investment needs we have to get Europe's best road network and Europe's best rail network into state funding. It will bring good social returns, and it will give competitiveness and increased value creation across the country, if we had managed to do so. Instead, the government continues with a meaningless model of infrastructure financing. That's why there's every reason to look forward to the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1203	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1206	I have to bring down the pulse a little bit. What made me take the floor here is the level of business that Freddy de Ruiter brings to life here. Here he rams up in heaps that we want the privatization of welfare goods. I want Freddy de Ruiter to mention some examples that we want private solutions. We want outsourcing, but we don't want private solutions. He mentions that we're going to increase the proportion. Well, we're proposing to reduce the excesses that Freddy de Ruiter and the Workers' Party are increasing. So he mentions u-help. Here we want to make investments in developing countries so they can trade with us. There are just such things that have brought South Korea out of poverty, and that are on the good path to bring China and India out of poverty. We see that works. So he makes a point that we're going to be involved in increasing the level of conflict in the world. I assume that he then aims at our desire for continued membership in NATO, and that he bases it on what his comrade in SV wants to go out of. So that's probably how he wants it. I'm not going to say anything more than just stating that Freddy de Ruiter's last post is a clear proof that school policy has failed. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1221	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1224	So that's it with the level of detail. I'm going to answer the challenges – I'm going to take a few social areas now quickly. School sector: the party of progress opens up to full privatisation. All commercial actors who want to get to school are allowed to do so. They were against when we put restrictions in the new private school law. Schools should be allowed to take as much school money as they want – it is also the policy of the Advance Party, there have been several rounds of it in the Chamber. The same is true of the elderly: we see a number of municipalities with a blue majority who want to privatise and build private hospitals, operate them privately, etc., with commercial actors. It's not that it's illegal today, but one sees an acceleration of it. We have money in fine, it's said, and one is looking forward to the next election. I'm not so sure that the Right is looking forward to the next election in that way, if the Right is going to cooperate with the Advance Party, which is going to remove tolls and do everything they say they're going to do, in relation to spending money in buckets and buckets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1237	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1240	I believe that unlike me, the representative Freddy de Ruiter believes that only the state is in charge of it, that it is in government or public control, everything is going to be fine. In fact, my starting point is that students can choose, make schools the best possible, whether they are private or public. The fact that grandma or grandpa can be allowed to choose actually makes you tighten up and make the best offer. I actually thought that it was the offer that was important. This is a long way from what we're really discussing right now, the North-Jear toll package – and I guess that's the way all the posts are going to be a little bit about it. I would at least remind you that instead of throwing away 160 million. kr – as Freddy de Ruiter’s representative thinks is right – on this package they should be used to provide proper health care or school services to many students.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1247	The President has indeed been in doubt about – ever since she entered the Chamber – what is the subject of this debate. The representative Kenneth Svendsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1253	The last post to Freddy de Ruiter is probably proof of a failure in school policy. He was talking about private schools. Yes, that's right: we want private schools paid by the state – one price. He was talking about private nursing homes. Yes, we want that too – in competition and paid by the state. That doesn't mean privatisation. That means outsourcing. So here the school has a lot to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1258	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1822]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1274	The President has taken the view that the Committee on Transport and Communications wishes to depart from the original debate. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that there be free debate. There are still many hours left of Friday. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative, Mr Kjernli, who is the rapporteur on the matter – it seems that the rapporteur has resigned. No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1822]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1296	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1305	Now I fear that this broadband debate will slip into a toll debate – I sincerely hope not on a Friday afternoon. Electronic communication has become an increasingly important part of everyday life for us in a modern society. The transmission of documents, ideas, thoughts and exchanges of information via the electronic media has increased dramatically in recent years. Broadband has therefore become a prerequisite for a varied business and residence throughout the country. The Committee believes that access to electronic communications in many ways is as important as, and comparable to, other means of communication in our country. It is therefore natural that governments continue to play a central role in this picture. The development of modern broadband networks is the very basis for the sound and good development of districts. In many cases, the provision of mobile coverage and broadband access is crucial for young people’s choice of accommodation. Nevertheless, the state has taken a little light on this, we think. The company Ericsson, together with Chalmers University of Technology, has conducted a study that concludes that increasing broadband speed significantly contributes to economic growth. The study was conducted in 33 OECD countries, including Norway, and concludes that doubling the broadband rate will lead to an increase in gross domestic product of 0.3 pst. For OECD countries, it will amount to 726 billion. kr – and that is a significant sum. Direct and indirect effects would provide short to medium-term stimulus to the economy. It was concluded that broadband has the capacity to stimulate economic growth by creating efficiency for society, business and consumers. Norway was early off to use electronic communications, and we have a good broadband coverage at lower speeds. The broadband coverage defined in St.melding. No 49 for 2002-2003, where we have a coverage of 100 pst. today, is no longer considered full broadband coverage. In the EU – with our neighbouring countries Finland and Sweden – there are clear plans for a large-scale expansion of high-speed broadband to the population. The European Commission has launched a target for all EU citizens to be able to connect to 30-100 MB/s broadband by 2020 and for at least half of EU citizens to be connected to 100 MB/s by 2020. Several EU countries have higher ambitions than this. Finland has, for example: a statutory right for all residents of the country to have a connection of 100 MB/s by 2015. The statutory right covers the whole of Finland, with the exception of 2000 customers who live in very remote areas. In this context, Norway has not set a target for the speed and capacity over a given period of time. The Committee considers it urgent to take an offensive step in this area so that Norway does not fall behind. A majority of the Committee considers that Norway should also have concrete objectives in terms of broadband development. The expansion of broadband through fibre access is very expensive in Norway with the geography and settlement we have. Therefore, commercial operators do not consider it economically viable to expand such broadband to all citizens. The Government has granted funds for broadband development over the Ministry of Consumer, Administrative and Church Affairs, expressing its desire to continue to do so, increasing mobile coverage and working to facilitate broadband with sufficient capacity. But until now, despite this, Norway has slowed down in the construction of fast broadband, compared with other countries. At least as important as state participation is the organisation through simplified digging regulations. The Committee notes that recently developed techniques for the laying of fibre cables will be much cheaper than traditional excavation, but this is not yet an approved method. In some cases, the draft new regulation for treatment in the ministry will increase costs by up to several hundred percent. The Committee is therefore pleased that work has been undertaken to improve the consistency of treatment of excavation applications, planning and coordination of infrastructure in and on the road. The majority ask the Ministry to give priority to this regulatory work. The representative proposal contains a sub-proposal 3, in which the government is asked to determine whether it would be useful in the long term to open up the closed access networks within broadband to competition. There are clear advantages, but also disadvantages, to this, and the Committee has become aware that postal and telecommunications supervision is now carrying out a new assessment of the broadband market in which access regulation is assessed. The proposers therefore consider this in such a way that they draw proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Finally, I would just like to stress that high-speed broadband, as part of an organisation for the transformation and growth of knowledge-intensive jobs, is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1337	If we go back ten to twelve years in time, broadband was not available to individuals in Norway. Today the coverage is roughly equal to 100 pst. for the lowest degree of broadband. But also for higher capacity, the coverage rate has risen sharply. Almost 70 pst. Today, the population of Norway has a capacity of 25 MB/s. Over 40 pst. has an offer of 50 MB/s. But only about 10 pst. subscribe to broadband with a capacity of 25 MB/s or more. In other words, the offer is much larger than the demand. This also shows that the broadband policy pursued over the last 10 to 12 years has worked. In Soria Moria II, the Labour Party and the other government parties say that they ‘will continue to work to facilitate broadband with sufficient capacity to meet future needs in schools, health, businesses and households throughout the country’. The development of broadband is mainly market-based. Providers shall assess the needs and coverage for commercial reasons. The market rules. The market works well in some places and areas, but the market also has its weaknesses, including in broadband development. Therefore, the State contributes to grants in those areas where there is no commercial basis for development. For the last five years it has been granted approx. 1 billion. on the budgets of the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The county councils have also received appropriations from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for the development of broadband – 128 million. kr for this year. We have funding solutions today that contribute to the development of broadband in those areas to which the market does not extend. So it's a question of broadband goals. There could always be a discussion about what is sufficient bandwidth. The aim of the Government and Labour Party is to continue to expand broadband with sufficient capacity throughout the country – broadband faster than the minimum standard underlying the definition of broadband. Then I can just refer to the numbers and the percentages I pulled out instead, which shows that today's offer is greater than the demand. It's a gang called the Countmates, which consists of several infrastructure companies. They are subject to the Code of Procedure and Responsibilities for cable laying and moving by public roads. The Ministry of Transport has taken an initiative towards the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in order to bring about a more coherent approach to the treatment of excavation requests, planning and coordination of infrastructure in and along the road. That's good. An external party has been selected to look at this and to assess the various proposals for cover requirements of the Road Administration and the pipeline industry. This work shall be completed in mid-March. The working party expects the regulations to come shortly after this. This is not a simple topic, and it is understandable that things take time, but now you should be able to reach a conclusion that everyone can live with. Open and closed access networks are also a theme. It is appropriate to consider whether access networks should be more open to competition. The Ministry of Transport has stated that they will assess regulatory measures if the principles are not properly followed by the market. This assessment will put the Working Party behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1352	The Internet is becoming an increasingly important part of a modern society. Not only can you exchange vast amounts of information, the Internet is also revolutionizing how people deal with each other, and how businesses are organised. We see this ourselves here at Stortinget, where tablets are now about to revolutionize the way we work here. Internet broadband infrastructure itself has now become so important that it is possible to estimate what a doubling of broadband speed means for economic growth in a country. This is something that politicians have to take over. In other countries, however, clear targets have been set for both Internet speed and broadband coverage. The EU has set the target for all to have the possibility of 30 MB/s by 2020 and for half of the population to have access to 100 MB. The United States has about the same objective as the EU, while Sweden, Finland and Denmark have higher ambitions than has been set for the EU as a whole. On the other side of the earth, goals have been set that in some cases are ten times as ambitious as those that you have in Europe or America. Australia has set the goal of 93 pst. of all dwellings and establishments, have access to fibre optics by 2016. In Singapore, all shall have fibre optic access by 2013 and in South Korea, all shall have access to 1000 MB from 2012. Then we're talking about a really fast Internet. Norway should be one of the richest countries in the world, but here the authorities use a prehistoric broadband definition that makes it appear that almost everyone has the opportunity to get broadband. As a result, Norway is not taking the necessary action either. The working party, SV and the Centre party have nothing to be proud of when it comes to broadband. The whole point of having forward-looking national broadband targets, as other countries do, is that it is possible to measure from year to year whether these targets are actually being met. If, for example: Turns out that some parts of the country are going to be hanging after, we can grab hold of things to sort out. Therefore, such objectives need to be adopted politically, as has been done in comparable countries. The advancement party has the ambition to have access to 100 MB/s by 2015. So this is a tenth of South Korea's goal for 2012, but the Workers' Party, SV or the Center Party will not even be involved in this. The Progress Party believes that development in Norway should continue and, in general, take place through the creation of broadband by private operators at their own cost and risk. Therefore, we need to facilitate the possibility of adding fibre to the ground and not imposing impossible demands on the broadband industry related to how deep they should dig. Today, broadband developers have to deal with 429 municipalities that have different local rules. It goes without saying that this is difficult for the industry to deal with. The Ministry of Transport has a regulation that, in some cases, can make it hundreds of percent more expensive to build broadband for most people. The Progress Party believes that, on the contrary, we should look at how we can simplify legislation so that the development of broadband is not more expensive than necessary. I find it strange that no other parties on the Stortinget have announced that they will vote in favour of this progress party proposal. There are many different business models for broadband deployment. In our proposal for a representative, we have put forward proposals to determine whether it would be useful in the long term to open up the closed broadband networks to competition. However, we do not see any reason to re-examine the proposal in the vote, because, in any case, the Post and Telecommunications Authority regularly assesses broadband access markets. In any case, opening the networks is very far ahead in time, and that is how Telenor's copper network was only opened up to competition many years after the network was fully developed. Introducing something like this during a period where large and expensive investments are still ahead could have a negative impact on broadband construction. In view of some of the recordings we have received from the industry as well, we think it makes sense to wait and look at the investigation that is also being carried out by the postal and telecommunications authorities. In conclusion, let me sum up that ambitions for this country must be allowed, which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre seem to be lacking, both in terms of broadband and in terms of other infrastructure such as roads and railways. I would like to take up the proposals of the Progress Party in the matter and hope that future-oriented politicians in other parties will change their mind and vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1378	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1381	This is a very important topic, which unfortunately often comes into the background of other issues when the committee is dealing with matters. Often, the exposure to and against tolls is actually greater than for this important theme. I'm sorry. This is important for districts, it is important to work, and this is the new form of communication. That's why there are possibilities in technology, and what's right today is not necessarily right tomorrow. This is why it is important that we focus on this, and that we see just when the need changes in this area – and there is full coverage of broadband a so-called issue we can look at. There is almost full coverage today when it comes to low-capacity broadband, while when we look at the new generation broadband, which has high capacity – fibre broadband – we only have a quarter of coverage today. Therefore, my concern is that we can get a greater digital class distinction if we do not actively stimulate development and use the whole country. That's why I think it's important that we work consciously to get a well-developed high-capacity fibre broadband across the country. When it comes to the proposal, I don't want to say anything more about it. I thought the case spokesperson in his statement did well for how the Right Party and therefore also the Christian People's Party put themselves to the proposal. I found it interesting that the representative Gorm Kjernli mentioned if the open network was open, and there is another issue that is quite clearly going to come out more clearly. To end where I started: we see that this debate in our committee is getting too little focus, but then it will be that when we now see that TV is on the go online, probably also interest and debates will take up this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1392	Norwegian broadband policy is a success story. OECD measurements show that Norway is among the best countries in terms of broadband access and household speed. I believe that the recipe for success we have followed so far should also be the strategy for the future. Norwegian broadband policy is aimed at facilitating market players to expand and public authorities to favour areas that are not adequately offered in commercial development. In the period 2006–2011, it has been raised around 1 billion. kr for broadband purposes over the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and the Ministry of Churches and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Government permits, along with local funds, have helped a large number of people to obtain broadband. The government is now fully operational with a new broadband lift. The superfluous TV frequencies are set to be used to give people a better broadband Saturday. The players who access these frequencies will be required to build a network with very large coverage and high capacity. I am pleased that the government is now making it possible for residents to experience a significantly better supply compared to today in a few years. Access to, and costs of, the use of driveways are important to achieve a high level of competition in the broadband market and in the ecosystem market in general. The Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment have legislation that can determine price and access to driveways. There is today a well-developed market for co-location under the eco-regulation, but the Ministry now assesses whether there is a need to impose stricter requirements on e.g.: the duration of proceedings. There are two important social concerns to take care of when it comes to digging in one road. For my part, I will secure both the road and broadband. This means maintaining good traffic management, ensuring road safety, ensuring a good standard on the road during and after digging, while at the same time providing the best possible means for broadband developers to use roads to develop quickly and cost-effectively. Currently, the Department is working with a counsellor on the installation of cables in and along the road. We need to find a good balance between the road users and the cable operators' interests. Let me round off the debates on open network, network neutrality and packages of telephony, TV and the Internet and problems that may arise where the final users experience a link between infrastructure and content services. This is an important topic; they are debated livelyly both in the industry here in Norway and in the EU. The experience of broadband development in Norway shows that it is important that governance facilitates the development of good business models that users want and that promote the development of high-speed broadband. In our country, postal and telecommunications regulators and Norwegian broadband providers have done a good job in designing the principle of network neutrality. An important principle is that users should be able to download content and services over the Internet according to their choice. I follow developments closely and will consider regulatory measures after the eco-innovation if the principle is not followed up by market players in a satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1421	It was very good in the articles of the Council of State. I have to say I'm a little worried when you say you have the best access and the highest speed in the world – I guess I'm not sure if we're all there, but we'll see that now. What I'm concerned about, and I want the Council of State to be very clear on, is the digging order. It's been there a long time, and it's been working for a long time. There will soon have to be a clarification, because we see that some municipalities now have hopeless demands for those who are going to deploy broadband, so it is impossible to continue. The drama municipality is an example that it would really cost a lot of money if you were to put out broadband, so that's where you stopped doing it. Several other municipalities are now using the same rule. When can the Council of State guarantee that we will have a regulation in place? That's what's important to get more broadband and broadband at a much higher speed than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1430	«Guarantee» means a demanding word, but what I can emphasize very strongly is that this is not a type of matter that remains at rest. There's something that we're really busy finding a solution to. The first time I met this question was from Nord-Trøndelag County, which wondered if they could use their regional means of development to provide fibre broadband at the same time as asphalted county roads. It was a brilliant combination. Later, I have just seen these conflicts that can occur locally when one is going to do things at different times and dig with different depths. We have a project, because we have to have a neutral instance that goes through how we're going to get a common solution here. We have to get it done, and it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1440	I am pleased that the Council of State referred to the Nord-Trøndelag, which has done very well in connection with the development of broadband. Now it's also like there's some obstacles in the way to get this right. Those who have stood for this, probably haven't earned any money yet. The Council of State said that we are well placed in European context. What we've become familiar with in the committee is that we're slowing down in relation to other countries. I guess that's got to worry the government council a little bit. Although we were early out at the lower speeds and put it into use, at least we're now a lot of people who are afraid that this is going the wrong way. Can the council say something about how she's going to make sure we're in the carousel and not getting the worst in the class.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1447	We're among the best countries in terms of access and speed, and we have to continue our commitment to being there. Now, what makes a big difference is that the TV frequencies are superfluous when they light up. We first had a hearing with the actors about how to make the call. There's a lot of vision here, but I think that's going to mean a lot. Just when the announcement will come and in what way, I have to be allowed to come back to. We're not quite there yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1454	I agree with the representative, Bård Hoksrud: The council held a very good post, and in particular I liked the state council that said about online neutrality, and that it follows the market there both to ensure that users have access to important information, and that content providers get that opportunity. We're very good at low-capacity broadband, but we're not as good at it when it comes to high-capacity fibre broadband. There's only one fourth that has access to today. Then my question is, what ambitions does the Council of State have when it comes to high-capacity fibre broadband? What time does it mean that we can approach an acceptable level of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1463	We haven't seen concrete goals, and it's not because we're not ambitious. However, when it comes to capacity – both citizens and businesses should have access to it and whether a measure of a certain speed should be set for everyone before a certain time, it must be carefully assessed both in terms of future needs and technological possibilities. We know that what is sufficient broadband can change relatively quickly over a short period of time. The need for, for example, five years, it is difficult to predict now. But we have to be on and do what we can to improve both capacity and access – there is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1468	As others have said, this is an important topic that may receive too little attention, so the invitation to the Council of State is appropriate to ensure that there is a greater focus on discussion in the Storting regarding this important tool. When we in the Progress Party dig into the digging regulations, it's because it's a very clear signal from stakeholders, from the industry that operates the development of new networks and high-speed networks. They're waiting impatiently. What they're saying is that last year it was promised by the Department and the Council of State that the regulation was right around the corner. In May this year it was said and promised that the regulation is right around the corner. Now they get information that a call for tenders to make this neutral investigation is right around the corner and will be completed in March 2012. When can we hope that there will be a regulation that will make it clear to the builders how to deal with expansion, so that we don't get something that stops expanding and renewing broadband?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1475	The call for greater focus I'm going to take with me. I want a bigger focus on this area myself. As Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, I was responsible for allocating funds to local and regional spice layers – although it is an expression that perhaps Blackevik does not like, he likes it in this area – in order to provide more people with access and capacity. And then it turns out that drafting a regulation or making a deal between different graves has been harder than I imagined a year ago. Now I'm going to be so direct and say that if Sortevik knows about an instance that can take on a neutral assignment in that context, I'll be very grateful – it'll be taken with pleasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1480	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1498	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1507	This has been an exciting thing to be the case spokesperson for. This has been one-third of the Committee's work. The Committee's recommendations are those of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, who ask for the matter to be put to the minutes. Then there is a proposal from the Progress Party, asking the government to lift the environmental limit in Oslo. From the Right and the Christian People's Party, there is a proposal asking the government immediately to clarify the legal basis for the environmental limit in Oslo, so that the action can be carried forward without delay. I think it is time for these cases to arrive at the Stortinget, and so I will pay tribute to the initiators, the representatives of the Progress Party. The environmental limit is a measure that is valid in Oslo, i.e. where it is normally 80 km/h per hour, the speed limit on some sections of the road is reduced to 60 km/h from 1 November to 15 April. The goal is to reduce air pollution. In its letter to the Committee, the Ministry states that the measure has a positive environmental impact. But the national lawyer has asked for a ruling on environmental limit decisions and an extension of how the department of my speed limit is allowed in today's legislation. The party of progress also says in a note that what is unexplained here should be cleared up by the road. That's what I'm going to end up with. In a recent judgment by the Lawyers' Court, it was found that the environmental limit is illegal, i.e. a penalty is imposed only for that part of the speed exceedance which exceeds the original speed limit. When the environmental speed limit is 60 km/h and one runs 75 km/h, one will not be punished for it. The judgment also states that ‘there is doubt as to whether the environmental limit is permitted by the Road Traffic Act’. After this, the attorney general said that he would not give the police authority the authority to enforce the speed limit. I have to say that I think it is serious that we have raised an environmental limit that it is not possible for the police to enforce. But I see a lot of the positive leads that are made for the environmental speed limit. Oslo is a city that also in European context has relatively major challenges when it comes to air pollution. That this measure is a positive contribution, I am not in doubt. But it has to be an objective that we can get this right, that we get it into the Road Traffic Act, and not least that we have to respect the rules we have. It's clear that the way this is organized, by not being properly allowed, is by undermining respect for speed limits. We today experience parts of these sections that there is a driving pattern that I do not think is lucky. There are some road users who stick to the environmental limit, while it is very clear that other road users keep to the speed limit on this route in the summer months. That's why I think this has to be cleaned up. This is my clear signal to the Council of State today. With this I take up the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1524	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1527	Every winter the limit values for particulate matter and NO2 are exceeded in our largest cities. An important reason for this is road traffic. Environmental borders alone cannot solve the problems of urban pollution, but there is one action by several to make our cities cleaner. The environmental limit in Oslo was first tested in winter 2004/2005 following a local initiative. The sign is about rv. 4, from Sinsen to Grorud, from 80 to 60 km/h. The evaluation, for which the Norwegian Institute of Air Research was professionally responsible, showed the following results of the pilot project in the winter: the average driving speed was reduced by about 10 km/h and the suspended particulate concentration was reduced to 39 pst. the winter compared to the winter before. The public response was more positive than expected and in a survey four out of five replied that the environmental limit is an acceptable measure if it results in better air quality. The slowdown did not result in a worse traffic downturn on the route. Noise measurements also showed somewhat reduced noise. Environmental limit values have later been marked on several roads in Oslo in winter and the results showed that reduced speed results in reduced re-suspension of dust along the roads. This can also be seen in international studies, including: from the Netherlands. The Progress Party's proposal proposes to remove the environmental borders in Oslo. A main justification is the unclear relationship around the legal basis of the environmental limits. Let me say it right away: it's high time you got clarity on this once and for all. Road authorities believe that this is provided for in the Road Traffic Act and in the Sign Code. The police have doubted whether they have the right to enforce this. Now it's time to be clear about it. I am pleased that representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport have now joined forces to clear up the confusion. I expect that we will get the results from there soon, and that the necessary measures will be put in place quickly if necessary. We can't spend any more time on this right now. But then I would like to add: using ambiguities around enforcement as an argument for abolishing environmental limits seems to me to be a substantial argument. If the issue of enforcement is the problem, we need to do something about it, as we are doing now, and not abolish the environmental limit. I think the Progress Party is at the environmental limit because they are against measures that limit road speed. The fact that it is called the «environmental limit» does not contribute to the positive view of the Progress Party. As you know, the environment is not something they usually care about. Environmental limits have their mission. It is an action that contributes to better air and better quality of life in cities. They must not be abolished, but there is an urgent need to clarify the enforcement of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1545	To the previous speaker's comments on the environment, you might say that earlier today the Workers' Party was to ease something like 1 million cubic meters into the Mjösa, so I don't know if it's so very environmentally friendly. The Progress Party believes that the environmental limit is an example of symbolic policy. It's all about pretending that you're acting and taking the emissions from the car seriously. The measure adopted is to reduce the speed limit for some sections with a high traffic rate from 80 to 60 km/h in the winter. The background to the introduction was that it was thought that this would reduce the suspended air from car traffic. In order to maintain the environmental limit, some reports were made several years ago. More doctors and researchers working with, among others respiratory diseases and allergies, have recently, in 2011, raised serious doubts as to whether there is any health effect of the type of particulates being reduced at reduced speed. In the case of combustion dust from the car engines, the environmental limit may contribute to more dust, because the queues are growing and therefore emissions are increasing. In the case of suspended particulates from heavy-duty tyres, it is obvious that a very large proportion of the suspended particulates from heavy-duty tyres are so large that they do not enter the airways. According to the State Road Service, the risk of accidents increases when drivers keep moving differently. In this case, it is quite clear that there are some politicians who have completely different motives. They push the environment in front of them as an excuse for what they really want, namely to reduce car traffic because they don't like cars. It is also interesting to note that both the State Road Administration, the police and the State Attorney have asked questions about the legality of the environmental border and thought that they did not have the authority to enforce and follow up the reduced speed limit with sanctions. We recently got a clear example of this. In one case against one that had broken the environmental traffic line, Borgarting came to the right of law that the court could not judge the person, because one did not have the authority to do so. I understand that for some symbol policies are important, but symbol policies that are not justified and that do not work, and that most people do not care about, should have been strictly put in the drawer rather than continued. If you really want to do something with the emissions from, among other things, For example, diesel cars could be replaced by diesel cars. only removed the mineral oil charge on the environmentally friendly fuel GTL, Gas-to-Liquid. This would lead to lower emissions of dust and NOx from both cars, trucks and buses. In addition, even more frequent sweeps along the roads could be made to reduce the amount of dust that is being swirled up. It is also a pity to record that committee leader Hareide, who said to Nettavisen on 18 November that he would not rule out going to remove the entire environmental limit, has now turned around and actually goes to maintain this hopeless speed limit. I allow myself to take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1574	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1577	Let me first say a few words about the background of the Oslo Environmental Limits. Part 1 of the pollution control regulation on local air quality imposes strict requirements on the level of pollution. The maximum levels for, inter alia: suspended particulate matter shall be maintained and plant owners shall be required to reduce the level of contamination. In Oslo, these limit values are exceeded more frequently than permitted. The state road body is required to implement measures to ensure that air pollution and particulate matter concentrations remain within the requirements. So it's health and environment that's the foundation. Road dust wear and suffocation is one of the major sources of suspended particulate matter in Norwegian cities. Several population studies have shown a correlation between exposure of suspended particulate matter and health concerns. I have done something about this in a letter to the Stortinget, both the background to the environmental limit, the effect that particulate matter has on health, the effect that environmental speed limits have on reducing suspended particulate matter, alternatives to environmental speed limits, and the enforcement of environmental speed limits. My recommendation is to keep this system, and I am pleased with the broad plurality of the Stortinget that is behind it. The government has taken action against local drive pollution, which is a high priority. Some Keywords here are: proposals for a charge to run in Rushtime; proposals for an increase in toll rates on days of high air pollution; and proposals for a fee for infringements of temporary traffic-regulating environmental measures, such as: par/oddetal execution. All actions will make the municipality toolbox bigger - the urban environment toolbox. I assume that this limit was introduced in consultation with the Municipality of Oslo. So the Ministry of Transport believes that both the Road Traffic Act and the Sign Codes provide an opportunity to establish an environmental limit. As a result of the fact that for years the police have doubted the right to enforce the measure, no Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport are discussing this with each other. The goal is to clear the road once and for all. The situation we have now is not lucky. We were pleased that the state attorney asked the questions he asked, and we have done well in a letter to the state attorney on how we look at this matter. We are waiting for his assessment and the work that is now being done between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport. I want to come back to Stortinget to find out about the government's solution as soon as possible. But I have registered today that a verdict in Borgarting Lawyers' Law has been drawn into the matter. It's a sentence that was passed recently. The judgment does not address the issue of clearance for environmental limits, but states that because the home has been re-examined, speed breaks exceed 80 km/h. Thus, the judgment cannot be accepted because the environmental limit is not permitted by road traffic laws. It is also a matter of history that the judgment is about a series of violations of road traffic laws. So our big question is, we're sure that the home is in line with the state road system and in line with the law, but we're looking at the reactions, because there's something that's not clear today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1594	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1597	When the environmental limit was introduced on the E18 in Oslo west, i.e. on the route from Filipstad to Lysaker, the measurements subsequently showed that the speed level had fallen by 4 km/h despite the speed limit being reduced by 20 km/h. Early this morning I drove a car from home to Stortinget. Part of the journey took place along Ring 3, where there is also the environmental limit. There it went evenly for 70 km/h in the right and approx. 80 to 90 km/h in the left file. On the basis of this, I would like to ask: is the Minister for Transport satisfied with the way the environmental border works?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1604	I'm glad that the facts that can be obtained when the effect is when the limits are held mean a lot for the measurement of particulate matter. It means that they have a clear health gain. As I said in my post, I'm not happy with the discussion that's now, because here it's not cleanliness when it comes to enforcement. That's why I think it's important to clean up, so that fractions of these speed limits are enforced as they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1610	I asked if the Council of State was satisfied with the way this is being practised today, so I can add that the speed goes evenly to 70 km/h in the right file and in 80/90 in the left there is nothing new that has happened after the Law of Law of the Law a few weeks ago. But I would like to ask the following questions: Does the Council of State think it is right to maintain a speed limit system of which the legality has been discussed, or does the Council of State agree that it would be right to remove the environmental limit until it is established whether it is lawful to have such an environmental limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1617	I am pleased that the environmental limit is established and I am on the point of continuing. Then Myhre and I might discuss the consequences of control, i.e. the impact of control on the road safety field and on other areas. These are issues we need to look at more closely; control and response when it comes to crime. It's important to get in place. I am happy with the experience from both E18, Ring 3 and Rv. 4, but of course, I want people to keep the limits that are set.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1622	I see that the effect of having an environmental speed limit is that you get reduced particulate matter, and that this is how it benefits the environment. When the national lawyer points out that the implementation of the environmental limit cannot be enforced on the basis of current legal legislation, the question is very simply referred back to the Council of State: had it not been possible for the Ministry and the Council of State to have settled and clarified this before the environmental limit was introduced? In this way, I also hear that the Council of State says that it should now be looked at – but it should probably have been done much earlier. So that's my question to the Council of State, and also a call for the position to vote for the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party here today, precisely because we are asking for the legal basis to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1627	It was probably my ambition that this should already have been cleaned up – that is, in the way one here can react – and that one had removed the ambiguity that is today. I support myself to a department that has received many different, extra tasks during this fall. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice are looking at this with a view to clarifying the situation. When I called a department that has been given many extra tasks, I thought indisputably the Ministry of Justice. But we're now going through this case and looking at how we're going to follow up. I think it's totally inappropriate to remove this environmental limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1632	The Council of State says that the Ministry of Transport believes that the Road Traffic Act is home, and the Council of State also refers to that judgment. After all, we know that the result of that judgment was that the road user who had breached the environmental limit was given assistance. It was said that it is doubtful whether the so-called environmental limit is covered by the Road Traffic Act. It is clear that we can understand what the Ministry of Transport thinks about this, but when our legal system is so clear on how they interpret it, my simple question is – since our legal system thus cast doubt on this: Can the Council of States promise that this will be cleared up and that it will happen as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1637	The answer is yes, I want this to be cleaned up as quickly as possible. There is agreement between the State Road Administration and the Ministry of Transport that there are in fact several decisions that give the necessary authority. But what has been unclear is the reaction. That is also what this judgment underlines. They say that since the home has been discussed, the speed break is over 80 km/h. By that I mean that the judgment cannot be taken into account because the environmental limit is not permitted by law. But let me underline one more time: action is needed to reduce particulate matter — there may be environmental limits. Other measures in urban areas are also necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1646	Since the Right has not asked for two lines, the last line goes to the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1649	It might seem a little bit like this is a new phenomenon that has arisen, but as everyone knows, this speed limit has now been for many years. There has been a lot of back and forth, and there have been many questions to the Council of State about this with the environmental limit and its legality. Now the Council of State says that someone is sitting together and working to see if they can find a solution. But until it is put in place – the representative Myhre asked a very simple question about this, twice, earlier in the line change – will the Council of State remove the signs with the environmental speed limit that are now up, as long as it has not been legalized? Can the Councils answer yes or no? Because it should be like this that the speed limit you have is actually the legal limit, and then it's separated by 80 km an hour, until you might agree that you should be able to set the speed limit down to 60 km an hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1656	This matter is about three restricted sections in Oslo. At the same time, this case is about better health and the environment for allergy sufferers and others. This is an action that works. We have had similar discussions when it comes to road safety, where there is also disagreement about both introduction and control. I think we need to get the relationship pattern clean here, because I think these are measures that can be transferred to other metropolitan areas. There is no doubt that we need to assess different measures here to address environmental problems in more cities than Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1666	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1670	For most of us, it's kind of illogical to stay less than 60 km an hour on a road with an approximate highway standard, with a middle and level crossing. Such a low speed limit must therefore have a clear and concrete justification and a demonstrable beneficial effect. The Minister for Transport refers to a study carried out in connection with a lower speed limit test scheme 11 years ago, which concluded that: ‘it had a certain dust reduction effect’. And I'm adding, for us who remember so far back in time, that that effect was barely measurable. Furthermore, the Council of State states that: ‘cooperation of other measures and favourable weather conditions may also have contributed’. Yes, of course. There have been several things happening, better car engines, more salting that gives more days than before with wet roads, and better sweeping – and this has been much more important to reduce the particulate matter. The maximum levels are that no more than 35 days per year with more than 50 mg of dust per m3 of air is permitted. However, this was also observed before the introduction of the environmental limits. In other words, there is no evidence that the environmental limit has had any effect on suspended particulate matter. The Council of State also writes that the Environmental Speed Limit has not had a negative impact on the resolution of the criticism. As I was inside one of my lines, of course it doesn't. It has hardly led to any recordable reduction of speed since the traffic scene is essentially the same as before. On the E18 in the west, the speed limit was reduced from 80 km per hour to 60 km per hour, while the speed just went down by 4 km per hour. I'm a fan of reduced speeds. When the roads are soaked as a result of under-cooled rain, the speed limit should fall – not to 60 km per hour, but to 40 km per hour or to 30 km per hour. A good tool is a controllable speed limit sign, as you have on the E18 in Oslo west, and in most road tunnels in Oslo. However, these are used only for the purpose of establishing environmental limits. My call is: Put these systems into active use and introduce variable speed limits on the rest of the few miles that we have with highways in Oslo. The general reduced speed limit regardless of weather and driving conditions is a disc bomb. It only creates irritation and less respect for both speed limits and for signs in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1692	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1708	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Those who had to sign on the roster in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1717	It is the irony of fate that we are dealing with this matter today, while we are dealing with the case of the E6 and the Dovreban, which were largely concerned with the planning processes – whether they had been satisfactory or not. That case illustrates just how extremely difficult planning processes can be, because there are many considerations to be taken into account. There may be objections, there may be disagreement between the municipalities, and at the latest today we got an example of disagreement in a solution that has been used for ten years to arrive at. There may be action groups and other stakeholders who have both good and heavy objections, and there may be other actors who want to give their say or comment on transport projects. Large, comprehensive transport projects to be planned may be complex. Having said that, I would like to say that the proposers are nevertheless concerned about something that is very important, and that it is an affordable initiative that has been taken in promoting this matter. I feel that there is a total amount of stuff that has said that we need to streamline the planning processes in relation to what we see today. We have to cut down the planning time. The Council of State has also stressed this on several occasions, most recently in its reply to the Committee. An example of a planning process with significant consequences was the planning of a new four-field road on the E18 through Vestfold at Larvik. Local protests led to a considerable delay in the planning process. This led to a tunnel being longer, a bridge being changed, and the price tag being 3 billion. kr more expensive. Many examples show such consequences of long planning periods. One thing is that it weakens competitiveness because it takes a long time to put in place new transport solutions that we need to make transport time more efficient. But it also has a very important socio-economic aspect, because very often we see that the extensive planning processes we have lead to projects becoming far more expensive than provided for by local conditions that emerge. I am an avid defender of local democracy. It is important to defend local democracy, and we should listen to local democracy. But we have to make a balance. There must be a balance between society’s need for good and efficient transport solutions to be put in place as quickly as possible, the social economy and local democracy. These are balances that have to be made. I think that we need to have faster processes, at least in terms of larger projects, that can lead to local democracy being more overrun in some cases. But once again, this must be weighed against the need to put in place good solutions and the social economy. We have more possibilities. There has been an increase in the use of government plans. There are measures that are used very rarely and that the Labour Party believes should be used more frequently than is currently the case. This is an opportunity that is already in the law. Another possibility is that the agencies are clearer on the leadership and priorities of projects to be implemented. Then it is not least important to have a political ‘backing’ in your back. The Ministry of Transport has a very heavy focus on this. It also has the floors. The Directorate-General for Roads will implement, inter alia: a project called ‘Effective planning’. We meet the results of the work of the State Council and the Ministry, and expect that it will be presented to the Stortinge in an appropriate way. With this, I'm going to deal with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1738	The representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen has taken up the proposal she referred to. The next speaker is Arne Sortevik, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1743	To set a good example, I will try to implement this in a shorter time than planned, also considering that it is Friday and the clock is more than half past two. The Progress Party believes that it is too late to meet the need for transport across Norway. That need must be met by building more and faster. We want to do it in 25 years. I am afraid that with the government's arrangements, it will take 50 and 70 years. One of several important steps to speed up the construction of modern infrastructure is to ensure clear, long-term and predictable funding. The Progress Party has long been alone in pointing out that today’s infrastructure economy is meaningless. Luckily, more and more people are coming on that track, eventually also the Right and Christian People's Party, while the government parties are still falsifying a little bit on a blind track. Another important step towards speeding up the construction of modern infrastructure is to reduce planning time. At least here, there seems to be a larger consensus. The entire Committee shares the concerns of the proposers that the planning process takes a disproportionately long time. The entire committee clarifies that the planning time has to go down. In fact, the Committee is also satisfied with the response from the Ministry and supports the work on efficiency that is taking place there. We have noticed that the Minister of Transport also points out, in concrete and clear terms, that it takes too long to implement road and rail projects. It takes an average of nine years to plan a new path. With reference to the first case we had in the hall today, there is reason to stress that shorter planning time does not mean less planning time, at least it must be such that the projects must be secured in a thorough, open and implemented manner, so that the Storting has a safe decision-making basis. The Party considers that it is necessary to streamline planning processes. We believe that today's arrangements for the longest time have come out of control. We want a planning process in which the overall national considerations are given crucial importance. Since 2003, we have had the system of KS1 and KS2, and we have received the concept selection investigation. And I repeat that when we want to shrink the process in relation to today's comprehensive plan requirements, it is as a fundamental prerequisite that quality assurance and thoroughness should continue to be carried out in a good way. It is a good initiative the Christian People's Party has taken up in its proposal for a representative. The Committee's position is based on the recommendation of the Progress Party, from the Right and from the proposal of the Christian People's Party. The majority are asking the government to promote more effective planning processes and shortening the time it takes to plan a new path. Our advice to the government parties is to follow that setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1760	The next speaker is Ingerd Schou. For this speaker too, speaking time is no more than 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1766	I'll also try to be effective in my post. I would like to thank the proposers for putting on the agenda an important theme in getting more efficient planning processes, but also getting better quality, which should not be at the expense of efficiency. Today, it began with a visualisation that it takes ten years to put in place a draft for the construction of the Dovreban and E6 together, which underlines with all clarity that this takes a long time – too long. To the representative, Mr Bjørnflaten, I have to say that speaking to the degrees of the proposal for decisions promoted by the proposers of the Christian People's Party, of the Right and of the Progress Party – and probably also supported by the Left – and at the same time voting against – is probably surprising. I look forward to getting a case on a better and more efficient planning process and with a binding timetable. There are many actors to be coordinated – municipalities, county councils, state and a number of other stakeholders and actors – and I share with the Council of State the idea of having binding timetables, which means that both municipalities, county councils and other actors have to deal with a given timetable. So if you're not on the starting line, you're accomplice to the fact that the matter is moving back to the starting point. Planning processes are currently taking disproportionately long time. There is a need for a more effective schedule for planning, and I meet the ministry's further work on the matter. I recommend to the positioning parties to support the proposal for a decision here that the government come back to Stortinget with a case on this, and not just to vote for this to be annexed to the protocol. So you're talking for, but you're voting against. It's alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1779	It is a joint committee that is very clear that we have challenges when it comes to the time it takes to plan our path. It takes an average of nine years to plan a road in our country, and when the nine years have passed, we will start building the road. It's a challenge, and I thought to the extent that today has shown some of the challenges of planning. I am therefore pleased that the government in the review tone in connection with this document has been so positive and that they are now working. On 28 November there was a round of hard work directed by the government, and a working group is running. I'm glad. If I can be allowed to point out what I think is natural measures: First, I think that the state has to coordinate and coordinate its interests in a better way than what is happening today. We know that there are different interests related to the environment and to agriculture. The type of interests of the state must be taken more seriously by the state to coordinate. Secondly – and I thought that the matter we had earlier today is a good example of – I think that all the parties involved should be involved as early as possible in the process. Then we win a good process, and we let go of fights because one has not entered the process at an earlier stage. Thirdly, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, there should be scope for increased use of state plans and regulations. I believe that too many municipalities that have had to deal with a matter over a long period of time, it is not perceived as negative when there is a government plan. The positive thing about getting a pruning can then offset the negative with a government plan. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa said in this election campaign that we should have a modern main road network and rail network in 20 years' time. This is an important part of that work. Because we haven't completed plans for a modern main road network within 20 years. Then we have to do several things: we're forced to increase the plan reserve, and we're forced to increase the pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1794	My ambition is a modern main road network and rail network within 20 years. Then there are three main challenges: the one is to donate funds. The other one is the most possible left for the money, which means building smarter. The third is faster planning. We've increased the permits to road and trajectory over the state budget by 12 billion. kr per year, investments are close to double, and we are planning to increase the framework for the next national transport plan period. Today we build smarter, more coherent. Project is fully funded when we start. We're trying out new forms of contract. But – Regulation No. 3: Planning takes too much time today. If we are to achieve ambition, processes need to be streamlined. We are also in the process of doing that. It's clear, I think, that we can use today's legislation even more, and that gives cause for optimism. Because if we're going to change the law, it takes time in this area. The Road Directorate has a project, effective planning. The work is initially limited to what is possible to make changes without major changes to the framework. This is largely about internal improvements in the state road system. However, the project will also point to any need for changes in external frameworks, such as: organisational changes or changes of laws. The project is organised as an internal pre-project in the State Road Service to be concluded in 2011 with proposals for follow-up actions. Then the department sees the frames. We had an idea now in November. I know that many of the committee's members were busy in other fields, and also got a hold of this seminar a little late. It was very interesting to listen to various bodies that looked at themselves and say their role in planning, and what could be done for improvement – everything from KS and the county to the representative of the quality insurers and the state road service and the railway station. Everyone listened to what the others said. From the Ministry of Transport's side, we aim to both sum up this and follow up on the proposals that were made. We've looked down on a fast-working team that's looking at this now, summing up the idea virtue, but looking very carefully at what we can do about improvements in the short term – and then we know that there's also something here that's called longer term. So I have to say, I'm glad that a joint committee is so busy streamlining planning. We need to put in place more efficient planning, so we can get even more projects in place. The need is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1811	But anyway, it's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1814	Nine years to plan a new road – both the Council of State and the Committee believe it is too long. In fact, most people think it's too long. Something should be done. The council says she's working on it. That's good. But concretely and clearly: what is the goal of government and the Council of State? When nine years on average planning a new road is too long, what should average planning time be? And quite concretely and clearly, what is the plan of the Council of State? When shall such a measure be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1820	It would be to anticipate what's happening, to set goals now. I must at least be allowed to check out this project that the Swedish Road Administration is delivering before the New Year. But there is a significant improvement here, because if it were even so, I would say the most, ‘simple’ that the planning time was nine years, but for very many projects the planning time is considerably longer, and I know that for example. reducing to half of the nine is very ambitious. This will, of course, require the necessary planning resources and not least the necessary planning skills. But I'm now optimistic about reduction, so we're going to get back to concrete goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1825	In the Right, we greatly enjoy the work done in the State Road Service. There will be more Right-wing policies, both new forms of funding, effective planning, overall planning and one with the other. We are in the Right concerned with transparency, more democracy and the involvement of all those who are to be involved in planning processes, but at the same time we are very concerned about the planning processes. The Council of State itself says that it is also the Council of State concerned that the planning processes should become more effective, and she also says that if you change the law, this will take a little longer. My small question is, When will the Council of State come back to the Stortinge with proposals for a more efficient planning process, all of which in this Chamber are concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1830	I have been responsible for this field for over two years now. I've probably experienced a lot more instances, individuals and parties that are more concerned with more efficient planning than the Right, so I want to warn you not to call this right-wing policy. But on the question of when, the answer will be the same as on the previous question: now we have to be allowed to see what the State Road Administration is coming with, and how the summary from the working group is going to be. The fact that planning and skills and times become a theme in the next national transport plan is at least safe, but I hope to bring something to the Storting long before that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1835	The councils said in the election campaign that we should have a modern main road network and rail network in 20 years' time. Today, the average road planning period is nine years. I agree, it's ambitious with a halving, but can the Council of State promise that it's one of the alternatives you're working with now? Because it's clear that one has to be ambitious, and just that at least we understand what it takes to get a halve, in itself, will be useful. Then I understand that the Council of State won't say anything about the time the Storting can expect anything about this, but this should be associated with, among other things. National transport plan, and therefore there could also be a question to the Council of State if we will have some guidance on this in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1840	First, a correction to the chairman of the committee: in my ears at least within 20 years sounds much better than in 20 years. I'll stick to it within 20 years, because I mean that the Storting together – sometimes to a majority, sometimes to a minority – now shows that we're laying stone on stones, not to mention, today, ham on the rails to get a more modern main road and road network. So I can say here and now that planning is clearly an important topic in the next national transport plan, because more efficient planning is a means of getting more projects in place. I must be allowed to come back to the concrete paintings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1853	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1858	There is an enormous need for new national road and rail routes in this country, but the planning process takes too long. These problems are the problems that have been created by politicians. That is why we politicians can also solve the problems if we want to, and if there is a majority in favour. In many cases, the main problem is that too much is left to the municipalities. We have horror examples of cases where the state road system and various neighbouring municipalities have not agreed on where the road is going. In other cases, the problem is that a number of government agencies raise objections to everything from salamanders to hubros. The Progress Party has always been a party seeking to combat unnecessary bureaucracy and the planning process associated with new national roads and routes is an example of an area that can be easily streamlined. Riksvejer is a national policy. Riksvejer is therefore not a municipal policy, nor is it a state policy. Therefore, the general rule should be to apply state regulation to road sections of national importance. The experience with state regulation is, after all, so good that it has been decided to use state regulation on the construction of a new double track between Oslo and Ski. So it's possible to leave far more of the planning to the contractors, so that those who build the road themselves make adjustments to what makes sense. The route E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand is fatal. This is a stretch that has been planned for over 40 years. It shouldn't be possible to spend that long on a distance. Between Kristiansand and Grimstad there is a motorway, and there is also a motorway standard closer to Oslo. So why not build a continuous four-field road on E18 from the Oslo area to Kristiansand in one jaf, instead of in pieces and parts? This shows that there is something fundamentally wrong with how we plan roads in this country. The job is becoming more expensive, and more lives are going on until the most necessary path is in place, if at all it comes into place. Quality assurance in the form of KS1 and KS2 often means more bureaucratic work without getting enough for it. We have to ensure quality, but we have to do something about time usage. There must be a balance between resource use and the benefits of the scheme. The Council of State recently called for an idiosyncrasy to hear views on how to reduce planning time. There I was, and it was very exciting. I'm now excited if she's ever going to use some of the good advice that came out there, to get a better planning time, or if it was an idea virtue for the sake of sight, and that everything is going to continue at the same pace as today. I am afraid that the latter is the case, but I hope for the longest time that it is wrong. Finally, when you have done well in the South, that means you get the job done quickly. I hope hard work means the same thing where the Council of State comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1879	Actually, I only have a brief explanation of vote for the Right and Christian People's Party, which calls for why the government party does not support the plural setting. Now Anne Marit Bjørnfacen has clearly done well because we are going a long way in supporting a national regulation. SV has been clear on a national regulation of the railways, among others. on the route Oslo-Ski. But if you look at the plural position of the committee, it's just the one transport plan that's going to have national regulation, and we're going to look at it, that's the one that's going to apply to roads. It is then clear that it is impossible for the parties of a balanced government, which is also thinking of the railway, to vote in favour of a proposal which will only give priority to the one transport plan. It is a simple explanation of why an unsupported setting can't be set.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1888	All those concerned with good transport solutions believe that today’s planning processes should become more effective. It takes a long time – it is well explained – and it takes a long time for a planning process, both in the municipalities and in the state. Then I would also allow myself to say that the opposition institute, which we have been in place for over a year, has become very extensive. In addition, the re-combination regime on trajectories and funding is very large in the whole country. It takes an incredible amount of time when you get all the different aspects. I think it has to be a requirement that objections come to the table immediately, that you are aware that there is a need for some body to have a wish and a need to state that here we have to do other things – that you know it from the beginning, so that you don't run a planning process for years and then come up with it. Then I think you'll be a good piece on the way. Then I'm quite clear that a government plan can be the solution in some cases, but not as a general rule. I don't think that would be so time-saving either. But there has to be room to cut through faster when you have gone a long way and see that now the road has come to the point where one has to make weighings, cut through and say that then we go on. I believe these aspects are well assessed in the work being done in the Ministry of Transport, and I am sure that we will find solutions that will reduce the planning time when we come to the treatment of the national transport plan. This means that I cannot support the setting of decisions, but I am sure that the NTP will come up with a solution when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1899	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1917	In February 2007, I traveled a similar interpellation. At the time, I said that this kind of debate is going to be quite short-lived, because this is not a topic that makes neither voters nor the media flock about it for a very long time. Since that time we've got a few votes in the public room. That's good, but we still see that reactionary sex in some environments creates a significant cultural conflict. I will be quick to stress that this way of thinking is not reserved for a particular religion. You can also find varieties of it on the stands during a football match or in the football team's wardrobe. However, the difference between most people living in hiding in the closet is that they often have other environments to seek support in, and that they are not always subject to it in part enormous social control that LHBT can be exposed to with different ethnic or cultural backgrounds. Islam has no monopoly on religious dark men. We find them in most religions, and religion is not a single factor either. But in the overall picture, it is not uninteresting that imams do the best they can to unsightly and suppress LHBT in their own environments – by denying that they exist at all. Being counted as non-existent does not necessarily feel as more gentle than getting a blow to the face. That silence, combined with deep social mechanisms, works, because, for example, LHBT Muslims do not dare to stand up, but send anonymous calls for help in the country’s newspapers, or apply to Skeiv World or Skeiv Youth – important organisations that are very vulnerable. Skeiv World seeks to assist its members in the best possible way in matters related to asylum issues, sexual exploitation and prostitution, social conditions, mental health, threats and violence. I want to commend the government for supporting the organisation – the Right fully supports it. At the same time, it is impossible for such an organisation to perform all the public tasks that public Norway is partly failing in relation to its members. I myself sit on the board of Skeiv World and get the regular impression of living conditions for people. It's like turning the clock back at least 70 years or more in time. Just as during the regular caricature struggles, there are many who are concerned about suffocating – for some I would say understand in whole – and use the word dialogue in about every other sentence. But part of that dialogue is too many in that you risk giving in to forces you don't want to feel at the heart of things. Those cancers benefit from human rights violations, discrimination against women and homophobia. But in the case of Islam and the relationship with LHBT, I really think many of those who are perpetrating violence against young homosexuals, and who are discriminating, maybe they are not the ones who are the most diligent to go on Friday prayer in the mosque. I also believe that one in the political discussion often tends to emphasize the role of imams to a much greater extent than Muslims themselves do. There are also surveys that tell us, and we in the political environment perhaps give them a greater role than they deserve, by all the way pointing to the imams like the ones we're going to be in contact with. We in Skeiv World have received several rough examples of what some of the members experience: If you are looking, as most gay Muslims do, for information about homophilis and Islam online, you can access quotes from the hadiths via links that describe in detail how to kill homophilis because homophilis is a worse sin than murder. Similarly, in the Bible, there is a kind of light version. But fortunately, there is access to corrective information here. Religious groups from both Pakistani and Somali communities are active outside and counter to members of the Skeiv World – monitoring people in the environment. There are a number of examples of how, for example: Somalis have faced individual members in a rather uncomfortable way — to put it mildly — and you don't get them to report hatred or to report to the auxiliaries when the moral police or close family are right behind them and exercise their negative social control. Lack of competence and interest are key points. There is hardly any research, and what exists is partly carried out without help. What is done is largely done by gay and lesbian themselves – of course out of self-interest. But where is social responsibility? A broad human rights perspective is important, but it must not lead to the fact that the group I am talking about today falls at the bottom of the status hierarchy. Homophiles themselves have little knowledge of immigrant groups, and homosexuals with immigrant background have little knowledge of homophilis. The school student knows little and conveys even less, and e.g. in Oslo, it is easy to ignore the fact that there are homosexuals among ethnic minorities. There is reason to ask the Ministry of Knowledge about the school environment for these. Asylum seekers often do not have the concept of ‘homophilia’ from their country of origin. They fear the state power, whether it's police or bureaucrats -- maybe the most fearsome interpreters, who might know someone and spread negative rumors. Often the word ‘homophilia’ is not mentioned in the first interview. This, of course, weakens the credibility of the further asylum process. In Norwegian training, all prejudices about gays are heard from fellow students. Nevertheless, we expect that after a very short period of time, as a kind of washed-up homofil, one should have acquired a Western understanding of identity like homofil, and may point to a number of practical examples of its exercise — so that at least it is not what prevents residence. On the Board of Skeiv World, I am with a human being who has been told to return to Iraq. It is a person who has emerged publicly and participates in homoactivism in Norway. So he is told to go home, hide and adapt when he comes to Iraq. How easy is it? And – not least – what kind of signal effect does it give? It's possible that Mulla Krekar has a stronger lawyer. At the reception, several of our members in the Skeiv World are at risk of being placed with others from the same country, where they are at risk of experiencing harassment, sexual assault and rape in the first residential situation in Norway. They also do not always have the resources to get help from the receiver. As far as HIV is concerned, the group is traditionally overrepresented in HIV statistics, not necessarily from the most met countries, but most have no knowledge of condom use and the vulnerable situation they are in. The impression so far is that the use of condoms is very rare, and therefore the risk of infecting others is also high — probably due to deep social challenges. Through the Cairo Declaration, the Muslim world made a reservation that human rights should apply to homosexuals. In cooperation with Catholic and Christian countries, they managed to remove homosexuals from the UN Convention on Torture and Inhuman Treatment in the last autumn of 2010 to the United States, etc. put the foot down for individual countries. This and the fact that laws against gay practices are now being produced worldwide, or so-called propaganda, rather than removing such laws, show that the international legal situation of homosexuals is under pressure both culturally and politically to a greater extent than those in Norway may be aware, and there are religious groups from Western countries that are both economic and cultural drivers of such development. It's quick to make people poor. In particular, it is easy to implicate LHBT people with a migrant background. It's not my intention. We also need to talk about the proud, strong and open LHBT people with a migrant background and not put everyone in a booth called ‘alcohol abuse’, ‘psychological health’ or ‘suicide rate’. If we just focus on it, it doesn't inspire exactly that to get out. The inclusion requires something from quite a lot. One challenge is that even parts of the so-called homo-environment do not include immigrants. In the media, before this debate, I almost warned homosexuals against sex and party. It's a little bit away, to say it carefully. But some of the least inclusive that exists can be part of the homo-environment. It's an environment that should preferably have the best assumptions for being open and tolerant, but that can definitely be worse than other parts of society, not least against the group that my interpellation is about. Hillary Clinton said last week in Geneva that LHBT rights are human rights, and human rights are LHBT rights. However, public Norway is under-coordinated and consciously addressing the overall challenges of LHBT people with a migrant background in Norway. The group falls between all the chairs, and the different chairs don't seem to be too interested in helping. Whether it's IMDI, Nav, school, health care, police, UDI, etc., they need more knowledge and interest. The human rights focus makes this part of the Minister for Gender Equality. But in a way, it is a little bit decorated for the coordination of all the other sectors that have to be done. I would say that this group of people is not taken as seriously by the auxiliaries as they are with more organisations. State and municipality must come in with heavy shooting. Of course, it's a challenge that, naturally, there aren't so many open to get hold of, but without a proper bet on the few who take the burden of organizing and being open, that situation won't change with the first. What is the government’s strategy and action to improve this group’s everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e1955	This is one of the times when an interpellation debate in Stortinget can contribute to something important, I think, and I would like to thank the representative for raising the question. Some of the bravest people I've ever met in my time as Minister for Gender Equality are the activists in the Skeiv World, those who have chosen to take a load by standing up and being open about themselves, which I think gets others of us to fully understand what is involved. I've heard them tell about the harassment they've experienced, about a treatment that no people in Norway are going to have to experience, and I feel a strong commitment that we, as a society, are going to stand up for these, which, as the interpellant just said, is not weak, or victims, but very strong people. I've also had the pleasure of meeting one of the world's two open gay imams, who was also a strong person who just traveled around with another and alternative understanding of what the religious view of homophilis should be. We have a major role in gender equality and integration policy in confronting the social control to which too many young people with minority backgrounds, homosexuals and others are exposed. It's a big and important task for all of us. The government's vision is a society of equality for all and the absence of discrimination. Everyone shall have the same opportunities, regardless of gender, function, age, ethnicity and sexual orientation. Discrimination is a violation of human rights. It affects the individual, but it also affects the social, political and economic development of a society. My department has the task of coordinating the work of the government to promote equality and combat discrimination. This work focuses on both the development of legislation and the effective enforcement of existing anti-discrimination legislation. Action plans are one of the most important tools we have to target and systematise this work. In 2008, the government presented the action plan Better quality of life among lesbians, gays, biphiles and trans-persons. The action plan has a range up to and including the next year – 2012. This plan pays particular attention to the discrimination experienced by LHBT people in different phases of life, social contexts and working life. The action plan provides the basis for a comprehensive effort to improve the living conditions and quality of life of this group. The general work of the government to create greater transparency and to combat discrimination against LHBT workers in the workplace, at school, in organisational life and in the context of health and social services is currently helping to improve the daily lives of many. The implementation of these measures also benefits many LHBT people with a migrant background. But I agree that we need a specific effort directed at LHBT people with immigrant and minority backgrounds. The action plan therefore contains a number of measures specifically targeted at that group. I'll mention someone: Action 3, which deals with research on LHBT people in the immigrant population measures 19, which relate to measures for unaccompanied minor asylum seekers who are lesbian, gay, biphilic or transhumance applicants; Action 20, which is about action against coerciveness, which is, of course, a significant challenge for people with this background Measures 21, which are linked to the same measures 22, which offer support for vulnerable LHBT young people with a migrant background Action 34, which is about dialogue – with clarity – with the cross-border organisations in the field of migration Action 37, which is about strengthening the focus of the information programme in state reception for asylum seekers Action 38, which sets out guidelines for the treatment of asylum seekers who are subject to gender-related persecution Most of these measures have either started or been completed. However, we need to move on, and a milestone in this way is the establishment of the LHBT Centre in the autumn. The Centre has been given — and will continue to have — important tasks in improving the situation in life, not least for people with a migrant background. The Centre shall include, inter alia: work to provide a better knowledge base for actions against these target groups, and they shall work concretely to get this perspective into the research calls they have made for this autumn, which they will also do in the future. This applies, inter alia, to: a large life-cycle project on lesbian, gay and biphiles and a life-cycle project among trans-persons and persons with gender identity issues. We have asked the Centre to have – and they will have – people with a migrant background as a central focus area in 2012. I'm also proud, and glad, that during my period as the Council of State, we have been lifted up the work of Skeiv World and other organisations and individuals working on this issue. As a result, – as the interpellant mentioned above – Skeiv Verden was converted into a fixed operating grant from 2011. I think that at last is one of the most important things we do, because it is to contribute to people's struggle for their own liberation and to support those who dare to be open. Skeiv World has departments in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. They're providing professional information, they're doing a fantastic job. Although the interpellant is sure to be aware of this, I would like to mention that Skeiv Verden Trondelag and LLH Trondelag have completed a two-year project, funded by IMDI, which deals with forced marriage in Middle Norway. They've also developed a brochure that's translated into nine different languages, and that's an example of what's happening here, and that's what this is all about. In 2011, Skeiv World also received an activity grant from the Directorate of Children, Youth and Family for an action on communication and LHBT from a minority perspective, including the objective. is developing a network resource, a web portal, about homophilia and Islam. I am concerned that the LHBT perspective is to be incorporated into the work of the public utility. The emphasis on LHBT shall continue to be placed on the fight against coerciveness and honour-related violence in 2012. The problem is addressed in specialised seminars for staff in housing provision for young people over and under 18 years of age and for professionals at other levels of government. As part of this work, the LHBT perspective is central, for example: as part of a service development project that we are undertaking in the field of family protection and enhancing child protection competences. Here we need, among other things: a particular focus on the challenges LHBT people face in religious and/or immigrant environments, where we know that there is little tolerance for both homophilic and non-conventional gender expressions. I also want to mention that my department is working on a whole new law on the prohibition of discrimination because of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. The new law will provide a general protection against discrimination for homosexuals, transsexuals and persons diagnosed with transsexualism. In my view, a new law prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression will both strengthen legal certainty and contribute to changes in attitudes. It is also an important objective of legislative change – by law, we set standards for our society. Under that law, the protection of homosexuals will be extended to all areas of society, only with the exception of family life and personal relationships. And we get a clear protection for trans-persons and persons diagnosed with trans-sexualism by making gender identity and gender expression their own basis for discrimination. It will also ensure that LHBT persons with a minority and immigrant background have a stronger protection against discrimination, stronger rights to beat them in their own environments of repression and harassment. I would also like to mention that the multicultural newspaper Utrop in 2010 received support for the project ‘Carting and Special Edition on the Mental Health of Gay Immigrants’. The special issue on homophilis was published on 23 November this year. As mentioned above, measures affecting LHBT persons with a migrant background are many. I believe that we have laid a good foundation for the work in this field, and fortunately a lot has happened since the interpellant took up the topic last, in 2007 – but if that is enough, is a completely different question. Now that we are about to start the evaluation and completion of this action plan period and plan what we are about to do, the question of whether there are more and better actions we can take against this group is very central. I would therefore like to thank the interpellant for bringing this up. It gives us an important opportunity to take such a discussion in advance of that evaluation, and I hope we can use the debate across the parties and get good ideas. In any case, I want to take the good ideas that had to come with me, and see if we can't get them into the forthcoming work on the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2012	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't doubt the commitment, because I know this is something the Council of State is concerned about, like the undersigned and several others here. I wish there were even more. It's a theme that creates some headlines in between, but it's kind of not what people go and think about when the camera lights are off. That is why it is so important that this small group, who has experienced the worst things, is debated here today and taken seriously by the Council of State. It is very good that it should be researched and provided with a better overview, but I mentioned that there have been some inconspicuous attempts to get an overview. I'll do one example. For example, when you have: send out questionnaires to find out something, you can't just let the students sit in the class, sit next to other foreign-language students and fill in, so they can look over the shoulder on each other. Then it becomes like that, as you call out in the woods, you get an answer. The operating support for the Skeiv World is good, because it is a very demanding task for such an organisation to work with the mass of people who have little organisational connection, little experience with what you really do in a government, how some relationships work in such a developed society as Norway. That's very good. I want the Council of State to say something about the asylum issue. Everyone here agrees that a strict and fair asylum policy should be adopted, and we are not dealing with individual matters in this Chamber. But if you want to look at sending open gay activists in Norway out of the country and assume that they will live in hiding, the government can say something. It's not that easy to live in hiding after you've been open gay in a country with a lot of TV cameras and media that's shown this, and where you've been committed to changing the law to create better relationships. Then it's a pretty big challenge to be sent back to a country where you're not guaranteed to get any special warm welcome, and it's quite difficult to hide. So a question related to HIV. I know there are HIV strategies, but this group has no particular focus in government strategy. The school is primarily a municipal responsibility. But we know that e.g. Here in Oslo School and in some other municipalities, there is a great deal of bullying and harassment that the school management takes very little seriously. They do not assume that there is a person with, for example: Muslim background, which is also homophilic, and allows this simply to happen, and then these people are sitting there alone. In terms of hate crime, we have under-reporting in general. Here we have a group that doesn't dare go to the police because of social control. There are examples of them traveling to Sandefjord and Westfold to report damage to their bodies after being subjected to violence from close family. But I want to thank you for the openness of the Council of States. From the Right, we want broad cooperation to make the situation better for a group that very rarely gets the attention it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2029	I agree with several of the things the representative now raised. There is no doubt that there have been some attempts to gain knowledge about this that we cannot trust without delay. This is a matter of taking particular account of the methods used in relation to a group which in the first place rarely dares to be open about their own identity. I know there has been a dialogue with the Ministry of Knowledge, that they are also familiar with issues relating to the student survey and the possibilities of actually providing truthful information. Of course, you won't do that if you're afraid someone's standing over your shoulder. I also know that the department has contacted the Municipality of Oslo to discuss it more closely, after some concrete examples in Oslo School. As far as HIV strategy is concerned, I think it is just an example of a topic that would be useful to discuss in the context of the evaluation of the LHBT action plan, for my goal is to continue to be able to get a job in this field that leverages the breadth of the ministry's action. There's nothing my department can do alone. We can coordinate it, but we need other departments with it. Then it is useful to bring up these examples in other disciplines, so I will take that with me. This also applies to the issue of asylum policy. It's a field under the Justice and Police Department. I'm going to be careful to go too far on behalf of another department, but I think I can still say that we want to look at that problem, and add that I think it's a very important question. I also note with great interest the signals that came from the UDI yesterday, where they are just pointing to possible solutions here. It would be natural for us to follow up with a political discussion around. In his first post, the interpellant also raised a couple of other questions. I think it's an interesting discussion how we relate to some religious environments, because we might, in the integration debate in general and perhaps in this debate in particular, sometimes do too much of making the religious leaders a communication point for the dialogue of the big society with a not insignificant part of our population. It's a big cross of thought, because we rarely use the priests of the Norwegian Church as a primary target group to discuss with everyone who is a member of the Church of State. I think it's a correct observation that it's not necessarily the same as the most religiously active who stands for the brutal harassment. That's why we have to think through our way of communicating and who we're communicating with. I am also concerned about what has been mentioned about our international work. I can come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2040	Thank you to the interpellant for raising an important case for people who need to be seen by governments and communities. We have many and long debates on better integration of immigrants. We see that it helps. The Nordics have a predominantly positive view of immigrants and their contribution to society. We see it when it comes to sexual minorities. Attitudes can be influenced. Prejudice is fighting, but there's still a way to go. The interpellant highlights LHBT individuals with a migrant background, people at risk of double discrimination — perhaps triple, whose gender expression is added as a third dimension. If it's possible to grade discrimination in evil, worse, worse, worse, I fear this group ports in the category worst. Getting their identity or identities attacked by many sides can ruin a life, and – we can add – especially when people not only have to deal with discrimination for ethnicity or sexual orientation, but perhaps the hardest attacks on their person within their own ethnic or religious group, sometimes also from their immediate family. The problem has been seen. We have an action plan for better quality of life for LHBT people. The status report 2011 shows where we are in implementation. Much has been done, but the most important thing – if the measures are effective – is that we know too little about it. Research and knowledge development are therefore important. The action plan and the status report cover a wide range of policy areas, stressing the inter-pellant point. The issue of discrimination against LHBT individuals is complex. Responsibility is divided into many sectors. Coordination is necessary. Each of us must also be critical of its own responsibilities – for its own part as a member of the Council of Europe delegation and the Municipal Committee, responsible for immigration and integration. On 31 March 2010, the Council of Europe Council of Ministers adopted a unanimous recommendation to the Member States on measures to combat discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, the very first international instrument for the rights of LHBT persons. The negotiations were difficult – it says so. However, under Norwegian leadership, it was finally agreed to include the right to personal security, freedom of assembly and organisation, the right to respect for private and family life, freedom from discrimination in school, working life, health and housing sectors and in the sports arena, as well as the right to asylum on grounds of persecution on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity. All Member States, including Norway, will soon be measured if we have followed this up. Although the interpellant primarily asks about the quality of life of LHBT people in Norway, I would like to make a few comments on the last point from the Committee of Ministers, namely the right to asylum. The status report refers to government guidelines on persecution due to orientation and gender identity, that good practice and guidance are reassuring. But: Number from UDI shows 77 pst. rejection of gay asylum seekers only in the last two years, with notice of returning home and living discreetly. Would we have accepted a «travel home and be discreet» to an asylum seeker journalist or a political activist? Have we put in place a practice in which human rights and protection needs are sorted out in a worthy and less deserving way? Policy unfortunately shows that something is fundamentally wrong with our mindset. Prejudice exists where they shouldn't be. The joy is that the status report is already out of date at this point, practice is no longer considered reassuring. In September, the UDI initiated a change of practice following a British Supreme Court judgment, where the court finds that the Refugee Convention protects the right to live freely and openly as a homosexual, without fear of persecution, and that the fact that an applicant can avoid persecution by concealing his sexual identity does not deprive him of the right to refugee status. When a well-founded fear of persecution is the central reason why an asylum seeker will not live openly as a homosexual, the applicant fulfils the conditions of the Refugee Convention. Therefore, practice is no longer considered reassuring. The Ministry of Justice has promised the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation to look at the instructions. The Labour Party of the Municipal Committee has asked the government to put this into practice. The interpellant has contributed to our giving that message now. When the 2013 Council of Europe identifies the status of the Council of Ministers' recommendations, such discriminatory practices should be history for the longest time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2061	For a while I, together with the representative Oktay Dahl, had the joy of meeting the winner of this year's Rafto Prize, namely the Ugandan organisation Sexual Minorities Uganda, and one of its leaders, Frank Mugisha. It was an incredibly strong experience, and it is strong because it is so rare in Norwegian politics that you are confronted with the world's truly harsh realities. It is in many ways comfortable for most people to live in Norway. It is convenient for most people to have a different political opinion and, fortunately, for most people to have an equation that is different from that of the majority. In other parts of the world, it's not like that. In Uganda, we are currently fighting not only against discrimination and xenophobia but also against organised campaigns to pursue the promotion of homosexual practices, which is the expression they use. It says something about this not only being an important discussion and important fight in Norway, but also an important global battle. I am very pleased that both the Council of State and previous speakers from the Workers' Party also address Norwegian responsibility in this context. I think it's a paradox that people who are gay, or LHBT people are sent back to their homeland, and ask them to live discreetly, while at the same time giving residence with the greatest of course – which we also have to do – to people like, for example. has a different religious position from that of the majority. But it is not that we open our eyes to send Christians back to land where we know that they are being persecuted, simply because we can fold our hands and pray for solitude? It's not a sustainable situation, and it shouldn't be for others either. Then I think that this debate also illustrates something else that is important, namely that in the debate on integration, tolerance and values in Norway, we often end up with meta-batters. At the latest today in the evening post, there is a chronicle of the representative Amundsen, who in turn has some good points, which are essentially about the values on which we are going to build the Norwegian community. Such large metadebats about Norwegian culture are important, but in practice they are about the small, concrete, important measures that actually make a difference. For example, as in Oslo, where one has what is called Oslo Extra Large, as among others. involves systematic work in schools throughout the city, both in the east and in the west, where information on homophilis and LHBT is also available. My point is simply that when discussing integration and the meeting between different cultures, including the meeting of prejudices in other cultures, we often discuss at a general level. But when it comes to the problem, it's about what measures are actually taken. Then there is a chronicle in the evening post well and good, but what is really important is that you have an appliance, have measures, have campaigns and drive focused work over many years. It's important. In the end, I would like to link some comments to the work further on this. It is important to clarify what is the situation. It is also important to be aware that the Storting has a normative function. This debate itself, although it – as the representative Octay Dahl says – may not cause the media to flow into the hall and perhaps not be reported on in all channels, may be important for those who get it done, and especially for those who need it the most. But one of the most important things may be that the auxiliaries are aware of the issues, that public services, together with non-governmental organisations not only conduct passive monitoring of living conditions and living conditions, but also actively seek to see if you can get into environments and help people who need support and support. Then I will finally take the opportunity to give honor to the Council of State for the important thing he did when he walked in and defended that one should have the Gay Pride parade through Greenland. It is very important to say that there are some fundamental values in Norwegian society whose prevalence and respect do not stop at the entrance to a particular geographical area or at the entrance to the godhouse of one type or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2084	First, I would like to say that we all might have had a more or less strenuous relationship with metadebats this fall after the debate on the debate on the debate – but that was not what I was going to comment on. First, I would like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant on an important topic, and I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. There are strong stories that emerge, and there are strong stories that Skeiv Worlden tells us, perhaps especially about being a young homophile with a minority background in Norwegian school today, and the issues you live with there. I would encourage the Council of State to have close contact with the Ministry of Knowledge on these issues. I myself am part of a party that has always stood in front of the fight against discrimination, and I am proud of that, because it is one of the fundamental discussions and struggles we have in society. When the representative, Røe Isaksen, says that it is a basic Norwegian value, it may have been that way today, but I would like to say that there has been a struggle to make it a Norwegian value. It has been no more than 40 years since being a homosexual in Norway was prohibited by Norwegian law. It shows that values aren't cut into stone, we have to fight for what we think is right. Not that all ethnic Northmen are prejudiced. We still have a pretty long way to go. It's one of the issues that this debate is also about, which is what happens when racism and homophobia meet, and how we fight both of these battles at the same time. Otherwise, I want to draw out Frank Mugisha and Sexual Minorities Uganda, as well as the representative Red Isaac was inside, as an incredibly important and beautiful voice. There's an example of what both the inter-pellant and the state council had in mind, that these aren't people who are weak or poor in any way, but they're perhaps the strongest people we have in the world. It also testifies that it is extremely important that Norway is a driving force in international work to ensure rights and better living conditions for lesbians, gays, biphilis and transhumance. Finally, I would like to say something about what has been said about asylum. I think it's incredibly paradoxical that in a country where we're constantly fighting about who's most for freedom of speech, people are sent back, out of the country – and thus oblige them to live in hiding. It is now that several European countries have changed their practices in this field. Norway should do the same. We should listen to the recommendations made by the United Nations, and we should change that practice – something else we cannot live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2101	Interpellation addresses major and important questions. It's about a tension from immigration policy to mental health. Generally, it's about being able to feel safe, seen, loved and accepted as the one you are, no matter where you live and where you come from. Governments have well outlined government action and strategy to improve the daily lives of lesbians, gays, biphiles and transhumances with migrant backgrounds. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is not necessarily easy to live as a homophile, a biphile, a lesbian or a transperson with Norwegian background either, although most fortunately live good lives. We still have a long way to go in the fight against discrimination, hatred, bullying and suicide. For LHBT people with an immigration background, the path to a good life may be even longer than for those with a Norwegian background. Norway was one of the first countries in the world to have a partnership law, and now we have a common marriage law. Nevertheless, ‘homo’ is one of the most common shelling words in school. We must not underestimate the need to work to improve the acceptance of homosexuals also in the Norwegian environment. We need to work systematically with attitudes at school, at work and in organisations – and also in our own circle. It is important to have meeting places with other gays, lesbians, biphiles and transpersons, and it is important to feel welcome in other networks. This is not just the job of the homo-organisations — the community youth team, the football club and the schools have at least the same role to play. For the Central Party, it is important that no one is prevented from participating and living as they please, because they are being discriminated against. All shall have equivalent opportunities, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, level of function, marital status, place of residence or ethnicity. We don't accept that ‘homo’ is still going to be a shell word. We do not accept that a self-appointed moral police condemns LHBT individuals, either when it happens in Greenland or in the Bible belt. We don't accept that some people feel like sexual refugees in Oslo because life in the village gets too difficult. Of course, we do not accept that LHBT people with a migrant background are being harassed either. That is why I am pleased that this issue is now being raised, and for the measures taken by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2116	Human dignity and equality are principles that we all agree on. But it's just when someone seems different, and like when you look different than the majority, our tolerance is put to the test. So the equivalency isn't just a principle we're going to agree on, it's an exercise we're going to do every day. We know from experience, I think, most of us, that we, both politicians, the media and the general public, also have a tendency to maybe go a little bit in groups as to which groups we always pay the most attention to in order to combat discrimination. Similarly, we are at risk of over time excluding groups that deserve even more attention. That's exactly why the theme that the interpellant has traveled is so important. It's a valuable debate he's been initiating, because LHBT people represent themselves minorities who carry stories that tell that society hasn't succeeded in just that exercise. Lesbian, gay, biphilic and transhumance in minority settings may face particular challenges. Just in a debate like this, it is important to stress that there is a great difference between immigrant environments in that context, but we all know that there are major challenges in those environments that have that kind of challenges. Many important measures have been referred to earlier in the debate. Several measures point back to the Government’s action plan on improving the quality of life of LHBT people. I want to highlight the need for more knowledge – not only for more knowledge, but also for actively disseminating knowledge and information among employees at reception, at school and out to people most. There is one measure that I don't think anyone has mentioned, unless I remember wrong. It is the action, as also mentioned in the Action Plan, on the establishment of an inter-religious Council. Now it is said here by several that we should not overestimate the importance of having dialogue with religious leaders. That is an analysis I fully agree with. At the same time, we should not underestimate the importance of the dialogue we can have with the leaders of those environments, because in some of those environments, especially in the religious environments, it will be that there are some of those concepts that you prefer not to use and that are taboo. The authorities shall never oblige a religious community to change its practices or beliefs, at least not to change its faith or religion, but to establish a dialogue that actually requires a dialogue on issues you may not be talking about, whether words or concepts you may not otherwise use, can actually be of great importance. I am pleased that the family and cultural committee in the budget that we discussed yesterday collectively refers to the important work that the Skeiv World is doing on the very issue that has been raised here. Finally, I would like to mention the asylum policy, where today we send out a strange signal to the immigrant communities when we believe that people can be sent back to live as other people than what they are. I must point out that it is strange that we have such a practice when we have a debate today where all parties say that we should not have it that way. On that basis, I had hoped that the Council of State would have been even more clear, but I want to be happy with the treatment of UDI's new advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2133	As a society, we have been too poor to put the life situation of LHBT people with a minority background on the agenda. In fear of being perceived as xenophobic, we have not always seen people being held down in minority settings. This has hit women in general and gay women and men in particular. We have one, not two, standards for equality and equality in Norway. Everyone living here should be able to choose who they marry, and no one living in Norway should be subjected to violence or discrimination based on who they are. We often think of discrimination as something that some people attribute to others in society, that some people treat others in an unsubstantial way, or that some groups do not have the same opportunities as others. The discrimination we are discussing today is different. It's about how people look at their very closest, in the family, and how they look at themselves. In an anonymous post in the Evening Post, a gay Muslim 20-year-old used the words desperation, despair and shame about his situation. And he writes: "I don't know how many nights I've been crying and asking what was wrong since I got such a huge burden I'm writing this personal article about myself, to tell my story. [[...]] To tell you that we gay Muslims exist. That's right, in the shadows. But we exist." The representative André Oktay Dahl deserves great thanks for giving us the opportunity to discuss this topic. As a member of the Board of Skeiv World, he knows the problems that LHBT people with immigrant background experience, well, and I think he has presented the challenges in a very good way. At the same time, I would like to thank the Minister for Child and Gender Equality for his excellent contributions. Many of the government's actions speak for themselves, but I would particularly like to thank him for stressing the importance of the work done in Skeiv World, and for stressing that the government will keep assessing whether that is enough. The Gay Network of the Workers Party has been involved in this issue for many years. In 2006 we put the theme on the agenda when we arranged an open meeting entitled ‘Homo in the café – straight in the mosque?’ There we focused on the dual morality of religious leaders and the lack of ability or willingness of the Norwegian big society to address a major challenge. A lot has happened since then. Not least, we've had a broad debate on the topic, we've got good plans, we've got the organisation Skeiv World and our first known open gay with minority backgrounds: Amal Aden, Majoran Vivekananthan and Kaltham Alexander Lie. But there's also something that hasn't changed. We know that many young people with a minority background, with different religions, are exposed to threats, coercion and abuse. Although religion is only one part of this, it is of little help that the Islamic Council of Norway has still not, in principle and unequivocally, distanced itself from killing homosexuals. Earlier this year, I had a visit to the Stortinget of a group of LHBT students from a major secondary school in Oslo. There were some great, strong young people who impressed me in every way. They told me about a day of school and home that scared me; about violence and shivers at school, about threats and fear at home, about how difficult it is to reconcile religion, identity and self-respect, and about how important it is to know someone in the same situation. 2011 has been a year with many setbacks for LHBT rights internationally. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has mentioned Uganda. In Eastern Europe, more countries will now restrict the freedom of expression of homosexuals. In many countries, LHBTs are being persecuted; in eight of them, the death penalty is for people like us, and the country of expression and equality Norway is still openly returning gay asylum seekers to these countries with a message of discretion. It's outrageous and unacceptable. It is important that this practice is changed in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe and that we have the same practices as in Sweden and the United Kingdom. The Labour Party will fight all discrimination. Everyone has the right to live in openness and as whole people. Our solidarity also includes those who are oppressed in the name of the family, religion or culture. That solidarity must not only be translated into words, even if words are important, but also in action. In government, we've taken historical steps towards equivalency for all sorts of LHBT people. We're not in goal, but as long as we're in government, we're going to take new steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2163	Let me first thank the interpellant for traveling an important theme. I would also like to thank the Council of States for showing a genuine interest in and offensive attitude to the topic. This is about society's tolerance, and it requires the broad political consensus we experience in this debate in this Chamber, in order for us to succeed. The combined presence of the Storting signal, and the fact that other elected bodies in Norway such as county councils and local government and others travel the theme of tolerance in general, contribute to increasing the tolerance of society. Giving each individual person room to live his life for the best of himself and his surroundings gives in some a good society. That's where the tolerance begins, because we unfortunately know too well what the consequences of intolerance and the ruined lives it brings. In this context, there are several arenas and areas we need to focus on. We must raise this issue as a topic in schools – in education, in educational institutions – and the organisational life must come into contact with this, and congregations, which are mentioned by several, are an important venue for discussing tolerance widely, including within the framework of religious understanding. The importance of corrective information in the face of intolerance, or what I would call narrow-sighted interpretations in relation to LHBT individuals, is also important. The Council of State also pointed to the merit of the fact that discrimination is a violation of human rights – I believe that is what the Council of State said – and I fully agree. That is why it is also important that the government and we, as big-scale representatives on international arenas, face up to tolerance in an upright and consistent manner. Because tolerance is under pressure, as several of the participants in the debate have been, and then there is a need for someone to lift the tab and speak the interests of minorities, to talk about tolerance, so that we also have it with us in our meetings with international colleagues and in international forums. Thank you to the interpellant, and also thank you to the Council of State for an uplifting response.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2176	I would like to thank the interpellant for taking the initiative for an important debate. The Labour Party is working continuously with the aim of creating a non-discrimination society, with equality for all. The basic thing for us is that everyone should have the same rights and opportunities regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion and sexual orientation. As the Council of State stated, action plans are an important tool to target and systematise efforts to achieve the political objectives of the government in terms of promoting equality and combating discrimination. The action plan on better quality of life among lesbians, gays, biphiles and transpersonals is a practical outcome. Although we have the formal rights in place, targeted measures are needed to achieve real equality. One of the measures in the plan was the creation of the LHBT Centre, which was opened in November. The Centre of Visibility, as it has also been called, shall gather and share knowledge of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. The Centre shall contribute to enhancing competence across public sectors and shall further systematise, manage and disseminate knowledge on the field. According to the budget proposal, the Centre is to become a powerful professional community for the benefit of various trade unions, municipalities and LHBT organisations. Interpellant calls for coordination and awareness of the overall challenges facing LHBT people. The Visibility Centre will contribute to this. Minorities are being persecuted in many countries. Cruel and unacceptable drugs are raging homosexuals in too many countries. As the interpellant takes up, the problem is for example: Homophil Muslims are difficult here, too. The lack of acceptance of parental and religious leaders makes it difficult at all to put the problem around it on the agenda in the most important environments. An anonymous homofile Muslim put in the Evening Post word on the background between him and the environment he was part of: ‘Why don’t I stand up? As I often tell myself, rationalizing to my parents that I'm gay, and being accepted, is as meaningless as convincing them that I'm going to move to the sun. There is no logic in that." It is almost unwise to discuss taboo areas when homophilis as sexual orientation are non-existent in Pakistani culture, he writes. This is recognizable. I myself have discussed this on trips to African countries and have experienced that seemingly modern people are laughing and shaking their heads when one claims that there are also homosexuals in Africa. No, it's a western mental problem, they say, which they haven't happened to. Then the constructive dialogue is necessary. Therefore, the research and knowledge work at the LHBT Centre is also important in order to create a documentation base that is not so easily ironed under the carpet – not in environments where the theme is taboo and homofilament is non-existent. In the context of a range of other measures, this is a way of creating a deep ground and understanding across cultures. When the difference in how one understands reality is like an excuse, the debate is marked by condemnation. As long as understanding does not exist, hope for progress in the situation is minimal. Information and documentation are, therefore, an essential premise – a step on the way to leading the debate closer to real conversations and understanding. State Council The Lighthouse and others have been involved in several actions that together are a good attempt to try to improve the situation of lesbians, gays, biphiles and transhumances with a migrant background. The field is complex and complicated. Development needs to be closely monitored. Furthermore, evaluation shall contribute to assessing whether the measures improve the situation and whether adjustments and even more measures are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2203	I would like to thank you for a good debate, for a good response from the Council of State and for the fact that almost all parties have been represented. It's perhaps a little surprising that the biggest thing, which is usually very talkative, is not here – I hope it doesn't mean that not the whole Storting prioritizes this topic. I am also pleased with the international perspective. Norway is a world-wide exception to LHBT rights, and we take too much for granted. Some gay people do too. They don't get involved in the debate. It can be a little scary when you see developments around us. We can look at the countries from which the group I was talking about comes, but we can also look at our neighbourhoods. You can look at the situation, for example. in Russia, where it is considered to prohibit both parades and so-called propaganda – simply talking about what LHBT is for. It's worrying. This is a country that is not very far away from us. It's not far to get here for those who live there, you might say. As I mentioned, there are also religious groups in the West that contribute to lobbying in relation to that kind of campaign. As for that parade on Greenland, I've been in it a couple of times. The only people I've experienced who have been negative there, at least very visible, have been Christians. There has not been one Muslim who has stood along the parade, but there have been some Christians there – not very many, rightly so, but they had large posters where they tell how sinful you are. This illustrates, to the extent that the representative, Mr Grenis, points out that we still have a general debate in some settings in Norway. Not least in times of economic crisis, by which we will also be influenced, all economic cycles show that when economic recessions decline, respect for minorities also goes down. The battle that has been waged is not something to be taken for granted. It has to be fought every day, both in terms of the group I have taken up, and the group that is the vast majority of homosexuals in Norway, namely the so-called ethnic Norwegians. But we're not going to do it in different ways. We have to use the same instruments, be as crystal clear and not just vases because, incidentally, someone, maybe, has a different religious background. At the same time, we should remember that LHBT people with a different background are proud of their culture, they are proud Muslims, they just think that Islam should also open up to them, so that we do not hold a general Islamic debate. I notice that when I address this kind of question, that then I get the support of people I couldn't possibly imagine I would get the support from, while also getting the fuck out of my mind because I'm semi-racist. So it's pretty interesting that this debate is very difficult to take and get it to end up in the right place. I'm glad it's a broad consensus. I hope it's so wide that all parties support this, and not least that it's not just going to be party speakers in the future. Although we all agree in this room, there are many practical challenges that need to be addressed, but at least we have started to continue the job that we started when I took this up in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2218	Greenland is my own neighborhood, but that's how not everyone feels as welcome there as what I do. Several speakers have taken up the Pride parade, which has begun in Greenland's camp in the last two years. I think it's been important. It has happened as a result of cases of hatred, violence and social control in that part of the city. It's an important signal to demonstrate, which I also tried to do early in my time as Minister of Inclusion by going over Greenland along with Amal Aden, a profiled social debater who doesn't dare to go there alone. There are no exceptions in Norway for the laws and regulations on which we want to build this country. No cities, no strokes, no streets in our country are except these. But I noticed exactly the same thing as the representative Oktay Dahl did, that when we had gone a bit on the parade of the year, the only open protest was a one-man demonstration with Bible quotations. It may be a useful reminder to all of us that conservative, reactionary attitudes are not reserved for one religion. Just as we have historically supported, and still have to support, those who have fought for a more liberal view within Christianity, for example. Open Church Group and others, we need to extend the solidarity perspective to those who are fighting for more liberal interpretations of Islam, to members of the Skeiv World or to another organisation that has recently entered the state budget, namely the LIM Network – Equality, Integration and Diversity – which consists mainly of liberal and secular Muslims. Our work internationally has been taken up. It is a tough, but important job Norway is doing in many international forums by taking up the LHBT perspective. It's not popular, but I think it's something we can be proud of that we're consistent in doing it. It means a lot to many that there are countries that dare to talk about these things. I promise to do my part to follow up this debate on the continuation of our action plan for the LHBT population. I would very much like to receive input from all the parties of the Storting. I am very pleased with the broad participation in this debate. It's a striking exception. I must say, it is sad that the second largest party group in Stortinget did not find a single representative who had time to participate in this debate. What that means, they get to explain themselves. But it is a signal that provides, among other things, their own rhetoric in the debate on immigration and integration in a very special light. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2229	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2240	The cancellation goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2248	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 3, from Ingerd Schou on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left The President will table the vote in such a way that proposal No. 3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, is first raised to vote after we have voted on the vote on the motion for a resolution, when proposal No. 3 assumes that the Grand Duchy has adopted paragraph 3. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a new case for the expansion of the Dovreban between Eidsvoll and Kleverud, where the eastern route is under construction, as well as a double-track/capacity extension plan Oslo-Eidsvoll. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size consents to the deployment of E6 on the Minnesund-Skaberud route in Akershus and Hedmark as described in Prop. [[2011-2012]] 13 S and the Innst. [[2011-2012]] 118 S
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2293	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it. Left supports setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2312	The President has understood that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2325	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal concerns a postponement of the follow-up to the Storting decision at point 3. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to postpone the follow-up to the Storting decision, paragraph 1. 3, in Inn. [[2011-2012]] 118 S The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it. The President assumes that the Advance Party will do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2348	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Storting rejects the extension of the North-Jear package in Rogaland as described in Prop. [[2001-2012]] 28 S Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2436	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2446	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2454	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a funding solution during 2012 to implement a national broadband broadband broadband broadband broadband broadband target across Norway.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan to simplify legislation so that broadband deployment is not unnecessarily expensive.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2474	The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2491	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to clarify immediately the legal basis for the Oslo environmental limit so that the measure can be continued without delay.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2521	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to lift the environmental limit in Oslo.’ Left supports setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2543	During the debate, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:22 S [[2011-2012]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2566	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2571	The President has reason to believe that there are a few more after which the President could register. The President will try to clarify once more, so we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2584	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-16.ana.ud856e2596	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
