ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e122	From the Workers' Party's Group there is an application for leave from the representative of Thor Lillehovde on 8 and 9 June to attend the West Norwegian Council's Thematic Conference in Torshavn, Faroe Islands. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Farahnaz Bahrami, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e140	Farahnaz Bahrami is present and will take the seat. The representative, Frank Bakke-Jensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e145	On behalf of Siri A. Meling, Ivar Kristiansen, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on measures for the mining industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e150	Per-Willy Amundsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e153	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal that Norway will withdraw from ILO Convention No. 169, repeals the Finnish Law and terminates the Sámi language management area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e158	Mr Kjønaas Kjos will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e161	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Per Arne Olsen, Erlend Wiborg, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to propose a plan of progress to ensure an optional and dignified care of the elderly for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e166	All proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e180	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e189	I will begin by thanking the Cooperation Committee. The Committee strongly agrees that this legislative amendment that we are dealing with now meets the intention of St.meld. No 17 for 2007-2008 The State and the Norwegian Church. The Committee also agrees that the proposed amendments to the gravitational law will contribute far on the way to meeting and facilitating important needs to meet the freedom of belief and the wishes and needs of the religious and life-view societies in the context of tombs in a multicultural society. Necessary changes are made to the church law as a result of changes in the burial law and other changes, justified by other circumstances, such as adaptation to the new organisation of the performance service, which also means that the priests are no longer employed in the individual parish but in the prosthesis. In order to increase the ability of the relatives to comply with their wishes and to take human considerations both in the case of early burial and in the case of those who need a little longer time to carry it out, the Committee is in favour of extending the current period of cremation and burial to no later than 10 days after death. It is proposed to harmonise with the Children’s Act, so that, if the child is 12 years old, he/she should be consulted in the event of a change in the child’s religious affiliation. Police attestations may be issued to persons who are required to have certain types of duties, but it will not be an absolute obligation on the part of the employer/entity to require police attestations submitted in all such cases. The lack of meaning in the judgment of the Court of First Instance of 12 May 2010 was annulled. Today, we are in favour of a historic change in the fact that handwritten church records, given the regulation of 20 May 1645, are proposed to be carried out electronically, which will save local councils too much time. Where the parties have different views and different suggestions in the matter, I expect them to take this up for themselves. Then I would like to comment on the views of the Progress Party on the matter. In the case, it is proposed that a police certificate may be issued to persons with certain types of tasks in the religious context. The Progress Party believes, in line with many hearing bodies, that there should be a requirement for a police record. For the Progress Party, it is of great importance that all people be met with the respect and compliance of the local gravitational authority required by the situation, when they may be in the most vulnerable and evil situation that can be expected. Losing one's closest really never fits, regardless of age or health. Therefore, we are pleased that the changes in the law are not too rigid, but designed so that, in cooperation with other life and faith communities, local tombs still have the possibility of flexibility in relation to attendance and provide equivalent opportunities for worthy tombs regardless of tradition and outlook. At the same time, we believe that in those cases where the municipality does not have specially arranged graves, it is this one that is intended to cover the cost directly, not the Council of Commons, which can then weaken its budget for other church activities. In this case, it is decided that cremation is introduced as a normal scheme, and in this way cremation is treated as coffin burial. At the same time, the undue discrimination that must be paid privately for this is maintained. The Party enters in order to remove the statutory requirement that a fee may be levied for cremation. Thus, there will be a real choice and equal treatment between these two types of digging. Nor will the party of progress, as any other party will, allow for payment for both types of burial. For the Advancement Party, it is important to note that although the law should no longer be called a cemetery, it is up to the local church itself to decide which name they will use. The purpose of this matter is to adapt the burial law to all religious communities, but after all, the majority of the people of the country belong to the Christian faith, and for many it is important that burial takes place in the dedicated earth. Vigilance, which involves reading texts about death and the resurrection and pleading for the protection of the cemetery and those who rest there, is, as I said, of great importance. Therefore, there must be no doubt that a marriage can be carried out in addition to another ceremony when a new burial site is used. For this reason, the Progress Party proposes that marriage should be in the clear text of the law. I note that the majority will not give the same national dignity to the Northmen who fell during the war, as it is given to foreign excavators. This may mean that in a few years there will be only a few Norwegian war graves again. I am thus promoting the proposals made by the Progress Party alone or with others in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e229	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestions she herself mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e232	The purpose of the amendments to the Graveyards Act is to better facilitate the care of all Norwegian citizens’ needs in the context of burial. This is also a very concrete follow-up to the Church Agreement of 10 April 2008. I grew up in an average Norse family and have long known only the ecclesiastical ceremonial traditions of passing away. By being a member of the Church Committee of Storting for nearly six years, I have become acquainted with the rituals of other religions in both joys and sorrows. This is knowledge that is important for treating fellow humans with respect. The policy we are involved in shaping must reflect that we live in a society of many different religions represented. No matter which god you believe in, you're going to be met with respect when you're going to bury one of your closest. You knew, President, for example. That orthodox Christians should be buried so that their faces turn east? I am pleased that the committee – with a great deal of consensus – has adapted the changes in the law that we are dealing with today to the tomb of the diverse society in which we live. Let it be said that the Norwegian Church is in a special position in Norway today. Over 80 pst. of the population are members, and through a centuries-long tradition it has retained its special status — for a while — as a state church. Of course, the practice of various public institutions is marked by the fact that the vast majority of Norway is a member of the Norwegian Church. Nevertheless, despite broad consensus within the Committee, there have been some points of discussion. The first thing I want to draw out is the cost of specially arranged graves. The majority believe that the most practical and unbureaucratic is that the cost of separately arranged graves is covered by the Church Council. It should be emphasised that we expect the municipalities to discharge their budgetary responsibilities and to provide sufficient resources for the Church Joint Council to discharge this responsibility. Both Muslims and Catholics will probably need larger tombs in the future due to increased migration to Norway. For Muslims it is natural to be buried without a coffin, but wrapped in a garment. This is not a major problem here, because according to Muslim conviction, Muslims must follow the laws of the country in which they live. I also want to mention the spread of ashes. After a majority of the Boards of Appeal of the Proposition stated that the legislation on ash dispersal should be liberalised, the majority asks the Ministry to consider how to respond appropriately to this request. Hindus have e.g. a desire to spread the ash in running water, preferably in the Ganges river, but for some it would be natural to spread the ash in a river in Norway. In the case of cremation as a burial form, the majority supports the launch of an investigation into the possibility of economically equalising cremation and coffin burial. For Hindus, it is also important that the family be present during cremation. The ritual ideal for the oldest son to light the cremation fire is preserved through a practice whereby one of the relatives is allowed to follow the coffin to the oven and press the start button, as they do. has solved it by Bodin Seremonium, which I have visited, which is located in Bodø. It is gratifying that the Committee has agreed that the deadline for burial and cremation is set at 10 working days after the death. By that I believe that we are meeting the difference there is between the different religious communities as to when funerals take place. Everyone shall have the right to exercise his or her outlook on life. It is part of the universal human rights, which, among other things: establishes the right to freedom of belief and freedom of life and the right to protection against all indiscriminate discrimination on grounds of religion and belief in life. We here in Norway have a social arrangement and a culture that respects the place of religion in many people's lives. It is appropriate to say that today, as a general rule, it is going well when a Muslim or Buddhist is going to bury one of his loved ones, but it is because of the great goodwill and flexibility of both the believers and the actors who contribute to a burial. The new gravitational law to be adopted today facilitates the fulfilment of important needs for freedom of belief, as well as the aspirations of the religious and life-view societies in the process of tombing in a multicultural society with increased diversity of beliefs and lives. I am very pleased with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e255	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. The rapporteur has made a real commitment to bringing the Committee together on important points, and that has been a good thing in a matter like this. Like the other speakers, this matter is a follow-up to the church settlement and in many ways just a natural consequence of other things that happen. Otherwise, I must say, as the previous speaker, that it is sitting in the church, education and research committee and dealing with, among other things. this challenges you, and it challenges you in a good way. Growing up in the West in Western Indremition means that the horizon has widened considerably in how these things can be handled. It's an exciting new time we're going into when it's now being put in place for non-discrimination in relation to religion and life's vision. I'm excited about how this is going to be when it's going to be followed up, because I'm pretty sure we haven't been able to catch up all the nuances in this we're now adopting, but as long as the intention is the same, I think it's going to go very well. I also want to commend those who have been at our hearing, who have shown great flexibility and generosity by accepting transitional arrangements, and that one should make practical arrangements for the different things to be. But it's clear that providing life-vision-neutral spaces and adapted graveyards – what it may now mean by challenges – there'll be a lot of discussions about the future, but we'll be able to solve it. I am very pleased that there was an agreement on the deadline for burial and cremation, and that the committee could gather in ten working days. This meets a need that many have seen in recent times, for families live more widely than before, and takes the time to gather. It also provides flexibility for agencies, churches and religious communities to take into account both those who need to get things done quickly in terms of religion, and outlook on life, and those who need a little longer time. Then I want to stress that the point concerning the Church Council versus the municipalities is just a clarification, because in any case it is the municipality that finances it. But what's the whole point of that comment is to point out that municipalities have to take responsibility for the increased costs that may come from providing an organized burial site, in other places where it costs something more. What was not agreed in the committee was to go into the law and treat cremation and coffin digging completely. This may not necessarily mean that there is disagreement about it, but I understand that someone will take this on a later matter, as indicated in the setting, while others of us will take it now. I noticed that the case rapporteur also mentioned that someone would facilitate charging both coffin graves and urn graves. That's wrong. The only ones who have proposed changes at that point are the Right – we are fully behind § 6, where it says that one has the right to free grave, but what we have opened up to, is that the municipality itself should decide whether it is one type or another of grave that should be free of charge and how else one will affect it with regard to local conditions. Furthermore, our proposal to amend Section 21, on fees, is an update in view of what is a reality, because today, too, there are fees for coffin graves and urn graves, but then for the funerals that are not resident in the municipality. So this would have been taken care of in our proposal to Section 21. So it's been a little bit back and forth about which name to use. There's probably a lot of emotions and traditions in the different parts of the country. Now the majority of them have landed on the graveyard. The right has put forward proposals for ‘gravelund’. We think that's a better word and a word that's being used in a lot of places. We record that this is not a consensus. We're a little sorry about that, because we feel that many people have a much better relationship with that name. Finally, I address the proposals that the Right have made alone or with others in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e278	The representative of Svein Harberg has taken up the suggestions he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e281	We're now in the middle of some kind of deconstruction of the state church, and it's an exciting, difficult and necessary work. A modern society, characterised by diversity in belief and outlook, does not adhere to a state church of its own or to a state religion of its own. But at the same time, a modern society must have an offensive and positive relationship with faith and vision of life – it must not abdicate from faith and view of life, because faith and view of life are important elements for individuals and thus also for a society. What's important, and it's underlined by those who've had the word so far, is that you have an equal respect for, and, in general, curiosity about, different religious and life-view societies. There are not constant debates on that theme. In many ways, belief and vision of life belong to an important part of – shall we call it – the infrastructure of a society. There are some systems, some rituals, that have to be in place, and that we depend on throughout our lives. This point is very important to include in the major change work, such as: The church settlement now involves, and we are now facing it in a clear way in connection with digging. Because it's something that has to work effectively, that has to work well, and that has to work with dignity and respect, it's just all the systems around this with funeral, because it happens to us in a situation where we're particularly vulnerable. We need a community and some systems that work well when we get into that situation. I think that what has been presented here today, in a very good way, is taking on the changes that our society is now in the middle of. So, in many ways, I think we're the acidiest, and it goes that we really show – at least try to show it honestly – that we meet the different needs and ideas of each individual life and every religion has about it with funerals. I don't think we're quite the ideal goal. Based on the SV's own work and principle programme, we might have thought that we had come a little further, among other things. in the case of local gravity, that it was more neutral than the proposal we are going to adopt here today. But the point forward – and I think that Svein Harberg was in a good way – is that good local practice is now being developed in this area, and there is no reason to believe that it will not happen. There are so many good people out there who have just shown respect for different religious and life-viewing societies, and you will become even more acute in this area with the changes that are in place here today, which lie in this whole discussion of the church settlement. Because it's precisely by getting this roughness, this attendance, especially in the meeting between the local burial authority and the different religious and life-view societies, that we're really going to make this work in the good way that we're all looking for in this case. One of the somewhat demanding tasks facing local Norway or municipality Norway is the existence of life-vision neutral seremonirom. And there, I think maybe based on the hearing bodies, we've exaggerated the problem a little bit, because the impression I have is that most people have a very rough approach to what kind of space it should be. So in Kommune-Norge, where we have a lot of good community houses, and where we're gradually getting a lot of good cultural houses, it should be possible to solve this in flexible and good ways, if we're just adding this roughness that becomes so important in this context. Then I finished my post. Then I'm excited about the further debate. I also need to stress that there has been an interesting work in the committee, and that we have had a lot of good hearings. And as I said, I am particularly excited about the local practice that is going to develop further after we have made our decisions in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e298	Karl Ove Knausgård has written about death: "Death makes life meaningless because everything we've ever strived for ends it, and it makes life meaningful because its presence makes what we have small, incorruptible, precious every moment." Today, the majority deals with changes in the Funeral Act and the Church Act. The changes have their germ in the church settlement and aim to adapt the laws to religious and life-seeking minorities. Many of the changes appear to be logical and natural, yes of course, in a diverse society. And they are a confirmation of the good practice that is established in many municipalities today. When death occurs, and sorrow with it, respect and dignity for the wishes of the deceased and relatives becomes absolutely crucial. That's why the Center Party is pleased that the law now establishes a tabular paragraph that will govern the practical conditions around a tomb. There is also an authority to be able to derogate from the applicable legislation when it is indicated by the consideration of the religion or outlook of the deceased. With this revision of the gravitational law, we're going to get a life-vision neutral law. This does not mean that the traditions and rites of the Norwegian Church are diluted; rather, it is contrary to the law to clarify the rights of individual religious communities. That's why I think the opposition sometimes troubles some of the law changes a lot, and it makes it seem that here we take a lot of consideration. The central party is confident that the Church with the new law is well cared for, and that the Church itself makes the necessary clarifications through church regulation. The bill equates with the cost liability for specially planned graves, even when burial takes place in another municipality. It is today that it is the individual municipality that is responsible for providing funds so that the Church Joint Council can carry out its role as a graveyard manager in a good way. Therefore, according to the view of the Centre Party, it is obvious and unbureaucratic that it is the church councils that settle between themselves if people are buried in other municipalities because there are no specifically organized graves in the home municipality. This is also something that many municipalities work together well to solve today, and it has parallels to other administrative areas where municipalities cooperate in a similar way. Another charge that has also been discussed in this case is the fee for cremation. It is easy to see the paradox in the current law: those who want to be cremated may be charged when it is desirable to increase the proportion that is cremated, and this will in the long run be more reasonable for municipalities. The centre party therefore meets the alerted review of the entire system of gravitational charges and payment of user charges. There has to be a connection between political objectives and economic incentives, and I allow myself to say that in this regard I have a sense of the proposal of my central friends to let the municipalities decide for themselves, and consider it natural that that proposal is being discussed in such a further work. There are in particular two concepts that have been much debated as a result of the amendment of the law. It's about what kind of words are going to replace the term cemetery, and it's about marriage. First, it is to say that the majority's proposal on burial grounds does not matter in addition to being a term to be used in the law. Around the whole country, there will be historical and local variations in the concept of ‘property’ that are determined locally. People have a relation to the term used locally, and not to what the term is in the legal text. Let me also stress that the right to marry graveyards is not restricted by the new law. The Committee has spent a lot of time discussing the deadline for cremation and burial, and I will give tribute to the rapporteur for the fact that the Committee is here in ten working days' time. The Central Party considers that the 10 working-day compromise provides a good balance between different considerations and is not least a time limit that is more adapted to the current situation. The section of the tab page will also be steered here; it will be flexible to meet the different needs and traditions of the individual tomb. Norway currently has restrictive legislation in the field of ash dispersal. At the same time, more and more people want to spread the ash, and there is reason to believe that this trend will continue as cremation becomes more and more common. Clarification of today's legislation is necessary, and I welcome the Ministry's review of how we can liberalise the rules on the spreading of ashes. Today's decisions confirm important principles and good practices around the end of life in a diverse society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e327	In the face of death, we are vulnerable. We live today in a society that hides death in many ways. In the old days, death had a more central place in human daily life. You had a level playing field, and you had a greater openness around death than we have today. When we're going to bury our neighbors, we're in a vulnerable phase. Getting a funeral according to your own faith and your own view of life is important to us. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is important that everyone, regardless of his life's vision, be given a worthy burial. It was also important for us in the State-Church negotiations. We know how important it is to us, and others claim the same dignity that we want. Minorities, through these changes, secure a dignity around their funeral forms. This does not mean that our Christian majority will no longer be allowed to bury according to their needs. The ecclesiastical councils have been delegated responsibility for the cemetery administration. It is a public responsibility to provide burial sites and to establish arrangements to ensure that burial and burial takes place in solid, orderly and dignified forms. The Gehönes-School said: ‘Everyone shall be buried with dignity and respect for personal beliefs/views. As far as possible digging must be carried out in accordance with the rules required by each religion or tradition. If this is not feasible in each municipality, solutions need to be found regionally.’ However, good advice on what is feasible is important. It should not be left to each tomb in the face of mourners. The Christian part of the population has also received an adapted legislation on what is possible, and good rules must be drawn up in dialogue with other religious and life-view societies that are worthy and enforceable. The large survey conducted in January 2010 shows broad satisfaction with church services. Some of its keywords are: high scores in treating people with respect, being able to attend, listening and explaining decisions. It shows that the delegated management of the Joint Councils has been managed wisely and with respect for fellow believers. However, through what the government parties are likely to adopt today, they take advantage of the wise management shown by the joint councils. Now each Joint Council is to receive the bill if it has not been prepared for different believers in its own municipality of residence. It's a mystery to me that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party will add up to a system that could lead to an unnecessary conflict locally. Although you have the utmost respect for others, there is no doubt that when you sit with the annual budgets and can't afford deacons or youth workers, but you have to take the bill for more Muslims to be buried, it's stretching the goodwill of a council, and there's cimers to conflict. The Joint Councils have been delegated a responsibility, but it is the responsibility of the public – the municipality. In addition, the same lots have cut down to the bones of the State appropriations of the General Councils. It is unwise to add up to something that could lead to a conflict between people of different faiths. It's not right for the councils to take the bill for Mangfolds-Norway. It does not make the matter any better that it is followed up with a wish from the same parties that they hope the municipality will compensate for this. With regard to today's eight-day deadline for burial and burial, we have received many requests that today the exemption is used very frequently, especially in the case of cremation. Therefore, it is with great satisfaction that I see that the government has increased that deadline, and that the government parties here at Stortinget go a little further and go in for 10 working days. It will be much more consistent with current practice. But it is important to stress that human consideration is to be taken into account, and some will need a quick funeral. They should also have the opportunity to do that. In the case of user payments and charges, the Christian People's Party supports the establishment of a sample. But we are already aware that a change should be made, namely that the municipality itself must choose where the free grave should be – whether it is about cremation or coffin burial. That's why we, along with the Left, promote a proposal that we ask the government to change the law, so that you can get a fee for coffin burial or cremation. The name and concept of the law is not the most important thing, but we go in order that it should be called burial grounds and not burial grounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e353	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e357	The topic we are dealing with today – the tomb law – may seem strange to have a long debate on. But it's really a pretty exciting political field. There are many political balances that meet, and some creativity is required to find the right solutions. This is a follow-up to the church settlement. There is a field where a very good job is done around the country, and there are very few conflicts associated with this field, which is hurt, especially and important to all of us. I have to say that after e.g. having followed the burial service in Oslo – which has many religions and many different perspectives – I see very few conflicts associated with this. So that means there's a lot of people doing a good job around the country. I want to mention some themes that have been important to the Left, and that we are going to follow up. We also see the term "graveyard" as it is the word most of us use about a single grave. We wanted to be able to use the term "grave ground," which we perceive as both neutral and cumulative for what we actually want to prove. Then you go in to increase by another group that is allowed to obtain a police certificate. That's why I'm just going to repeat what I tend to repeat when we expand with enough a group – which we do weekly in this room – that I'm skeptical about being stopped by a police record. I'm terrified that there will be a sleeping cushion, and there is hardly anyone in this country who can't be required a police record for his job – either on a voluntary basis or on a permanent basis. I don't think that has led to any big change. But I realize that the Church wants to have what everyone else has. They're getting it today. But I have repeated Left's scepticism against believing that this is good. I also see that we are coming to a point where we have to ask how much police resources we spend on issuing more police certificates to each individual citizen, based on the different roles we have in one day. Then there is the charging policy, which is also part of this. The left believes that charging policies are something to be used to get the changed behaviour you want. The behaviour here is about land use in relation to urn graves and coffin graves. In some municipalities it may be desirable to have as many coffin graves as possible. In other municipalities, such as: the municipality in which we are, with very little area, it would be desirable for the municipality to stimulate as many urn excavators as possible. We believe that people will have to choose the sea if it is to be urn excavator or coffin excavator, but we also believe that the municipality will have to choose which of the types you want to stimulate through its charging policy. Therefore, together with the Christian People's Party, we want to shift power down and give the municipalities the opportunity to charge one of the types of tombs to stimulate the pattern of action they want in each municipality. Then to ash spread. I believe that all the hearing bodies you read say that this should have been more liberal. We generally believe that you should be liberal in most cases, but this is a field in which you could have made a much brighter code. I'm glad that we get the support of the Right on that, and I hope that the government, who says it's going to discuss this, will take those signals. Finally, I want to mention it with worthy serum. SV said this is not such a big problem. That's probably a lot of places. I've been told that people have to hold the ceremony themselves in the parking lot next to the church, because you can't find a room to have a ceremony in. I believe that the municipalities should stimulate having good seremony that both gives dignity and is open to the different ways of life. Here I believe the government should have gone further to get solutions. It is important that municipalities that build, for example: fine cultural buildings, think about whether they have the ability to use some of the areas of that type of space, and include it in their planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e374	In recent decades, society has been characterised by increasing cultural, religious and life-seeking diversity. There is some background to the point of the church settlement on tombs management, where current legislation in this area is to be continued, while adjustments are to be made to protect minorities. The main objective of the proposals now under consideration is to better facilitate the provision of burial services for the needs of religious and life-seeing minorities in the context of burial. Our tombs are going to be for everyone. I am pleased that the Committee on Important Points is united on important adaptations. It is important that we agree on the direction of such issues, which are sensitive to many. The main prerequisite for burial with respect for the religion and outlook of the deceased is that there is sufficient knowledge of the needs of different religious and life-view societies. Local gravity authorities have gradually gained more knowledge and have become increasingly good at meeting the specific needs of minorities. I believe that the proposed legislative changes will support and reinforce this development. A central question is how to ensure specially arranged graves. Such arrangements should normally be made in the municipality of residence of the deceased. But the municipality can, and should cooperate somewhere on an offer. The cost liability for burial in specially arranged graves shall be treated as equivalent to graves in its own municipality. This also raises other issues relating to the system of gravitational fees and payment of user charges. I note that the Committee is in favour of the Department considering setting up a sample to address the need for system changes. In my opinion, the question of any financial equality between cremation and coffin burial belongs in that context. A minority in the Committee also proposes that the law should lay the financial responsibility for the separately organised grave directly to the municipality of origin. I believe that I would break with the responsibilities between the municipality and the Church Council in the Tombs Act and be a little practical. But I also expect the municipalities to provide sufficient resources for this, without prejudice to other tasks. I would like to make it clear that the Norwegian Church is still going to be able to consecrate new graveyards. However, a provision on the inauguration of new graveyards should indicate that the faith and life-view communities shall have equal access to the implementation of a vested remoni. In my opinion, such considerations mean that the law does not use the term “church” in a graveyard that should be common to all. The changes in the law do not prevent a local person from using the name as ‘churchyard’. There are arguments for and against both ‘graveyard’ and ‘graveyard’ as replacement words. I think there may be regional differences in the sense of language in this area, and I have noticed in particular that the bishop and the bishop of Bjørgvin was particularly opposed to using the word ‘grave’. An extension of the current date for cremation and burial may take place in several ways. I have no objection to the Committee meeting within ten working days. Some would like to dig as quickly as possible, or during the first few days. The rule will not prevent it. The consultation has taken the view that the legislation on ashification should be liberalised. I note that the majority of the Committee wants the Department to assess in an appropriate manner how this can be achieved. I am pleased that there is now also a new home in the Church Act to require the submitted Child Care Certificate, which is the technical designation, by the addition or engagement of volunteers in the church. But I also agree that a police record cannot replace other measures to prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e405	In my main post, I was concerned that today we are making a historic decision. What I was about to do was that in the case, it is said that provision should be made for the registration of church acts in the future to be carried out electronically and possibly in connection with the electronic membership register, and that amendments are proposed in Section 37 of the Church Act in line with this. This has been a wish from the Church for several decades, and it is suggested that electronic church records combined can save between 15 and 20 million. kr for the ecclesiastical councils. The question is, how soon does the Minister realize that this change can be made effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e410	It will depend mainly on the existence of good IT solutions that can be used by the individual Joint Council, and it will have to be turned upside down in a national solution. It's working on it. It will be a budgetary question for both the Council of Churches and for us, so we may have to come back to that in the annual budget proposals when the technical conditions are clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e415	Today, when dealing with the proposition, we set up a case where the government was riddled with people in the Kingdom of Norway, but the Norwegian Church took the bill, namely the Santa Claus Act. In addition, the government today and the government parties here in Stortinget want once again to be a little rusty on behalf of the Church. The common councils are the ones that are going to take the bill for Mangfolds-Norway. It's a mystery to me that you want to add up to a conflict of interest that can create a disturbance between religious and life-viewing communities at local level. Why does the Council of State and the Governments want it to be added here to a payment system that requires the Joint Councils to stand in the elections between the affording of deacons and youth workers and the digging of other believers in their own municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e420	I believe that the proposal we have presented here today is in line with the agreement reached by the Stortinget in 2008 – that there should be no change in the current organisation and funding of the Church. That's some of the background because I think what's today's proposal is the natural proposal. I believe that if we were to put in place a single billing system, where the municipalities had to set up an office, a system, to pay directly to other councils, it would be a bureaucratic system. I am confident that the municipalities, together with the joint councils, will find good arrangements for this. I also have expectations that in the municipalities where the joint councils find that other municipalities can be used to dig, good arrangements for funding are found in the annual budgetary discussions between the municipalities and the joint councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e425	I noticed that the Council of State will follow up on the ash spread. I hope that she also notices what the Right and Left write. But I would like to ask about the charging of various types of graveyards. We want to shift that power down to the municipalities, so that they are allowed to decide what is actually the most practical in terms of their challenges, for example. area. My question to the Council of State is, why is it not possible to create such a system? Now we're going to put forward a verbal proposal, which will be discussed later. We can hope for even wider support when it is finally to be dealt with in Stortinget. But does the Council of State not understand that the municipalities here have very different needs to stimulate a lot of land use or to stimulate a low level of land use?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e434	Yes, I understand. As I said in my reply to the previous replicator, I have been very busy challenging what I perceive is some of the principle in the conciliation, that you should not change funding and organization arrangements. This at least limits to some of the questions I think we have discussed quite thoroughly in the conciliation. When we say that we're going to get back to this, it's among other things. based on the consultation opinions of this proposal, where several municipalities and several Joint Councils have delivered opinions on this issue. These crack in a lot of directions. So I think there's a need to get through the complex properly. I'll come back to it. Then I do not overlook the fact that in this work we will discuss whether the municipalities will be given greater freedom of action to establish their own arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e441	Norwegian and foreign trenches are an important part of our history. Therefore, it is important that these are taken care of and protected by the same law. Foreign excavators are protected forever, while Norwegian trenches receive more random treatment. The majority show in a comment in the setting of the case that according to § 27 of the funeral regulation, the cemetery authority can save individual graveyards with tombs when there are reasons for doing so. They also point out that the Ministry has recommended that this access be used when Norwegian war trenches would otherwise be deleted. What I'm asking is whether the minister is sure that this will take care of Norwegian trenches in a good way. What we might experience is that when our children and young people go to a cemetery and see foreign trenches, they might ask, "Wasn't there any Norwegians who were there defending the country during the war? Does the Council of State feel that this is well taken care of?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e450	I do. It is now very difficult to have a full overview of which traps have been buried, which are Norwegian citizens, because many of them are in family graves. But where there are special memorials, I am sure that locals will ensure that the monuments of war that deal with Norwegian declines in the war are well preserved in the future. But we won't be able to have a complete overview of all the Norwegian failures, because we don't have a central overview of it. As I said, there are very many who lie in their own family graves, where there is no indication that this was a fall during the war. But where there are monuments, I have good faith that the locals will manage this in a good way, and make sure that it is maintained in the future in a way similar to that of the foreign war tombs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e456	There's nothing in the state-church agreement that says it's the Norwegian Church that's going to take the bill for Mangfolds-Norway. It is the responsibility of the municipality and the public to facilitate the burial of other believers, where it has not been arranged in its own municipality of origin. The arguments used by the government parties in this case are largely practical – it seems impractical to implement it in a different way. But I really just have a simple question, and it's: does the Council of State see at all that this can be a germ to conflict between different religious and life-view societies locally and the Councils of Commons?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e463	We have delegated the Tomb Authority to the Common Council of Churches, and I believe that the Church Council of Commons – which has also been expressed by many here in the Chamber – will also manage responsibilities towards other religious and life-view societies in a good way. I also believe that, in meeting with the Joint Council, local politicians will take into account the specific challenges that may arise in this context, in a sensible way in their efforts to provide good budgets for the Joint Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e468	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e473	The tombs are important landmarks of war, they are an important part of the Norwegian conquest of war. British, French, Polish, Russian and Serbian war graves have Conventional Protection, and today they will also have legal protection. That's good. It is good because these are national memorials, these are memorials that the nation of Norway has a responsibility to care for in relation to the memory of a war in which we participated and which resulted in five years' occupation of Norway. This is important in order to preserve the memory of those who were killed in Norway for Norway, but also important in order to show respect for those who fell on the other side. I remember that German trenches also have protection, and it is, of course, good that they have. We agree that we need national legislation in order to avoid mistreatment at local and regional level causing these graves to disappear, but I think it is sad that the government today chooses not to give the same protection to Norwegian war graves. The next five to ten years are, in so far as some of the graves are still protected by other paragraphs of the Tombs Act, but in the decades to come, this protection will disappear, and these graves will be able to disappear unless responsibility is assumed by the State. War memories are not a responsibility for the municipalities, it is a responsibility for the state. I think it is good that German soldiers who fell in Norway now also receive legal protection so that the graves – the memories of their efforts in Norway – are preserved, just as against Norway. I think it is good that Poles, Frenchmen and British who gave their lives for Norway in Narvik Section, get legal protection, but I think it is sad that fighters from Finnmark, Trøndelag and the West who gave their lives in Narvik Division do not get the same protection that they give to everyone else who fought for Norway in 1940.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e488	I record from the Council of State's response that one wants to extend to the utmost the wise handling of the joint councils. I think that's a shame. I think it's a pity for Mangfolds-Norway, and I think it's a shame that we add up to a system that can create a disturbance and an unnecessary conflict locally. I came out a little bit to talk about the speaking time in my main post, but I also needed to say a little more about the law's name and concept in the law that is included. The most important thing here for the Christian People's Party is that it should be possible to have a local name that fits on site. If the tomb area is located in close proximity to the church, it is important, it may be right, and it should still be allowed to call the area the cemetery. So in reality, what we're here changing, is just the name of the law and the ability to use other terms in new areas. The Christian People's Party believes that the term "grave ground" has a more valuable form than "grave ground" – both because it can be understood as the individual tomb when talking about a burial site, and also because it may be associated more with archaeological excavations than with a cemetery. So we want to go in for the term “grave ground” as the term in the law. With regard to the police record, I believe it is right that the Norwegian Church also has an opportunity to demand it for those who work with children and young people, in line with others. But I very much agree with the Left when it comes to their concerns that this is going to be a sleep cushion, and that we are not working against abuse in other areas. Because we know that this is not a guarantee; it may be a security in the first place, but it has to work in completely different areas. As important as it is for minorities to have funerals carried out according to their beliefs, it is for the majority to have funerals carried out after their own. That is why we are in favour of this proposal which clarifies that there should still be an opportunity to implement marriage. I record that both the government parties and the state council here have confirmed that it should still be allowed, even if one makes changes to the law, and that is Christian People's Party pleased with. It seems to me that a good solution has been found in the first place: they secure minorities, different believers, so that they get a worthy burial based on their beliefs and their outlook on life. But I still think it's sad that the government parties want to let the councils take the bill for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e503	I find it sad that it may seem that the representative Eriksen wants to create a conflict between those who are buried church, those who are Muslims and those who are non-believers or anything else. When the majority has chosen to go in order for the Church Joint Council to continue to have the responsibility of administrative responsibility on behalf of the municipality, it must be a prerequisite that they take this responsibility and act on behalf of the entire municipality's population. It is then the responsibility of the municipality to ensure that the Joint Councils have sufficient resources at their disposal to carry out their tasks. I think it becomes a little special when, over and over again from this pulpit, there is a conflict about giving priority to youth work, or – as the representative Eriksen said – burying Muslims. It is then used to promote a kind of conflict that I think is completely unnecessary, and it is suggested that this conflict also continues in the municipalities. I think it is the few that would have thought of, in the midst of grief and burial, that they were in conflict with the youth work of the Church Council, or that they would otherwise destroy the work of the Church Council. I also hope that the Church Council does not find it a great burden when, on behalf of the municipalities, they have been given responsibility for burying Muslims and others in a dignified way, and that of course it is also included to take the costs associated with this. I think it is unnecessary to use this speaker to promote the kind of conflict that Eriksen's representative is doing, and I hope that there is nothing going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e512	Dagrun Eriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e515	The final article of the representative, Mr Wickholm, shows that you do not understand how you work with the annual budgets of a Joint Council. Obviously, when you sit with the budgets, you have to set things up against each other, just as we have to do here in Stortinget when we're doing budgets. That means that there's a germ to conflict with. If Wickholm believes that this is just a conflict created by Eriksen, it shows and illustrates to all its extent that the government parties have not understood the scope of the proposal they are adopting. I would like us to be at peace with each other and be able to find arrangements that made it possible to create the least possible possibilities for friction and conflict locally. The government parties could have done that in this case, which you have chosen not to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e520	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e536	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e545	I will begin by commending the representatives of the Christian People's Party for a good proposal. The working party shares the concerns of the disadvantaged in the housing market, and is also concerned about facilitating people to move from renting to owning a home. A stable housing situation is an important prerequisite for a good life and has a positive impact on health, occupational participation and other conditions. An unstable housing situation has the opposite effect. The starting point of the proposal is a model from the Municipality of Fränna which has in a short time concluded that the municipality has purchased a dwelling, financed by a grant from the House Bank and a loan that the municipality has raised. There has then been a five-year rental contract, where the rental has been set for the residents to be able to pay. After five years they have been able to buy the dwelling. Based on the positive experience of Fräna, the proposers want a national regime. There is something that a joint committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, also wants. The broad majority share the wish of the proposers to strengthen the capacity of disadvantaged people to enter the housing market. By letter to the Committee of 10 December, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs announced that she would open up a new and more appropriate lease-on arrangement through the Husbank. The majority are satisfied with this, and believe that it may also be appropriate to consider other rental-before-eie models in the context of the notified wholesale survey on housing policy. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are committed to assessing whether and how housing laws can be allowed to set up such projects. The model we are discussing today is a good solution in municipalities where a dwelling is a house. It is not adapted to the needs of multi-household buildings as the norm. The Party of Progress is committed to warning against retail regulation, considers that the scheme will not work and claims it is expensive and difficult to administer. The use of the concept of ‘detail regulation’ must be due to a misunderstanding. The government's rental-before-own model is not a government order, but a tool that is offered to municipalities. The majority are concerned that municipalities have a wide range of instruments to assist disadvantaged people in the housing market. It will be up to each municipality to assess whether this and other instruments are appropriate. The proposal therefore extends the scope of municipal action and, at the same time, gives more difficulty in choosing whether to rent or own. It is difficult to understand that there is a need for state-to-state detailed regulation. In addition, the scheme is neither expensive nor difficult to administer – on the contrary. And the experience of Fränna is so positive that the claim of the Progress Party that the scheme will not work seems completely unreasonable. I got the floor first, President. However, it is my alternate who is listed in the committee position and on Stortinget’s websites as the case rapporteur. This matter has been under discussion in the Municipal Committee since 6 December last year. I was elected case rapporteur at the committee meeting the following day and have been the rapporteur on the matter while the committee has been dealing with the matter, and I am here today. The background to the fact that my alternate is still considered to be the case rapporteur in the administrative systems of Stortingen, is that I had leave because of another assignment for Stortinget on the day the matter was submitted to the committee. I understand that the setting has to be set this way. I still think it is remarkable that Storting’s websites and other documents should not be correct. The practice that the rapporteur follows everywhere else as a chance meeting as an alternate when matters are given is not based on Storting's Rules of Procedure and at best gives an inaccurate impression, at worst creating practical problems. How should you, for example, do this? Did it deal with whether my alternate had met for another representative here today? I have raised this matter with the administration of the Storting, without luck, and will therefore ask the presidency to change this practice. Let me stress that it's not about assigning honor or guilt, but that formalities should reflect actual circumstances. It's generally a good driving rule. Finally, I would like to mention that this matter is an example of the opposition being heard when private proposals are made. We've been through a lot of rounds in this room where there's been a question mark about why not the government parties can only vote for things they agree with. This case is also an example of why there is no good idea: the government's lease-before-self solution is a better and more flexible solution than the Christian People's Party originally proposed. But we achieve the same thing: strengthening the opportunities of disadvantaged people in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e562	Today, we are considering a proposal from Kjell Ingolf Roppstad, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Knut Arild Hareide and Rigmor Andersen Eide to turn the lease-before-owner scheme into a national scheme to ensure a difficult-to-use facility on the housing market. We in the Progress Party are concerned that all human beings should have a safe place to bow. However, we are concerned that housing policies should not be detailed in their everyday lives. The most common thing in this country is that most people buy and own their home. A minority rent a dwelling or a cage with family or friends. We in the Progress Party understand the intention of the proposers, but to us the proposal appears to be an intervention in a regulated housing market, where in our view it is not desirable to create expectations of a bus participation through public support schemes. We in the Progress Party believe that it is of course a good thing to own your own dwelling. However, it is a reality that far from all the possibilities of owning their own housing, and we find it difficult to see that one of the arrangements contained in the proposal by the Christian People's Party representatives can achieve the effect the representatives want, simply to eliminate all the housing waste. We in the Progress Party also believe that such a system as the proposers propose will be very difficult to manage. It will be bureaucratic and will entail considerable costs. I would like to show here that the proposers of ‘the unique feature of the scheme is that it includes elements of both housing social work, economic advice, follow-up at home, fights, work experience and more’. We record that the proposers have calculated that there are 6,000 people without their own housing. We mean that this calculation is highly uncertain and inaccurate. We still think that this is a very common group of people who have a long-term and unclear continuum. We are also concerned that this proposal can create a great deal of discrimination because it is intended to take care of certain groups of people. When it comes to giving ‘gifts’, it will always be so that someone will fall outside. There should also be rules to ensure that there should be specific groupings with a specific income base to participate in. Then there will certainly be a lot of people who feel lost, who are just above the income line, and who may be spinning and saving to be able to buy their homes in the ordinary way. There will be conflicts here, and they will feel lost. We're concerned that you should avoid meeting people who feel lost because we have a code that says they can't participate in this scheme. The progress party chooses not to support its proposal and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e578	I refer to the more formal considerations of the rapporteur, and I can join them in dealing with the appearance of the real rapporteur in the official papers. In terms of content, the representative, Mr Haugli, explained this practice by agreeing to the content of proposals, from the majority in this Chamber, in a slightly special way. I believe that we need to be able to listen to proposals even when they come from the opposition, if we really agree with them. Now it seems to be a reflex movement to vote for proposals that you verbally say you agree with. Then you get a room for action by saying that the Storting has not decided anything, even though there may be a real majority in the Chamber for the proposals. So here, there's a lot of politics and maybe not so much of what I would like policy to have more impact, namely being solution-oriented in relation to the groups we're set to serve. With regard to the very content of the proposal from the Christian People's Party, we believe that there are important concerns for vulnerable groups in the housing markets, but from the Right we will also point out that it is the municipalities that have a primary responsibility to settle their population, even on the basis of local knowledge of what works in the local environment. Therefore, we will be careful to introduce new national schemes as a requirement, and will rather refer to the municipal autonomy and local knowledge they have of their user groups, as the basis for a locally anchored housing policy. We know that some municipalities have a very long experience in running extensive social housing. In this city, for example, large increases have been made in the housing sector over different periods by a different majority. It is not surprising, then, that big cities have developed their housing policies in this direction, because big cities attract groups that are very often weaker – they are looking for big cities. Then I would also like to say that the group that the Christian People's Party refers to is very complex. It is not certain that the same measure will be accurate. I don't think it's that refugees and drug addicts in the same spirit as social or economically disadvantaged people have exactly the same needs. I want to point out the big difference: some people have social problems because they don't have an orderly housing situation, while others have a disorderly housing situation because they have social problems, and then different measures have to be taken. Among other things, the loss of demand is due to the lack of income, which is largely compensated by our social legislation and social legislation, as well as by the housing support schemes that have been developed. This clearly points to other groups that, in the social policy context, will be more similar to client groups that may need accommodation. There may also be talk of groups in the transition phase. I think that's where we're going to show that municipalities, especially based on their local knowledge of the individual client groups, can develop good deals. This means that the right also expresses satisfaction with the letter that has come from the ministry, which also indicates that it will come back to an assessment of these schemes in connection with the long-term announcement of housing. We will await this, and until further notice we will be pleased that the proposal of the Christian People's Party is one of the questions to be further considered in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e595	I just want to start by doing the same thing as Håkon Haugli, which is to give praise to the Christian People's Party to promote the proposal. I hope that the Christian People's Party will also do a job of convincing other opposition parties that it is useful to make proposals, and that you get the government with you when the proposals are good. I think we can see that in this case. Let me start with the basics: it's a human right to live. The reason why it's a human right to live is because everyone has to live. There is no alternative to living. No one can stay. That's why we have to have a housing policy that basically ensures that we have a housing supply that is large enough to provide housing for all people, and then we have to have a policy that ensures that those who can't afford to get a dwelling get the opportunity to get a dwelling in another way. According to my opinion, the Oge Starheim comments completely on this when, in his post, he says that the kind of retail regulation we put up with here is something that is stupid, and it is preferable to let the market be governed. If the market controls housing policy and you get too little active municipalities in relation to land policy and regulation policy, then it is built too little housing. If too little housing is built, the prices in the housing market will also increase. If housing prices increase, there will be more people who can't afford to live. Then there are more people who have to rent. If there are more people who have to rent and it is built for few dwellings, then the housing prices in the rental market are also rising. If housing prices rise in the rental market, there will be more people who can't afford to pay a rent. No matter how good housing support schemes and how good arrangements we have in different areas, it will be that too few homes create housing shortages. We see this very clearly in the two cities where the Progress Party rules, Oslo and Bergen, which are the most residential areas. There's been an increase in the number of homeless people. I understand that Åge Starheim does not question the numbers of the homeless in such a setting; it is to apologise that they themselves have done one too bad job in the two cities. Michael Tetzschner points out that in Oslo you have done a great job. So, in Oslo, fewer rentals have been given to disadvantaged people over the last 16 years, while the Right has run with the support of the Advance Party, and today there is a dividend charge on the municipal rental homes of 300 million. kr. So the city is enriching itself on behalf of those who can't afford it. That's what I think is immoral, and I've said it in the room before. The proposal that lies here is a good one, because it supports what many of those who hire have as their goal: they want to own their own home. They want to be masters of their own house. It's a goal that I understand, and it's good for society. It's good for society that people either alone or in community own their own homes. So the things you own, you take better care of, and the things you own -- the things in the community like housing, which is what I live in, or in the same way -- are something that makes you set up for each other in a proper way, through hard work, and so on. That is why the proposals of the Christian People's Party are good. The local authorities have just set up such a system, which means that you first go from rent to rent, because you can't afford anything else, and you get into a situation of ownership. However, let me point to one thing, as I think it is important that the housing message is taken up, and I will also give the representative Åge Starheim a point, and that is that while the housing grant for rentals leads to permanent dwellings that are under municipal control and that you have as a municipal tool from here into eternity – eternity is long, but at least in the lifetime of the dwelling – then a transition from rentals to owner-occupied dwellings will be something that will only benefit the individual in question. It's stupid. It's stupid for the municipalities because they lose a dwelling you could assign to others, but it's good for the individual, who gets a place to live. Today, a housing grant has a long horizon when it comes to providing a rental dwelling, while individual grants are depreciated over a period of ten years. One of the things I think it is important that the Housing Committee assesses is whether individual grants that go to equity may be something that goes back to the municipality altogether when he sells the dwelling and goes on in the housing career. At a housing conference earlier this year, I proposed this to the people who worked in the municipal housing departments around. There was a general ‘approach’ to such a proposal because it provides an opportunity to recycle the grant. Then we also got to do something about what the representative Åge Starheim says as a possible injustice, that some people get and others don't get.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e614	The centre party believes that a safe and stable housing situation is an important prerequisite for a good life. We want as much as possible to be able to own their own housing, including those who have low incomes and who cannot obtain regular bank loans, and also those who are in such a situation that the support schemes of the House Bank in some way will not be sufficient. Those with the biggest problems of entering the housing market are dependent on public support schemes to be able to own their own housing. The rent-before-eie scheme has been tested in the Fränna municipality with positive results. The model implies that municipalities buy a new or used dwelling in the market. The dwelling is financed by grants from the Husbanken and the municipalities raise a loan. A five-year rental contract is concluded with the household in question, where the rental is set at a sum that is the maximum that the household can pay during that period. In the sixth year, the household may choose to buy the dwelling if it is then in an economic situation that makes it possible. The aim is to give refugees, drug addicts and other socially or economically disadvantaged persons an opportunity to enter the housing market – an opportunity they would otherwise never have had. The municipalities report good results so far, and want to continue the lease-before-owner scheme. In the light of Fränna’s positive experience, the Centre Party considers that the lease-on-ownership scheme should be made one of the Husbankan’s ordinary instruments. The party underlines that the housing under this scheme should be located primarily in the ordinary mixed housing environment where there are small municipal rental homes today, and that the scheme is not a state instruction, but a tool that the municipality can choose to use in its work to provide housing for disadvantaged people. The scheme is therefore in no way a restriction of local governance, but has its origin in a wish from the French Commune to continue this – a system that has had such positive results that we want to make it an ordinary instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e625	This matter is largely about quality of life. It is about giving some opportunity to get what is perhaps one of the biggest wishes of most people in Norway, namely own-dwelling. In the proposal for a representative, the Christian People's Party proposes a lease-on-ownership arrangement. This scheme is aimed at persons who have too low income to defend a mortgage. In the scheme, municipalities purchase a dwelling that is rented out to the recipient of the scheme. The dwelling is rented for a five-year period. After that period, the lessee is given the opportunity to buy the dwelling. In this way, we can give economically disadvantaged people an opportunity in the housing market they would not otherwise have had. The main idea is that dwellings should be purchased in the ordinary housing market and that dwellings should be part of a normal living environment. This serves several purposes. This will, inter alia, allow for integration where necessary. In addition, there will be significantly better growing conditions for children whose option is regular municipal rental housing. Now we see trends in children growing up in municipal rental homes, even becoming users of municipal housing when they get older. We can counteract this with this proposal, without it being said that there is something negative about living in a municipal dwelling, but this matter is, after all, all about getting the opportunity to own a home. The scheme proposed in the proposal for a representative combines housing aid with support from the Nav Office for professional participation. Thus, the possibility of owning an owner-occupied dwelling becomes a five-year reward with financial discipline, with punctual payments of rent without social assistance. Not only does the scheme provide opportunities to change an undesirable life situation, it also gives the feeling of mastering. The system is responsible for those who today feel put on the outside of society. Being held responsible means taking responsibility for yourself – not only with the authority responsible, in this case with the municipality, but also in other areas. This mechanism could have a positive synergy effect in many people's lives. Many will become more responsible for their own financial situation or work situation. The fact that the tenant himself will take over the dwelling gives an extra incentive to keep the dwelling in order. There is again lower maintenance costs for the municipality. The unique feature of the scheme is that it includes elements of, among others. housing social work, financial advice, follow-up at home, fights and work experience. We see that Fränna Municipality, which has tried the scheme, reports on good results and wants to continue the lease-on arrangement. The municipality can tell that the scheme provides predictability for both the lessee and the lessor, as it has a longer running distance than many other measures. Furthermore, they can tell that the scheme has given the municipality the opportunity to take a group that has not been able to reach with other measures. Of course, the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the government has chosen to support this proposal, and that they will now facilitate rental-before-own projects across the country to help them to own their own homes as much as possible. Yesterday we had a debate here in the hall where a big point was made that the position never listened to the opposition, the opposition consistently voted down. Well, then we're in the hall today and we're feeling that the government has actually listened, even though the representative Håkon Haugli obviously had to add that the government's proposal is, of course, so much better. But the intention of the proposal, to get a lease-on scheme like a national scheme, has at least been listened to. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased with that, not only for ourselves, of course, but most on behalf of those who can benefit from such a system. So we're very satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e644	The government has an overarching goal for everyone to stay safe and sound. By pursuing a social housing policy, we must ensure that everyone is able to have a good housing in a good building environment. Housing policy is an important part of government's welfare policy. A safe and good housing can provide a stable link to work, to take up education and for good health. It is also important to promote integration and to prevent crime. Ensuring a safe and secure environment is, therefore, important in the fight against poverty. The social housing policy of the government must prevent people from coming into social and economic ruin. So a good construction situation is an important prerequisite for a good life. Owning its building provides more stable frames than living in a rented dwelling. A community becomes a part of a community and gets more incentives to take care of their housing. Furthermore, the tax advantage of owning a non-letting asset is the tax advantage. The government wants most of the people who want it to be able to establish themselves in their own housing. The local authorities have implemented a project designed to capture people who have too low income to establish themselves in their own housing without help. The aim is to give refugees, drug addicts and socially or economically disadvantaged a chance in the housing market that they would not otherwise have had. The uncle can show good results so far. The municipality is working very well to establish people with difficulty in their own housing. The financing model used by the Municipality of Fränna in its project led to the conversion of grants to rental properties into a personal property premium when the tenant is to purchase the dwelling. This practice is likely to be contrary to current legislation. The municipalities are responsible for helping people with difficulties in the housing market. In this work, the municipalities are free to choose the tools that they think are best to solve this problem. The question is therefore whether municipalities that want to use the lease-before-ownership scheme as a strategy to help disadvantaged people enter their own own housing can get state support to finance this. As responsible for the government's housing policy, I am busy that municipalities should have a wide range of tools at their disposal to help people with difficulties in the housing market. The government will therefore support Fräna and other municipalities, so that lease-before-owner projects can be realised throughout the country. It is a good initiative that the Christian People's Party has taken, and I want to listen to both the Christian People's Party and other opposition parties when they present proposals that are good, that have been tried out, as is this, and that we also see have an effect on those groups that need it. The government has listened to the Christian People's Party's proposal. Even with a slightly modified model, it's right that the intention is exactly the same. We therefore propose a new model to finance the lease-before-owner project, so that municipalities can offer such solutions if they so wish. The model is a combination of today's loan and surcharge schemes and means that the municipality buys the dwelling this year by means of a mortgage and housing allowance for rental properties. When tenants buy the dwelling after a few years, the household will receive start-up loans and housing supplements for establishment. After this model, loans and housing supplements will be measured out in relation to the household's economic situation, while the supplement according to the Fräna model would normally be 20 pst, regardless of the economic situation of the individual household. As the government sees it, so our model will be even more targeted than the Franconian model, but the intention is exactly the same. I believe that this model as an instrument can help change people's lives for the better. As you know, the government has reduced a public selection to discuss and advise on how to meet the key tasks of social housing policy over the years to come. The selection shall be submitted at the date of 11 August of this year. The government intends to follow up the setting with a big message, which I will submit in 2012. Then it may also be appropriate to look at and propose simplifications or other changes to facilitate even better for such lease-before-owner projects, which I have great faith in. So it's a good initiative, to which the government has listened. We're making a proposal, as I said, with some modifications that we think make the scheme even more targeted, and are very happy that there's such a wide majority in the hall that supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e672	It's going to be access to keep listening to each other through a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e675	The representative Holmås pointed out that there were too few dwellings built here in the country. As far as I know the municipalities, they work actively to outsource and regulate more residential areas. However, private landowners produce private control plans to benefit from land that is currently in decline because they have closed down the gardening business, because it is not possible to survive on the current agricultural regimes. That is probably the main reason why few dwellings are built. Will the Council of State see that it can be easier to do this, by informing its members that there must be a greater will to make the land laid out?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e683	In Norway we have had a smooth and good construction of dwellings. I had a meeting with my Swedish colleague a short time ago. He asked how it could be that Norway, in relation to the population, is building twice as many dwellings as one does in Sweden per year. I didn't have a good answer to that, but I think part of the answer is that in Norway we have more like owning their own dwelling, and that one thus has less ‘turnover’ when it comes to housing. But we have twice as high expansion in Norway as in Sweden. It's come back after a fall in the financial crisis, so that we now have a lot of housing under planning. I am busy with land planning and that municipalities should have freedom of action to make good municipal plans. Where one takes the level work seriously and does it properly, one also gets a good area for housing. But the municipalities have a job to do in making good plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e690	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for her contributions and support for the proposals of the Christian People's Party. I think it's very nice that you can look at a lot of different measures to help people get into the housing market that would otherwise have problems financing it their own way. But in this picture – we are a little bit involved in our comments – we see that there are quite a number of homeless people in Norway. Not all of these may fit into a rental-before-owning scheme, but it is equally full that they must also receive a housing offer. There are challenges today. The representative Heikki Holmås said that everyone has to stay, that's just the way it is. What will the Council of State do to ensure that everyone, including those who are homeless today, gets a place to live — a safe place to live?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e697	Ensuring all a place to bow requires a wide range of tools. Some of the tools are within housing policy. Some are also within other social measures to train some of those who are homeless, simply to be trained to live. There are a lot of cause hangers that make people homeless, that you don't have a fixed address – you don't live in the street, but you don't have a fixed address. Norwegian municipalities around the country are responsible for ensuring that this does not happen. We have created a new bus pay scheme. We've increased the bus fee. We have arranged for local authorities to be given the means to do this job, and we will continue to do so, in a continuous work, to ensure that all Norwegian citizens have a safe building situation as a basis for living a valuable life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e706	The red-green government has soon completed its sixth year. There have not been so many initiatives to discuss housing policy in its full scope. On the other hand, many issues have been raised that have helped to abdicate housing for those who need it — plan bureaucracy, standard requirements, other aspects of working life that help to appease the products of those who demand housing. My question is very simple. It's, "When's the house call coming?"
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e713	As I said in my article, we get the setting from the housing selection on August 11. We're going to follow her up with a big message. It shall be submitted in 2012, if all plans and schedules are successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e718	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e723	I'm so lucky I own my own house. I'm born in that house, so to the extent that a house is part of a human being's security, I'm good at that. Others are not as lucky. We have approx. 6 000 non-residents in Norway. All of these have an individual history, which varies, and all are not as stigmatized as homeless, even though they lack housing at the moment. But some are definitely deeper down in the trailer than others and need other offers than those that manage themselves. For the Workers' Party, housing policy is important. We want to use the housing policy instruments to a greater extent than they have been used up to now. We want housing policy to be more wide-ranging and broader. Here, municipalities have an important role and an opportunity for their citizens. We have different sets of instruments, such as start-up loans, but municipalities can also choose to take a more active role by using more of the possibilities of the House Bank and building rental homes. Renting a dwelling can be the entrance to the housing market for those excluded from the same market for various reasons. This instrument is also a unique option for district municipalities which do not have private housing and which also do not have vacant dwellings available. It's actually like this in many district municipalities, even if you wouldn't believe it. When people move, they keep their childhood home, like a leisure home. It is part of the welfare development in Norway that we have the opportunity to have a dwelling no. 2nd@item: inlistbox If the municipalities build rental homes, they can also offer it to young people. Maybe the municipalities can recruit some new residents or keep some of them that would have gone. We know that many places in the districts are selling prices on houses lower than the cost of building a new house. Of course, many people are afraid to build themselves. Here, the municipality can play an active role and thus contribute to attractive housing conditions, both for those who do not take the opportunity to go into debt and for those who are unable to obtain their own housing. Maybe just renting can be the entrance to wanting to own their own dwelling in a slightly longer time perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e746	The representative Holmås had a visit to what I understand was the city council in Oslo, more specifically at the Progress Party, when it pertained to Oslo's housing policy. There I can say that there is a great deal of consensus, which also includes red-green parties, about housing policy. When the representative Holmås says that you have fewer dwellings for disadvantaged groups, it is precisely because you wanted to convert from a distribution of dwellings considered as a good in kind, so you can avoid getting what you call a category building. It's a very important strategy, so we don't maintain a geographical dimension of inequality, as the red-green parties often say they're opposed. The option is to build up the ability to pay for persons who do not have a secure income or who have low income. That's the point. The House Bank's arrangements have also been modified, from subsidising special forms of housing, special sizes of buildings and housing, and thus also a geographical distribution of disparities to enable people to demand a reasonable and reasonable housing. I am a little surprised that the representative is calling for yesterday's housing policy. But I keep noticing that the representative Holmås pronounces on Oslo, as he represents on paper here in the hall, with little knowledge of the social housing policy line that has been a cross-political joint ownership in Oslo City Council. In this context, I must also say that the housing co-operation is important for those who are trying to establish themselves in the market. The residential co-operation also represents an intermediate form, between owning and renting. Then I would also point out that in this room in this period we discussed the ban on low-income dwellings in housing camps, where the red-green parties demanded that it be 30 pst. self-financing. If you do not have orderly banking connections, it means that you set a claim of NOK 750 000 in equity if you want to establish yourself in a house of 2.5 million. kr. So these are the concrete contributions of the red-greens in this context, where the right sees the possibility that serious housing laws can also be accepted that have lower equity requirements. Very much of the policy is to promote new proposals to compensate for the unintended nature of old policies. It may be necessary to consider whether to change the old policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e757	I am very pleased with the reception the proposal from the Christian People's Party has received in this Chamber. The lease-before-ownership arrangement is a good arrangement. I would also say that the government has not shown a very great ability traditionally to listen to good suggestions from the opposition – I don't want to use the word hard-heard – and therefore I think it is very happy that the Council of State has seen this matter that way. I also thought the press release that came in April was very good and is a continuation of the intention in this proposal. So I would also say that this system seems to me to be in a completely different way in contrast to some of the housing policies we see in Oslo. When we look at some of the social housing policies in Oslo, linked to the Sinsen area in Oslo, we see that there are the hard-working groups that get settled by the municipality that have a very poor standard. The municipality pays high rents to private operators, whom I want to say exploits the situation in which this group is. That's why this system, the thinking that the Council of State puts up, is in a positive contrast to the policy we see in Oslo. The success formula behind this is a liability. What we see is that when a person is allowed to live in a dwelling that has the ability to own itself after a certain period of time, he gets a liability; he takes care of the dwelling in another way. I think that's the good idea behind the proposal and what's going on from the government. I'm very pleased with the signals coming from the Council of State, and I'm glad that the government shows the ability to listen, in an area where the Christian People's Party and the government party are close together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e766	I drew myself to solve a couple of misunderstandings. The representative Tetzschner had some thoughts about the interaction between the opposition and the government parties that I fully agree with. No one has a monopoly on good ideas. At the same time, he argued that it is automatic that the government parties vote against all opposition proposals and do not listen. That's not right. This case is just an example of that. Here the Christian People's Party has come through and is helping us to get a good solution in place. The representative Becquerad suggested that the government's proposal was not different from the original proposal of the Christian People's Party, and claimed that I had said it was so much, much better. No, such an exaggeration is not covered for. But what the government is proposing is a better solution than the Christian People's Party proposed, and as the Fränna Municipality has practiced. The government model is more focused. The starting point is the economic situation of the individual household, not a fixed 20 pst. limit. In many cases, and especially in areas with high housing prices, a grant measure of more than 20 pst. the purchase price is necessary to establish economically disadvantaged persons in a owner-occupied dwelling. The government's model will allow as much grants as necessary to establish a sustainable economy with the buyer. Much can be said about the representative Tetzschner said about the housing policy of the Municipality of Oslo. The right-wing/Fremskritsparte council has reinforced the concentration of disadvantaged people in its own residential areas, as Tetzschner claimed. Despite growing needs, Oslo Municipality sells municipal housing on a large scale and hires them back from private homes in areas with an excess of problems, as the representative Hareide also mentioned. In the Workers' Party we are pleased that the Christian People's Party is pleased to be heard. Not least, we're glad that we're now getting a good rental-before-own solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e779	I hear that the immigrant from Denmark, Michael von Tetzschner, has a slightly demeaning attitude towards us who have immigrated to this beautiful big city, Oslo, from Bergen – but it now has to be his attitude. I thought I would go straight with a few of the claims made during that post. One is that there has been a clear consensus on the policy between the right and the left in Oslo. That's not right. The last time in the discussion of the communication on housing social policy in Oslo, the left side agreed that there should be ambitions to build 500 new rental homes this year in Oslo – a proposal that was voted down by the urban council parties. That was one of the examples. The second is the policy of increasing the level of municipal rental housing across the city. It's a policy that we've been through from the left in Oslo City Council. I don't know how far away municipal rental homes Michael Tetzschner lives. I'm sure he can explain that for himself. We even have municipal rental properties in our own housing estate – and in the same backyard an entire farm. It's vital to get good living environments that we build more municipal rental homes on the west side. There are probably the last dwellings that were built, the dwellings that were purchased by Stortinget, namely in Sigurd Syr's Gate. It was the last 18 homes that were built, and I guess that's what we've seen from the right-hand side of the city council in the last few years. It's vital to get it done. But we see that the City Council has a dividend of 300 million. kr per year for municipal housing. A statement made by the investigation department at Stortinget shows how, through the sale of municipal housing, Oslo municipality has been drained for over 700 million. kr in recent years and not reinvested in new dwellings. So the representative from Right and Oslo would like to claim something different, but the difference between the left and the right of the housing policy in Oslo is striking, and therefore it is necessary to be able to replace the City Council in Oslo, and that the left-hand side wins the elections in Oslo for the autumn. I fully agree with the representative of the Christian People's Party, Knut Arild Hareide, who was up here in the city, but also with Geir Jørgen Bekkevold. It is very clear that the housing policy that has been pursued in Oslo has created more homeless people, not fewer, and I hope that after the elections in Oslo we can agree on a different course.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e793	The representative, Michael Tetzschner, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e796	That's also going to be a short comment. I just want, after listening to the representative Holmås, to clear up the misunderstanding that might have crept in. It wasn't his origin I had anything to say about, it was his knowledge of the city he says to represent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e803	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4537]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e819	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e828	In this case, the Grand Duchy shall examine six proposals from the Government concerning amendments to two laws, the Introduction Act and the Civil Code. The Introduction Act, which entered into force on 1 September 2003, was designated by the former Minister of State Erna Solberg as a milestone in the integration policy for immigrants in Norway. It was a term that had broad political support. The main target group were newly arrived refugees and persons with a humanitarian residence and their family members. Before the introduction law came, these people's first meeting with Norwegian society was usually a meeting with the social auxiliaries. Social assistance was in practice the only source of income. There were many who remained — a hopeless situation for the individual, stigmatizing for the group as a whole, and not for society as a whole. With the new Introduction Act, municipalities were required to organise an introduction programme with training in Norwegian and social knowledge and preparation for a professional life in Norway. Introductory support related to participation in the programme replaced the more passive payment of social assistance. However, some of those not entitled to the introduction programme were entitled to training in Norwegian and community knowledge. In most cases, the rights under the law were subsequently linked to a similar obligation to participate in training and qualification. I hope that in connection with this little reflection I get forgiveness because I use the opportunity to decorate a bit of my own municipality of origin, Drammen, which was early outside. Already in the 1990s, we shifted responsibility for receiving refugees from the social sector to the cultural sector. It was an important signal. In May 2000, we discussed a new action plan for refugee work in the municipality, entitled ‘Art of Being a Drammenser’, where qualification for participation was an important keyword. Refugees who came to the Drammen had to go through Norwegian education, work-related courses, language practices and homework. This was considered work, and the participants were paid to participate. The course was compulsory and invalid absences resulted in salary cuts. We were proud of the host when the then municipal minister Erna Solberg visited our new introductory centre, and even more proudly when many of our ideas came to the fore in the design of new national policies. The introduction system and training in Norwegian and social knowledge have been subject to several evaluations since its introduction in 2003, not later than 2007, as referred to in the case under consideration. The proposals for the introduction of mandatory final tests in Norwegian and social knowledge, the extension of the number of hours from 300 to 600 hours, the extension of the circle of persons with the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme, the introduction of state supervision and local internal control, the extension of the condition of permanent residence and the granting of citizenship from 300 to 600 hours of training are all stages of ongoing work on a better integration policy. The setting is almost unanimous. A Joint Committee supports all of the Government's proposals with a common cross-political justification, where Norwegian as the main entry ticket for participation in society, and the very basis for social mobility, are underlined by all parties. The only aberrant proposal is the proposal of the Progress Party to go one step further and to require not only completed training but also passed examination, as a condition for the granting of citizenship. The Committee invited it to be consulted in the course of its examination of the matter. Local government interest and employer organisation – KS – meeting. They agreed to the proposals, but expressed some concern about increased costs in some municipalities, especially in larger municipalities with no available training capacity. An overall committee asks the government to follow this closely and has noted that contacts have already been established between the KS and the government to ensure this. The minority has chosen to drop this in the form of proposals. The majority trust that the government will follow this up in a good way. Finally, as the rapporteur-general, I would like to stress once again what is most important in this matter. A total increase supports the government's proposal to further strengthen integration work. We succeed better than many other countries, but there is still room for improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e852	As the rapporteur referred to in his statement, there is an overall committee which supports the government's proposal. I also noticed that the representative Lise Christoffersen made some historical references from his home municipality, Drammen. It may be appropriate to further reinforce the historical references. If we look back a little bit in time, a few decades back, the world was quite different, and Norway was quite different, in terms of the theme and the field we are discussing today. Today, it is obvious that immigrants coming to Norway will learn Norwegian. It's job number one when you arrive at the Kingdom, but it hasn't always been like this. Going back to the 1980s and 1990s, the Progress Party actually waged a lonely struggle for the importance of learning Norwegian language. Many of us remember when Carl I. Hagen, as Chairman of the Advancement Party at that time, was almost thrown eggs and tomatoes on, because he demanded that immigrants adapt to Norwegian society and learn Norwegian. Today it's a matter of course, but it's been a long fight. So that fight went on for almost 20 years. But there are constantly new struggles and new principles to be established, and policies need to be developed further. The Advance Party fully agrees with the 300-600-hour extension. We think it is good – and there we should brag by the government – to realize that it is necessary to have final tests. The problem is that you don't take the logic, the consequence, completely out. The Progress Party believes that it should be a matter of course that in Norway, as in many other Western countries, we are demanding the very outcome of Norwegian training and the social training that you receive, and that there should be a condition for citizenship. The Progress Party believes that citizenship is the ultimate goal of being fully integrated into Norwegian society. You're just like the rest of the population when you get full citizenship. Then it is also natural that you attach some requirements to this. There are many requirements that can be linked to citizenship, but two natural requirements are language skills, and knowledge of the society in which you actually live and work. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that, at the same time as dealing with this proposition, we should make such a claim. The Progress Party also agrees with the other opposition parties in particular that we need to look at the costs for the municipalities. I find it very difficult to believe that this expansion does not lead to cost increases for the municipalities that are going to affect municipal budgets in the time to come. It is good that the government parties in the committee signal that you should follow this up, but I also believe that there must be money on the table. Then there's also one thing where the Progress Party disagrees a little bit with the Committee's assessment of the position and what is in the proposition. It is in the language in which social knowledge is to be disseminated in training. It is difficult for the Progress Party to understand why it should not be allowed to integrate social training into ordinary Norwegian education, i.e. training in Norwegian. It could be fully integrated, and it would not have been necessary to provide training in a language other than Norwegian. It would only have strengthened the Norwegian language. We also show that other countries have chosen to do just that, i.e. that social education takes place in the language that is commonly used in the country. Among other things, Finland practises such a scheme. I think we should be able to do that too. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e873	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e876	The representative of Christoffersen asked for forgiveness for her to boast of my home municipality of Drammen, and she will. That's very good. There's a lot of positive happening there, and it's done for a long time. What is very exciting today, I think, is that the Storting unanimously adopts this expansion of Norwegian training, and that there is such a broad consensus on the most central instrument of our integration policy. There is not always a glimpse of it when you hear debates in this Chamber on asylum, immigration and integration, but in this case, which is the foundation of the further integration policy in Norway, there is broad consensus. It might be interesting to write the story about who was first out with demands and who did what. At any rate, I would like to stress that the Bondevik II Government and Erna Solberg were the ones who introduced this legislation that put integration policy properly on the map and that are now being endorsed by a unanimous decision in the Stortinget. Today's government, too, I want to pay tribute to follow up on this policy. Extending Norwegian training may seem unnecessary, all the time it says today that one should have the opportunity to get up to 2700 or 3000 hours of Norwegian training. However, it is important that one emphasises that this is also an obligation, that one should have written tests that acknowledge that one has actually gained a real level of knowledge. It's also important. There was no obvious thing when this matter first came up for debate seven to eight years ago. What is a little alarming here is that the municipalities and KS feel that they have not received the necessary feedback regarding the economic and administrative consequences of this scheme. It is true that the municipalities have provided quite a large amount of funding to carry out Norwegian training, that it should be possible to do so within the framework of the legislation and framework that is in place today, but I think it is important that the Council of State and the Government take seriously the signals that came from the KS that, in particular, slightly larger municipalities, medium-sized and large municipalities could have some challenges with the financial system. What we least need is for municipalities to start questioning whether to provide a good Norwegian training offer for economic reasons. Norway will do well to ensure that this offer is good, that it is followed and that it is followed up. Therefore, it is important that there is an agreement on the financial arrangements associated with it. Norwegian and Norwegian knowledge is unusually important. It is essential for participation in the labour market. At least one of the main objectives of this law must be to increase the participation of those who have come to Norway, who have acquired Norwegian citizenship or are on their way to it. Therefore, it is incredibly important that one also follow this up through teaching, by providing adapted education that qualifies people for participation in the world of work. That is why I cannot agree with the comments from the Progress Party on forcing everyone to learn social sciences in Norwegian. I think it's important that they learn Norwegian and social science at the same time, because it's important from the start to bring along the ballast of what values the Norwegian society is built on, what assumptions you have, what rights you have and what duties you have. On the day they master Norwegian well, this social education will be offered in Norwegian. It says in the proposition that it should be offered in a language that people understand. But that's not a big point. The important thing here is that today we are gathering about an extension of language training, that we agree on the changes that are being made to also make demands on immigrants to participate in the Norwegian community, where the requirements imply that everyone has an obligation to learn Norwegian, and that everyone will thus make a stronger contribution to entering the labour market – so that one avoids the debate that says that immigrants are a cost. All of this should be that immigrants in Norway are a positive benefit to Norwegian society, which contributes to a better social economy. We'll be able to do that by expanding Norwegian training.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e895	I would like to thank the government for presenting this proposal as a follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration. It is a proposal that is good and that is about something that we all agree on – strengthening Norwegian education for people who come to Norway. I get a little tired of any debate about integration starting with the Progress Party saying that they were the first to make demands on Norwegian training. Yes, it is possible that a debate can be held between parties about who was first outside. But that's how the last few 20 years have been a broad consensus that language is crucial, and that you have to make demands to learn Norwegian. It was a unanimous outburst, in which I myself was involved, when we introduced this law, which demands both the right and the duty to participate in Norwegian training, under municipal minister Erna Solberg. Then, of course, I realize that Per-Willy Amundsen and the Progress Party on descending polls want to return to a time when Carl I. Hagen was the leader of the party, and the Progress Party received election support from South Africa and the apartheid regime there. But the rest of us are moving on, and I also think that the Progress Party should do so. To what Trond Helleland raised regarding Norwegian education and social education: I also think it is a more important point that people get to know what to learn about the Norwegian society they come to, than that in Norwegian. I think that if the Progress Party thinks about it, they also agree. Then it's a goal that everyone should understand this in Norwegian gradually. But there's no doubt that one of the things we see with people who have a limited vocabulary in Norwegian is that the depth understanding of words disappears, and you don't get them. That's why training in society, and how things work, in a language you understand in depth, is crucial for this to be real training in society. We have said very clearly from the committee that our starting point, which is the starting point of the government, also in the Soria Moria declaration, is that all reforms should be fully funded. We have said from the committee that we want to keep up with developments in this area. We of course base the government's reference to the fact that the total transfers to the municipalities should be sufficient to provide the offer we are now making, in Norwegian training and in the transfers to Norwegian training. We're just going to have a dialogue with KS in the time that's coming, to see that it's actually being followed up from the municipalities as well. I want to use the opportunity, when we now introduce this scheme and this strengthening of Norwegian training, to point out a few things that I think there is reason for the government to take them along and assess further. There's been a lot of talk about the drama here today. Now it's like the new councillor in Drammen has also been in charge of the integration committee. So I'm assuming that here there'll be out of gas in the drama of this field even in the time that comes. But I'm assuming that they're also going to take up some of that discussion and the things that I'm now raising. It turns out that there is a big difference between the number of Norwegian municipalities providing people who come to Norway and receive training. And there is no doubt that the municipalities that offer the most Norwegian training during the week, and have a full and complete introduction programme that provides a lot of Norwegian training, are also the municipalities where the students or students or participants in the programme learn Norwegian best. It is important to follow up with those municipalities that provide less Norwegian training. It is also the case that there is a significant difference between some of the refugees arriving in Norway now and in the past. It is reported that people with high levels of education from Chechnya or Bosnia or Kosovo, who came earlier, have a completely different understanding and language competence at the bottom of some of those who come and are illiterate, from countries where there has been war, and education systems have been destroyed. This presents some challenges regarding the duration of participation in Norwegian training. Two years will probably be too short for part of them, and this should probably consider extending the introduction programme for these refugees. But it also presents a challenge in one more area, which we may have had less in the past, and which has become more important now, namely that people must receive primary education as part of their education — primary and secondary. Because without those things, there's no way into work and education later, and we also see that from the statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e910	The central party believes that being able to master the Norwegian language, both in writing and orally, is the key prerequisite for being able to take an active part in the professional and social life. Today, all immigrants between 16 and 55 years of age with a residence permit that provides the basis for permanent residence permits, rights and obligations to 300 hours of training in Norwegian and social subjects, which has proved to be scarce for most. An extension to 600 hours, 550 hours in Norwegian and 50 hours in social literacy, will give immigrants much better conditions for obtaining information, engaging in community life and for competing for work or taking up further education. A natural consequence of extended hours is that the requirement for hours of Norwegian training in the application for citizenship is increased accordingly. Social education in a language that is mastered by the person concerned will be able to take place in parallel with Norwegian training. In my opinion, it will be too late to start the training when necessary Norwegian skills are in place. For illiterates, it might be years before they will get this knowledge. Here, as in all other forms of teaching, individual organisation is important. A practical approach to language will be important, not least for those with a low level of education. The centre party believes that practical training, e.g.: language practice in the enterprise or in a voluntary organisation, too many can be as good an alternative as traditional class instruction. The government estimates that the hourly extension will not lead to increased costs for municipalities, as many today offer 600 hours or more, and many municipalities have unfilled classes. This means that increasing student numbers will not require increased teacher resources. However, KS claimed in the hearing that this would only entail additional costs for individual municipalities. There has been a meeting between the KS and the Ministry on the theme on 23 May, and there will be a new meeting when the 2010 Report of the Committee on Calculation on Costs is available. The centre party refers to the contact established here between the KS and the government and requests that any budgetary consequences be closely followed up. The legislative changes also extend the scope of the introduction programme. This applies to persons who have been granted residence on an independent basis after the expiry of the family immigration permit, either because there is reason to believe that they have been abused in marriage or because the divorce will cause unreasonable difficulties with return to their home country, for example. by the dissolution of coercion. These are people who are in a particularly vulnerable situation and who were not included in the introduction programme when they arrived in Norway because they were then married to a Norwegian citizen and had access to private care. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is an improvement of existing legislation which we welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e925	The introduction programme is one of the most important integration measures we have in Norway. This is the first meeting of many people with Norwegian culture, society and language — and the language is probably the main barrier to integration in Norway. Therefore, an introduction in Norwegian to our new citizens will provide opportunities for faster integration and participation in the wider community. The changes in the introduction programme we are dealing with today are important and positive. The changes provide both the right and the duty of several hours of teaching in both Norwegian and social subjects. In addition, these changes allow more people to receive this training. It is very useful that our new citizens in Norway get an introduction to the language and the main pillars on which we build our society. Therefore, it is gratifying that, among other things, it is proposed to increase the number of hours from 300 to 600 hours, as it turned out that a system of 300 hours of instruction was not enough to teach Norwegian at a good enough level. However, it is important to clarify that an increase in the number of hours is likely to result in an increase in financial liabilities for municipalities. This, I believe, has not been taken well enough into account in this matter, and I would therefore like to refer to the proposal that the Christian People's Party is promoting together with the Right and the Advance Party, which states that the government, in cooperation with the KS, must: «create concrete cost estimates for the extension of the hour from 300 to 600 hours». The Christian People's Party also welcomes the expansion of the personality of the introduction program. It is positive that this right is granted to more people and that persons in a vulnerable situation, as set out in this proposal, are now entitled to participate in the introduction programme. I have to say that I am both astonished at and strongly disagreed with some of the comments of the Progress Party on this matter. So, as we see in the position and also in the debate that we have witnessed today, the Progress Party will set a course in the introduction system more closely against the acquisition of citizenship. They therefore believe that there is no need to keep knowledge of Norwegian and social skills, nor should there be requirements for competence in both areas. You could do anything about Norwegian culture, politics and national values and have a strong desire to become Norwegian, but if you don't know when to use ‘and’ or ‘yes’, you can't become a Norwegian citizen. In my view, it is fundamentally wrong that the presentations on a test, a test, should determine whether or not you can become a citizen of Norway. Knowledge of Nansen and the ability to bend verbs must not be essential to becoming a Norwegian national. Finally, I would like to say that skills in Norwegian and social literacy are important. But integration is of little help if those who complete these courses, in any case, don't get a job. Clearly, skills in Norwegian and social skills will make it easier for immigrants on the labour market, but this does not change the fact that many immigrants do not get jobs alone because they are immigrants. Having a migrant background reduces the likelihood of having an interview in both the private and public sectors. Studies in some OECD countries have shown that on average one in three job applications from immigrants are rejected because the person has a migrant background. The term ‘do your duty, demand your right’ is agreed by all of us. That's how it should be. But what about all those who never get the opportunity to do their duty? We need to focus on them. To change the attitudes behind this discrimination, long-term work is required, and the changes we are making today are probably a small step in the right direction, as I judge it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e949	The aim of the Introduction Act is to strengthen opportunities for newcomers to participate in working and social life, and subsequently to strengthen their capacity for economic autonomy. The Introduction Act contains two schemes: the introduction system, which is full-time qualification, and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. The government is now promoting several proposals to improve the achievement of its objectives, we propose: a minor extension of the target audience for the introduction programme to extend the right and obligation of training in Norwegian and social knowledge from 300 to 600 hours to introduce mandatory, final tests in Norwegian and social knowledge, and to introduce municipal internal control and county supervision of the systems of the introduction law; Mandatory tests underline society’s expectation that immigrants will learn Norwegian and that Norwegian knowledge is an important prerequisite for participation. In addition, the introduction of compulsory tests in Norwegian and community knowledge will clarify the responsibility of municipalities to provide high-quality training. The new final social knowledge test will contribute to the prioritisation of social knowledge training by both the individual and the municipality. Mandatory tests in Norwegian and community knowledge will meet the needs of individuals and society to document the results after completion of training. Mandatory tests will only apply to those covered by both the right and the obligation to receive training under the Introduction Act. Failure to pass a test or failure to pass a test could have an impact on labour market opportunities, since the individual will then not be able to prove what he or she has learned or whether he/she has poor results. The aim is that the tests and test certificates should become so well known and so high in society that it becomes important for individuals to both go up to and pass the tests. Several evaluations have noted that today’s minimum ten metals of 300 hours are too low and that the few have acquired basic skills in Norwegian in so few hours. The level of training must allow individuals to acquire basic skills in both Norwegian and Norwegian languages. The Government therefore proposes that this minimum number of hours should be increased to 600 hours for those covered by Norwegian and social education rights and obligations. In other words, the right and duty of training should include 550 hours of Norwegian training and 50 hours of community education in a language understood by the immigrant. Still those who need it will be able to get another 2,400 hours of training, so it's still going to be an upper ceiling of 3,000 hours. I am very concerned that the introduction law is being implemented as well as possible in the municipalities. The aim of the amendments proposed today is to promote the build-up of competences for newly arrived immigrants. This will help more people get into work and become financially independent. Better quality of training is also the reason why I propose municipal internal control and county supervision. We see that, in some cases, there is too much variation between the offers offered in different parts of the country, and precisely because this is a factor of such importance to the development of our society, we also need a greater degree of supervision and control over how the introduction laws are implemented and followed up around the country. Good results are not just in the interests of the individual. Good results will also result in increased participation of municipalities, increased tax receipts and reduced municipal benefits. It has been said very nicely about the introduction law until now in the debate, and I think that is good reason for that. Then there are always discussions about historical ownership. I believe that everyone who has contributed to us getting this law in place deserves honor. It was a unanimous growth that was behind the introduction of the law in 2003. There will also be a unanimous increase behind these important extensions to the rights and obligations of newcomers today. I'm very happy about that. It also means that there is support for a crucial part of the government’s integration strategy with a focus on work, language and gender equality. Good Norwegian training and good social training are essential to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e984	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e987	The Council of State says that society has clear expectations that immigrants will learn Norwegian, and stresses the importance of this being a right and a duty to training. But you don't take the logical consequences of it. Right and duty to training is good, but there is no requirement for results. That's where I feel that the proposition and the majority of the committee don't follow the logic completely. If you were concerned that you actually also learned something, so this not only becomes an SV school where you count absences without demand for results, you should also put some demands on results at the bottom, especially in relation to citizenship, as the Progress Party suggests in this case. Why do the government parties reject the proposal to make demands on results in order to acquire Norwegian citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e992	Experience with the first six years of the representative Amundsen calls SV School suggests that Norwegian students are learning more and more – at least if we are to believe these measurements that are being made. I believe that the effect of this type of SV-school will also be that those taking the courses learn more and more. We're putting in the new and, in my opinion, the right and important thing that taking these tests becomes mandatory, that completing the increased number of hours becomes part of the basis for permanent residence and citizenship in Norway. I have great faith that people won't sit for 600 hours or more not to learn, but will get significant out of it. It is also what the results of the introduction scheme refer to now. We have good results. These are integration policies that work, and what we do today will make it work better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e999	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1004	At the end of the debate, I would like to make a few comments on the contribution of the representative Amundsen, who is trying to draw a picture of the lonely struggle of the Progress Party for the importance of learning Norwegian – and note that emphasis, because that detail is a little important. He refers to Carl I. Hagen, eggs and tomatoes. I remember a part of it. Expressions such as ‘slippers’ and ‘unsleeps’ were used. Or was it perhaps a characteristic of social welfare recipients more generally? It was at least the concept that Carl I. Hagen used quite often at that time. But the difference between the Progress Party and the others lies in the small detail that I said. We're doing things in a slightly opposite order. What we did in the Drama, for example, was first to settle, so quiet demands. But also the Progress Party is able to change, and I think that is pleasing. I just want to point out that on page 2 of the Committee's position, in the middle of the first column, it says: ‘The right and obligation to qualify for participation are closely related. When society makes arrangements, demands can also be made. Similarly, it becomes more difficult to impose requirements if the training offer is inadequate.’ This is an overall committee behind it, and I'm glad. Then I could also imagine a little comment on the proposal of the Progress Party to pass the test. The national assembly of the Labour Party has also adopted such a proposal – but once again this small difference is so important: what is in the national decision of the Labour Party is that we must first ensure that we have funding to extend the right to Norwegian training. Because if you delete, you have to get the right to further training and the right to go up to a new test. We also need to find a reasonable level of requirement for the sample. I don't think it's a goal that everyone who comes to Norway should learn and/or the rule, where I think there are many of us who have problems, both bigots representatives and journalists, to mention someone, and maybe even priests do it sometimes, so it'll be enough to list a little too high. At the same time, I think this is an area that we're not going to finish at once for everyone. I just want to show that the national meeting in the Workers' Party also signalled a target that all foreigners who settle in Norway, regardless of their background, will be offered language training. It is a proposal that will require funding, and it is a proposal that will require a plan for implementation. There are things we're definitely coming back to, there's not part of it here today, but it shows that here we have to work all the time to improve and improve, to get a better result for the individual immigrants, refugees, asylum seekers and for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1023	In today's debate, several have referred to the old Workers' Party slogan: Do your duty, demand your right. It also agrees with the Progress Party – do your duty, demand your right. When you apply such a principle, you can actually cancel something out. You can demand results. It is not enough to provide an offer of instruction; it may also require results from that teaching. That is what the Progress Party does when we propose to link this to citizenship, that is, to have a certain level of Norwegian knowledge and knowledge of Norwegian society before granting Norwegian citizenship. It's a system that very many countries practice. I think it's strange that you don't follow that logic completely. The Labour Party has adopted something about this at the national meeting, and is trying to apologize for not proposing what you really think on behalf of the government by referring to economic conditions. I think it'll be a little special, all the time we spend 13.7 billion. kr directly in the field of immigration and integration. That's a lot of money. If you really believe and believe that you can make more demands, you are also willing to finance it. So blaming on economic conditions becomes too easy. I have absolutely no faith in that. This is more about internal struggle between the government parties, especially the Workers' Party and SV. That's what we see today's result. So there's every reason to warn you a little bit. Although we are all very much in agreement here – mainly – with what is stated in this proposition, although it does not go far enough in demanding any results in order to get citizenship, I would warn you that this room believes that integration is something we decide in the Storting. So, just spending enough money in the field, just adopting good enough arrangements, only we have enough Norwegian lessons and enough social knowledge teaching and putting together one and the other integration program, you think you'll succeed. But all experience suggests the opposite. Yes, integration is to be facilitated, but at the end of the day it is the individual immigrant himself who has to do the job of being integrated into the Norwegian community. If you don't want to, don't want to, and maybe it's more comfortable to be a passive recipient of benefits, you don't succeed in any way. That's why making demands is so obviously important. I record that even after 30 years of debate, this reality has not been fully taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1032	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4537]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1050	The background to this interpellation is a strong concern that children are still not being heard, and that what they say is not being interpreted correctly. Lack of pediatric competence, ignorance and strong taboos mean that many children are not believed, sail when they are clear about what has happened. It is unfortunately my clear impression that there has been a notion in the legal system that children are generally unreliable, and that mothers who promote accusations of violence or abuse are at least not to be trusted. This is particularly true in child distribution cases. Some people think it's common for children to lie about violence and incest. But children lie rather out of difficult situations than into them, especially if they are also afraid of the consequences of telling. The research also shows that mothers who report their concerns have largely gone rounds before they can admit that their child has probably been exposed. The Incest Center in Oslo believes that it has never been so challenging to ensure the legal certainty of these children in the course of its 25-year-old history as it is today. Perhaps the Bjugn thing is still haunting us, combined with the fact that the biological principle is so strong. The Raundalen Selection, which will focus on the biological principle, will hopefully make recommendations concerning the theme of this interpellation. I believe, however, that it is necessary that the government quickly grasp some essential issues and underline them. Firstly, children must be guaranteed a real right to be heard. Competence must be improved at all stages and training needs to be required, in particular for the protection of children and legal devices. Secondly, it shall not be possible for a parent who suspects violence or abuse by another parent to cooperate in association. Any parent, including myself and the state council, would do the same. Thirdly, the doubt must benefit the child in civil matters where there is suspicion of violence or abuse. Criminal law is not required to provide evidence in these cases. Fourthly, the obligation to withdraw is the subject of the obligation of professional secrecy. This needs to be followed up, also to the health care community – we receive a lot of worry messages, we who are working on these things. Fifthly, the so-called PAS, Parental Alienation Syndrome, is not recognised in Norway and it should be emphasised that such references do not belong in a Norwegian court. Sixth, all actors are obliged to give these serious cases the highest priority. We need to take a closer look at the use of time, and whether the systems cause childhood to be lost while the parents are fighting and the justice system is falling apart. And for the seventh, child protection is, as a general rule, to report these matters to the police, not to conduct investigations on their own. It shall cooperate with the police, at the best of the child. Violence and abuse, especially when they occur in the family, are marked by a taboo culture well described in Siri Søftestad’s book ‘Sexual abuse — From Private Abuse to Intercultural Action’. Tabuculture includes all of us, including professionals. Incest is, if possible, even more taboo than so-called ordinary violence. Many people have very little knowledge, and most people do well to believe that children are exposed to it. And when you don't believe it, you don't see it either. The support centre movement has said this for years: ‘Incest is to be spoken in public, not in public.’ The incest centre in Westfold is now doing a pioneer work where they are to talk to all children in Westfold’s primary schools, down to the age of seven. Violence and sexual abuse shall be brought to light, just as tobacco and alcohol have been part of children’s lives for years. This is likely to lead to the discovery of many new children. I am behind Vestfold's wish to have a children's house as soon as possible to provide the children and families with cross-border and competent assistance. Children’s homes, which are now established seven places in the country, will contribute to the provision of legal certainty to more people. Several children will explain themselves when they talk to safe and competent professionals in child-friendly environments. The forces of the children's houses are many, but most importantly, perhaps we are talking about violence and assault. That's why the children's houses exist. There's no taboos here, here's where the truth comes from. I have visited the children's home in Oslo and seen how important this is. In addition, it is essential that parents also receive help, and siblings, for that matter. Children’s homes often meet mothers — but also fathers — who may be very vulnerable, feeling shame, guilt and fear of the child’s health and development. The risk of revitalization, that is, of being re-exposed, is high. We know that offenders and violent perpetrators tend to find vulnerable children and women with offensive experiences from past relationships. Children's homes can help prevent new violations. Ensuring easy access for all children to children's homes must be a priority task for the government. I remember that most of the parties, including the SV and the Workers' Party, have made decisions at their national meetings to establish children's homes in all the counties of the country. These decisions came after Barna’s Questionnaire in 2008, and have to be followed up, seagoingly in the light of the evaluation results that are coming, which we also need to address. Lawyer Thea Totland wrote an eye-catching chronicle on January 6th this year, which I want to spend some time referencing from. Actually, it was strange that that chronicle did not carry out a major debate. Regrettably, her experiences are consistent with those I hear of, and are becoming more and more frequent. Last night during the seminar at the Incest Centre in Oslo, which was held here in Stortinget, it was established from various quarters that incompetence, lack of knowledge and poor organization and willingness to believe in children threaten the legal certainty of children. Totland writes: ‘As a child lawyer, I see a weekly lack of ability to provide children with the most elementary legal certainty, both in child protection, police and justice. The courts are not always able to give the children absolute priority in such cases. [[...]] [[...]] One finding of criminal convictions is that several cases of suspected abuse are referred to for civil law solutions in child-sharing cases.’ Totland writes that her experience as a child lawyer is that the court often takes the utmost account of collective parental contact before the need to protect the child from the risk of abuse. She claims that the courts tend to reward those of the parents who are attending a community arrangement, almost regardless of the reason why the other party has filed a case. She writes: ‘I have, as a lawyer, seen several examples of the court deciding that the child should stay permanently with Father. [[suspected of being an attacker]] I can unfortunately confirm this. In two of the matters I have gone into thoroughly, the children have told several different bodies that the fathers have both abused them and been threatening and violent. This court has put a line over it, referring to the mother having probably planted these ideas in the children. PAS is in the air. In the last year, I've met a number of mothers with similar stories, and I think we now need to go systematically into these matters, preferably through a research project. Totland believes that some of the problem is that the courts in these special cases of cohabitation are basing the presumption of innocence in criminal law, with strong evidence of conviction. She claims it is common to point out that the case was dismissed according to the position of the document, as if there were no grounds for concern. It can also be said that most of the cases of this type are brought to justice. The risk of abuse shall, on its own, provide a basis for the protection of the child. This is clearly stated in the preparatory work of the Children’s Act. The Minister of Justice has repeated this before the courts, but they seem to ignore the message. They lean heavily on the experts, and often all parties show a alarming lack of insight both in the way children express themselves, the consequences of trauma for both children and adults — not least memory loss, dissociation and this kind of thing — and in the very phenomenon of incest and violence, including the extent of this. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister for Children: Is he open to consider how we have chosen to deal with child distribution issues in Norway and, where appropriate, to review the proposal of the minority in NOU 1998:17 on child distribution issues, where they proposed to deal with child distribution issues and care matters in the same body? Will he discuss with the Minister of Justice the special needs of children and the health and development of children, and is there sufficient weight to consider the establishment of a specialised court in family matters, at least requiring specific skills and training from relevant professionals, including judges and experts? Does he see that child-sharing issues and child-restraint issues can go hand in hand, and that it can be beneficial for children to get a more comprehensive assessment one place? Does he see that time is a critical factor for children's health and development, and that it may also be right for this reason to consider a solution in which to release parallel runs for one and the same child, and that strict demands for time use must be considered at all stages when children are involved? And finally, will he consider extending the mandate to children's homes so that they can talk to the children and possibly their parents, including in child distribution cases claiming violence or abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1117	I would first like to say that I am pleased that the interpellant addresses these questions – that gives us an opportunity for an important debate in Stortinget. I am concerned that all children should grow up in a safe environment and have the right to protection from physical and mental abuse. It is the child law that applies when parents bring a case before the court because they disagree on where the child is going to live permanently and on association, and the guide for that kind of case should be the best of the child. The Children’s Act shall protect the child; no child shall have relations that are not for the child’s benefit. As I will come back to, the ministry has had and will continue to have a strong focus on measures to ensure the best possible treatment of child law cases where there are allegations of violence and abuse. Private-law conflicts between the parents on residence and association must be resolved in accordance with the rules of the Children’s Act. At the same time, it is important that child protection takes its responsibility for the child’s care situation in cases where the parents’ high level of conflict after a break-up involves care failure or where the child is suspected of being subjected to violence and abuse by a cohabiting parent. Child protection has traditionally taken a role too far away here, and I will now have a new supervisor who makes clear the responsibilities of child protection – the role that child protection should play in these matters. I would also like to stress that it is very important to report to the Child Welfare Service about serious concerns for the child. It is also related to the work we are doing to get more notifications earlier regarding children who are suffering from care failure. We also rely on the auxiliary equipment and the police to deal with and follow up on issues where children need protection. And children's homes, as the interpellant has mentioned, are very good examples of measures that can provide children with cross-cutting and competent assistance. About 75 pst. by the parents who dissociate or consider bringing proceedings before the court, agree on the place where the child is to live permanently and on the place of association, after mediation at the family protection offices. Parents who bring cases before the courts have a high level of conflict. In most of the cases, the judge allows himself to be assisted by pediatric experts in order to help parents obtain good contractual solutions through mediation and trial of agreements during a probationary period, such as: A settlement is made in approx. 80 pst. of cases brought before the courts. Cases in which there are allegations of violence and abuse will often be suitable for more traditional court proceedings, with main proceedings and judgment and thorough expert investigation. It is important that child law is dealt with individually. The focus on cooperation at the best of the child in matters where both parents are well-suited should not lead to serious concerns and concerns for the child being obscured in matters where this is a problem issue. This is referred to in the legislative process and other actions of the Ministry, and it is important to put on the agenda. Community law is strong, both legal and political in Norway. However, it is quite clear, and expressly according to the Children's Act, that there should be no provision for association where it is not for the best of the child. The aim of the legislative amendments made in 2006 was to ensure that the courts are adequately aware of the seriousness of the adverse effects of violence or violence on children and that this is emphasised in the decision. In particular, where a cohabiting parent is intended or convicted of violence, questions may be raised as to whether the child is adequately protected if the resident parent does not refuse to accompany him or her or to refrain from bringing an action for amendment before the Court of Justice for the dispensation of association where the best interests of the child so require. I have set up a working group with the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and the Ministry of Inclusion and the Ministry of Justice to assess whether there is a need for further legislative changes to ensure better protection for vulnerable children, precisely because I am concerned about this issue. This working group shall assess the need for clarifications in the rules of procedure of the courts in order to ensure a thorough explanation and investigation of cases where there are allegations of violence and abuse. I would also like to consider measures to strengthen the participation of children in child law, and I am pleased that the interpellant takes it up. There is something I have been very concerned about, among other things. in the development of child protection. That's something the United Nations Children's Committee has brought up with us. It's obvious that in different areas we have a way of going about children's right to be heard and children's right to participate, not just because it's a morally important question that they're involved, heard, but I'm very sure that it's more often going to make it easier to make the right decision. Under the Children’s Act, the child is entitled to be heard from the age of seven, but younger children are also to be heard in line with the Children’s Convention. However, the child’s opinion will continue to be one of several elements to be included in an overall assessment and there may be other factors that need to be given greater weight. When the child reaches the age of 12 years, high emphasis shall be placed on what the child thinks. Recent research shows positive results by hearing children mainly from the age of seven, and shows that two thirds of decisions are in line with children’s wishes. However, we still have challenges in both child law and child protection matters, and I am very concerned about following it up further. It is very important that judges, lawyers, experts and employees at family protection offices have knowledge of the serious adverse effects of violence and abuse, and of good practices in such cases. We have already initiated continued cooperation with the Court of Justice administration against common regional competences for judges, lawyers, experts and employees in the family protection accounts. We want future technical seminars to deal with issues where there is a claim of violence and abuse on the agenda. I will also launch a development project related to the handling of high-conflict cases. We also need more knowledge about how the courts in practice deal with child law with violence and abuse issues, and my department has taken initiatives to research that can give us more knowledge of this. Judges have extensive experience in mediation in different kinds of cases, and they usually use well-trained child professionals in child law matters. I believe that the reinforcement measures I have outlined could make the courts even better equipped to take good care of the special needs of child distribution cases. I also see that specialisation among judges in handling cases under the Children's Act could promote more equal and competent treatment, and that there may be good reasons to combine this with mandatory empowerment for judges. We have given signals about this and will follow up to the Court of Justice. Several of the specific questions we have the opportunity to get closer to the word change gradually, but the question that is being addressed is something we have to face with the greatest seriousness. That is why I have started both the working group I have mentioned and various measures to strengthen the competence of those who are going to deal with these kinds of issues. Therefore, my general answer to the question of further changes is that I am open to all changes that strengthen children's legal certainty, which strengthens children's right to be heard. I think it's natural that we are initially going through what changes we can make to make the existing system work even better. It is also the objective of both the skills-enhancing measures we are now taking, and of the work we are doing to assess changes both in legislation and practice. But I'm going to those discussions with an open mind. I am pleased that the issue is addressed in the Storting, and I look forward to a further debate with constructive input on how we can move forward with the enormously important work of ensuring that we are both able to detect several violent crimes, that we are able to ensure children's rights in such matters, and that we are able to achieve a good interaction between the legislation we have on child distribution matters and the legislation we have on child protection and on the intervention of society in matters where we are faced with serious care failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1149	I would like to thank you for your answer. I think this is very promising. There is a lot of work going on both from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Justice now, and in cooperation between the two departments. I hope you can get with the Ministry of Health to a greater extent than you have now. This work, I think, is going to get concrete results in the law too, and I think we have to do that. I am particularly pleased to hear that the Department is prepared to assess the competence requirements of judges. I would strongly recommend that dialogue with the departments concerned should also ensure the same for experts. I hear from many teams now that judges rely to a large extent on the experts to the extent that the experts have actually been made the closest to judges. We also know that many experts do not have competence in violence or incest, and that the same applies there as most people do, namely that you really do not want to believe that it is happening, and that you are looking for other types of explanations. Then the seventh and last child becomes the most important moment here and the central one to discover these matters. The problem now is that very many of these children don't dare to talk, unless we really do the right thing to make them dry. What we know from research, and which is also referred to on the websites of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, is that there are three factors that are particularly important for children to say something about this. One is that they had an opportunity to tell. The second is that it had a purpose to tell, and the third is that in the conversation there was a connection to the topic of assault. This means that, in addition to the fact that children’s homes will be an important venue for ensuring the safety and the ability of children to say something about what they have been exposed to, the others who meet children outside the legal system must also be involved in getting these children to stand up. What we see too much is that the taboo lid that's been over these things, or that's been lying there all along, helps the kids not to dare. They don't think they're going to be believed, and they don't feel safe that they're going to be taken seriously. What I have seen in too many cases lately is that the sea where the children tell directly to several different bodies – including the health services, including in court hearings – that they have been subjected to abuse and have named that person, it is effectively set aside if an expert can make any suggestion that this probably does not work anyway, sail if the expert has not even talked to the child sail. Then I begin to become seriously concerned. Then I think, if we go as far as we do in part of these things, there are a lot of other sinners out there as well, which we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1158	I am pleased that the interpellant sees positively the various measures that I outlined in my answer. I think it is very important that we take the discussion on how we can get the most appropriate treatment of issues that are both about the classic issues of child law and about issues relating to the area of responsibility of child protection. There are clear similarities, which the interpellant points to, but of course also differences between child law and child protection matters. The assessment theme of the typical child-distribution case, where both parents are appropriate, is different from the assessment theme of the typical child-protection case, where the question is whether parents have sufficient care. At the same time, as the interpellant is just pointing out, it is absolutely essential that the issue of violence, abuse and care failure is actually given the emphasis it should have on matters where there is a presence. Then I think that not least the question of competence, of ensuring that these kinds of cases are dealt with by someone who has sufficient prerequisites for making the right decisions, is very important. I believe the question of the children's houses, which the interpellant raises, is an important question. We have such positive experiences with the children's houses. It was the representative of Thorkildsen himself who first proposed to establish children's houses in Norway here in Stortinget. It has proved to be a proposal that has meant something very concrete and very positive for many children. The evaluation of the children’s home to be carried out will give us the opportunity to discuss whether changes should be made in the way children’s homes work, responsibility, in the future. I think it's very positive that we're getting that evaluation going. It's the Ministry of Justice that's responsible for it. Then I am very concerned that we are able to raise the perspective of children's right to be heard, wide in all our work on children and children's rights. I have placed great emphasis on this in the work on child protection. That's why we have, among other things, recently completed the first user study in the field of child protection. It's a paradox that it's never been done before. But I'm concerned that we're going to be able to have the same perspective in child distribution matters. I believe that both the examples that the representative draws up and the perspectives she has in her interpellation are important in that work, and that will be part of the basis for the assessments we are going to make further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1167	I first of all want to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic here in Stortinget. We'll see if there'll be a big debate about it – there could probably be more in the room, but there's still time for more to come. It's a very important topic that's being addressed. What the interpellant has for this, we don't doubt at all. It is good that we have a debate on this. In the case of child distribution cases, there is a high level of conflict. The evolution we see today, that very many cases are brought before the courts, and that there has been a strong increase in child distribution cases in the courts, is very worrying. The party of progress has always been of the opinion that there should be automatic sharing of care in the event of a breakup, so that there might be fewer conflicts. But we see that there are major conflicts. When there is a conflict between the parents, it hits the children. Then the interpellant was in the middle of situations where mother was accused of lying about father in terms of abuse. It could go either way. We know of several cases in which Father feels unjustly condemned and loses the right to coexist because Mother has spread a lie about him as a father. Nevertheless, there is something that can happen both ways, and we know that it is the child that gets hit when there is a conflict of association. What's also very worrying is that there's a very long waiting time for mediation. To get to mediation, so that you could avoid these cases getting into courtrooms, it's too long waiting time. I hope that the Council of State can take it along, so that something is done about the long wait it is to get to mediation. It is also important to have good training of the courts and judges. We live in a state of law, and that's how you're innocent until the opposite is proven. Once again, that's what the rule of law is. That's what we have to have at the bottom of things like that. And then we know that there are cases where you're wondering why the courts made the decisions they made, when there's clear evidence. I think there's a lot in relation to the training of the judges. It is important that we have judges in the judicial system who have special knowledge of children and such situations. The hearing of children is also incredibly important, and I am pleased that the Council of State has taken it with it in child protection matters. We're not going to discuss child protection issues so carefully today, we're going to do that next week. But that children must be heard, it is not likely to say too often. Then go to the children's house. It's the interpellant that's the mother of the children's home. With good support from the other parties on Stortinget, children's houses were introduced. I myself have visited several children's houses. It is nice to see the work being done in the children's houses, and it is good to see that more children's houses are now being created around. But what is worrying is the long waiting time that the children who are being assaulted have to go through in order to get to trial. It's totally unsustainable. In the last period, when the Judicial Committee met with the children's home in Troms, we were told that it was up to several months waiting, and when the family committee was in Troms last year – two years after – we were told that it was exactly the same waiting time. The Minister of Justice has said that he will do something about it, but nothing will be done about it. What we see is that it's often the judges who train such cases, and that's not how we can do it. When the Storting has decided that we should have these children's houses, and when it's about small children, where it can be a waste of evidence – it's important that they are allowed to be questioned as soon as possible – then we can't sit here and see that it's too long a wait. I hope that the Council of State will take this further work with me and get something done as quickly as possible. We were a little concerned about children being subjected to violence from their parents. When the Storting had the Children's Act for treatment in 2010, the Progress Party proposed that there should be better protection for children who are being violated by their parents, because we see that they still have rights of association, even if they have been in prison because they have committed violence. The proposal was turned into a transmission proposal, so I could now imagine that the Council of State explained a little where that proposal lies in the further reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1190	I would like to start by thanking Mr Thorkildsen for putting a very important item on the agenda. I think the initiative taken by the representative is very positive, and I think it is important that the Stortinge discusses this issue, because in many areas the legal certainty of the child is not adequately ensured. There is no doubt about it, and it is therefore important that the Storting is concerned about this and discusses how we can strengthen children's legal certainty in many fields. In a theme issue published by the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate, it is very good, very important, about children’s participation in decision-making processes, not least related to the Child Protection Act. It refers to research that shows how important it is for children's experience to be heard. I'll quote a little from that paper: ‘Children’s right to participation is therefore largely about participation and participation, i.e. getting information and making decisions with others. The right to participate represents a fundamental human right, namely the right to influence and to participate in important matters of your own life. There is a fundamental need to have an influence in your own life. This also applies to children. Research into child care involvement concludes that children would like to be heard, but they know well that they cannot decide for themselves. Several studies show that children also do not want to make decisions alone on difficult issues, but they want to get involved and say what they themselves think when matters affecting them are decided.’ I think this is very well written. This is also a little bit of what we know is the starting point and the basis of the laws we have about children's rights and influence over their own lives. But I think several of us see that in too many areas the law is present, but the practice is quite different. This is a difficult job, but an important job. I am therefore pleased with what the United Nations Children’s Committee also says, namely that they are ‘thinking that the child’s right to be heard is not fully implemented in practice or effectively practiced in all stages of the process of making decisions or establishing arrangements for the lives of children’. So for another study, carried out in Trondheim: The head of the Children's Guard in Trondheim, Berit Skauge, who has 25 years of child protection service, recently defended his master's mission, "Is there anyone who wants to listen to me?" Her hypothesis was that the child's voice is a little clearer than before, but not much. Berit Schauge got a discouraging result. She found that the child was even less informed than before and included in her own case. This is worrying. It actually shows that it goes in the wrong direction in relation to what you might have wanted, and in relation to what you wanted when the law came into place. The way Schauge measured this was to review the case file for 100 children. She has examined as many as 50 directories from 2000 and 50 directories from 2009, and all the children she looked at were between seven and twelve years of age. This is not accidental, because in 2003 the Children’s Act was amended so that children in this age group should also be informed and given the opportunity to comment before making decisions for them. Next week we're going to deal with a case in this room that's just about children's rights and influence over their own lives. It is enshrined in the Children's Act, and it is enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, but we see that practice is quite different. I hope that some of the parties in this room might turn around before that time in relation to what they have expressed now, namely that the red-green parties would not support such a proposal. That's what I think sad, because the representative of Thorkildsen now comes up with, just goes into that proposal, and I hope that the red-green ones will be there to support the children's cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1206	Thanks to the interpellant for putting a very important theme on the agenda. At the same time, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for a fine and very strong seminar on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the SMI. Let's first say that only the best is good enough for children – not only when it comes to good care and support in life from parents and caregivers, but also in the form of respect as an individual and being taken seriously in all situations of life. Children’s legal certainty must be a brilliant and strong element which must be the starting point for all proceedings in a system in which children are involved. As a magnificent representative, we are in different committees. This area is not assigned to my committee, but as a representative, fellow human being, mother and grandmother, it is clearly a few different messages from different sources, even when it concerns children. I was quickly contacted by others who were just, or have been, in situations where one is forced to ask himself the question: Are children being heard and taken seriously in this country? Unfortunately, the answer is no in most child protection and distribution issues. Let's call him Petter, he's 12 years old. These are his words: I try to write again and again because I want to say again what I mean about where I'm going to stay, and how I want it in my life. I want to be home with my mother and my brothers. There I had it well and got care. Now everything is just black and miserable, and I've lost everything that I was happy about. Why should I feel like this? I'm anxious and scared and give up soon. None of those who decide, listen to me, no matter what. In this case, it is special that of the numerous documents that are carefully written down from who they are, and about what, there is not one proper letter that is attached to the case where the child has been written or said what it means. No document from the child himself or her directly. This is not a simple matter, but it shows a problem that many people have raised with their concerns about – and not just children, but also professionals who are involved in different situations when children are involved. They don't have competence, and they don't know what to do compared to hearing children. This is scary. The representative of Hofstad Helleland was involved in this investigation that had emerged, and I also want to say something about it. This was a master's project at NTNU in Trondheim, which highlights just this. In 70 p.m. there is no evidence that the case handler has spoken to the child himself. This is serious, and here one goes in the opposite direction than what was intended when the Children's Act was changed in 2003, when children of the age group aged seven to twelve would be heard and heard before a decision was taken for them. One would think that the children's voices would be clearer now, but no. I, as a mother, a fellow human and a big-time representative, get a pretty bad feeling that by not having proper routines on this, we fail a lot of kids and cause them an injustice, which can happen to them later in life. This one must do something about it, and it must do it immediately. When Section 6-3 of the Children’s Protection Act states that seven-year-old children are to be given the opportunity to express themselves and that the child’s opinion is to be added to the child’s weight according to his or her age and maturity, it is quite clear. So you do 70 pst, you do 70 pst. of the child-restraint cases. This is bad. In addition, we have Article 9 paragraph of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. 1 and Article 12, cf. Section 2 paragraph of the Law on Human Rights 4 – Even after this Convention, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental. What should we do with all these clear and clear laws when they are not used and followed? Enough is enough. The Minister has a task ahead of him that should be put on the agenda now. We don't have any children to lose, but we have some surprises with adults who don't do their job to the most valuable ones we have, i.e. children who are going to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1232	First, I would like to commend the interpellant for addressing important issues through the debate that has taken place. Violence and abuse against young people can never be combated severely enough. Young people who suffer, either because of abuses or conflicts between adults, deserve that we as a society put all the efforts we can make both to prevent this happening and to follow up with consequences when it actually happens. Sexual assault on young people can and must never be attempted in the heart; on the contrary, it must be discussed. It has to meet with openness, and it has to be lifted up in the light, because we know that it's happening far more than what we like to think about, in community around the country. We, who work with kids in different contexts through our political work, meet with many notions of weaknesses in the legal security of young people in the area of child protection, in the area of justice and in child distribution matters. In terms of assault and violence, there is no doubt that there are too few cases that come to investigate, there are too few cases that come to court, and there are too few perpetrators and perpetrators who are convicted of that kind of assault. As politicians, we need to use resources to do something about it. For us, it's easy to explain. At the same time, the challenge for those sitting in the courts is actually to distinguish who is to be judged, who is to get that judgment, and in which cases you can make it probable that something has happened, so that you can make a judgment. That's what's the challenge in that debate. Nevertheless, it is important, as the interpellant points out, to strengthen the competence of children and young people across the whole chain of all actors and bodies meeting young people in that context, not least in the courts themselves. In the area of child protection, too, we are told that the legal certainty of children is not well enough. It is therefore important to continue to work to improve child protection processes in order to ensure greater legal certainty. It's a challenge in all the different kinds of things we're talking about here, that kids aren't being heard to a large enough extent. We have to do something about that, and it has also been pointed out by most of the others who have spoken in the debate. At the same time, there will also be a balance between listening to young people and asking for their views and not doing so in a way that makes young people feel responsible for the decisions taken. Children’s distribution issues are, as the interpellant also points out, too often an arena where conflicts between adults affect young people. The question in this area, which in the other areas we are dealing with here, is: how can we prevent young people from suffering unnecessarily as a result of the behaviour of adults? I then use the opportunity to ask questions again about why the government has not seen the enormous potential of lifting family protection, lifting up cohabitation measures, a course in life and giving family protection the opportunity not only to take statutory duties and to deal with the queues they receive, but actually to take preventive action to prevent conflicts between adults causing young people suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1251	I would like to thank the Council of States for an uplifting debate, and I would like to thank the Council of States specifically for responding to challenges in an offensive way, both in the case of children’s homes – that it may now be time to assess the mandate in connection with their evaluation, and to see whether they will be used in several types of cases, or whether one should not have to report the matter in order to explain to the competent professionals who work there – and in the case of judges, that one will assess requirements for formal competence. It's very positive. I would then like to complement it again by saying that experts must also be taken into account. The launch of development projects and research by the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion is also very positive in child distribution cases where violence and abuse are suspected. The involvement of children is also a subject that is constantly being debated in the Committee for which the Council of State meets. It's also extremely important. Among others Laila Marie Reiertsen pointed to this, and so did Linda Hofstad Helleland. I think, unfortunately, it's too often that you don't talk to the kids directly. We have probably also received evidence of this in various types of studies. I thought for many years that it was what child protection did, it was talking to children, that it was what they were trained to do. But it turns out that child protection does not have the competence to talk to children in the first place. They're not taught to talk to children. I believe that we need to make sure that they can do more. So this is the time aspect, which many people have been dealing with. We have to take real care of that. I believe that we need to drier more than ever to rule especially police and courts. There I have heard the Minister of Justice recently make very uplifting, offensive promises, not least in Westfold a week ago. Then, of course, we're going to present a big message about the welfare state's professions. It's a very good opportunity to say something about these things and how important it is to raise the topic of violence and assault. If the topic is not discussed and you don't get competence about the scope of this – it's actually very scary scale studies we have now – then we won't reveal it either. Because, as I said, and as the incest centers have been saying every year, you don't see it until you believe it. So Solvency Horne has been aware that there are also fathers who are being subjected to – what to say – manipulation and false accusations from the counterparty. That's also true, of course, but most of the perpetrators are still men, showing these investigations as we do about scale, and most of the cases brought forth are brought forth by mothers. But I think it is very good that the representative Horne also raised the question of association when one has even been convicted of abuse. We have to get that straight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1266	The representative Solvency Horne wanted, I think, really for the second time -- because it's been a while since the last debate we had -- a broader commitment to the Storting around the questions we often discuss. It's a wish it's easy to join. But this is a good example of that, as one of the members of the Finance Committee has also raised a question in our area in the Stortinget. I will briefly discuss some of the issues that have been raised in the debate. Firstly, the representative asked Horne for the work that I announced to the Stortinget last year, and which I also had in my first post today, namely the various issues that came up last year, which asked questions about what is happening to children where a parent is convicted of violence, and where association is still agreed. I replied to the Storting at the time that I wanted to look at opportunities to change the law, so that it gives better protection to the children. We are investigating the need for legislative changes, and I am aiming to send out a possible consultation note to the general hearing by the end of the year. So there's a work that will be followed up from our side. Then I would just like to point out to the debate on automatic shared care, which often comes up from the Progress Party, that I have a strong commitment to stronger rights and greater recognition of fathers as caregivers. I think it is absolutely crucial, and the debate we have today illustrates why it should always be the best of the child that underlies the decisions taken. Therefore, it is a discretionary assessment and not automatic in relation to a particular consensual solution that should be the basis of the law. That's the right thing to do in my eyes and in the eyes of the government. Then I take seriously what the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland brought up in connection with research. The results of the work she pointed to are worth looking at. At the same time, let me just mention what I also mentioned in my post: Newer research, from 2010 at researcher Kristin Sjørten, shows positive findings related to children being heard mainly from the age of seven, but here we need a good knowledge base in the future. I want to thank everyone who has taken part in a constructive debate, and I can promise Stortinget that the things I have mentioned will be followed up continuously in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1280	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1296	Hundreds of years ago, millions of women marched in the streets around Europe on the first International Women's Day. They claimed the same right as men to work, they would end in discrimination, and they would help shape their own future. A hundred years later, the reality remains that women are more likely to be exposed to poverty, they only earn 10 pst. of the total income of the world, but accounts for two thirds of all work done. They are still the most vulnerable to illiteracy, and in many countries they are still told what they can and cannot do, and they must be subject to strict and conservative dress codes. Saudi Arabia seems to be the country of the Arab Spring forgotten. Saudi Arabia is now trying in the situation they see in the region around it, using its economic and, in part, diplomatic muscles to prevent the wave of revolution from reaching the country. The authorities express concern at both the stability of the country and the strength of the region’s dynamics. They may be particularly concerned about Iran. I will come back to this in a later article. In the speech that President Barack Obama gave in May about the Arab Spring, he did not mention Saudi Arabia by name. A deafening omission, seen with human rights eyes. Nevertheless, many believe that he indirectly addressed the country, which has traditionally been an important ally with the United States in terms of regional security and energy. Obama stated that ‘the status quo is unsustainable’, and there is little doubt that the Saudi-Arabia-US bond is severely weakened after 11 September 2001. The Saudi response that the U.S. was so quick after the riots took off in Egypt pressed for Mubarak to go off has been strong. Saudi Arabia also takes measures to support other monarchies in the region, and the US position on Mubarak is said to be the direct reason why Saudi Arabia sent military forces to Bahrain to prevent King Hamad from being deposed. The Arab uprising taking place around Saudi Arabia has contributed to feeding the distrust. The human rights situation in Saudi Arabia gives rise to deep concern. According to Amnesty’s 2011 annual report on Saudi Arabia, women are still subject to legal and practical discrimination and are subjected to domestic and external violence. We have concrete things about children – girls down at the age of twelve who have to marry men of 80. We also see that there are major challenges to issues relating to torture and human rights in general. The latest Universal Periodic Review on Saudi Arabia in the Human Rights Council included: address issues such as death penalty, torture, the position of religious minorities, the protection of human rights activists, freedom of expression and, in particular, women's rights. Among others, Egypt, the United Kingdom, Israel, Bahrain, Canada, Sweden and Norway raised questions related to women’s rights. It's about giving women full civil rights, including voting rights in line with men. It is about full access to work, education, health care for women, removing the strict system of women having to have male associations and giving women full freedom of movement. Canada also specifically raised the ban on women driving cars. In the big context, it may seem like a very small problem, but in reality, it's an expression of something far more, namely a gross and systematic suppression of women. The whole reason is to prevent women from moving freely, and thus, of course, to prevent independence and freedom. Combined with the rules that all women should be subjected to a male corps in the family, women can in principle move freely very few places — without the consequence of a man. Another factor that underlines the limitations of women’s freedom of movement is that Saudi Arabia does not have a public transport system as an alternative to a car. On 8 November 1990 a fatwa was issued in Saudi Arabia which prohibited women from driving a car. Since 2005, there have been many discussions about this in the country. The last time women acted against the driving ban, the few who showed this favour, the travel ban for one year, they lost their job for two and a half years, and they were condemned by the performance. As we have seen elsewhere in the Middle East and North Africa this spring, social media played an important role in re-establishing the debate – and thanks to the social media, the debate was also spread to a much larger audience beyond the borders of Saudi Arabia. On May 4th this year, Saudi women started a Facebook group, where they announced that they would drive a car in a couple of weeks on Friday June 17th. The campaign is also followed up on Twitter. This has been followed by several arrests of women who have been taken to drive a car, and some of them because they have additionally posted video clips of their activities on YouTube. Manal al-Sharif was arrested after putting out such a clip, and she was held in the arrest for almost ten days and released only when she promised not to take part in the action on 17 June. Several commentators in Saudi Arabia have pointed out that what distinguishes the debate now from the earlier debate is that it is now emerging in other circumstances – the uprising in the Middle East and North Africa are behind. The editor-in-chief of the London-based newspaper Asharq Al-Awsat, Tariq Alhomayed, writes that, in comparison with the revolutions that are now raging across the Arab world, this theme could lead to a similar situation and similar turmoil in Saudi Arabia. The director of Al Arabiya wrote in an article that a lot has happened since the issue of the fatwa — the population has increased from 14 million to 27 million, and women have become increasingly involved. Women’s rights defenders in Saudi Arabia have written an open letter to US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and EU Head of State Catherine Ashton, asking them to go out publicly and support women’s right to drive a car — a campaign that is considered the most important women’s rights movement in the country over the past two decades. Norway is just elected to the UN Women's Board of Directors, and we also have seats in the Human Rights Council. It gives us an opportunity to address issues related to human rights, and perhaps especially women's rights, with Saudi Arabia. There is reason to expect strong opposition internally to the action. Men have been encouraged to use the tapes on their headgear to beat female actionists next Friday. On 17 June it becomes important to see in Saudi Arabia what is now seen elsewhere in the Arab world: a massive and ongoing protest against repression. The Shura Council of Saudi Arabia recently stated that women should be given the right to vote. It is not the decision of the Shura Council, and it is quite significant that the opinion came shortly after the deadline for registration of the local elections expired in September. Nevertheless, the opinion may be seen as a little glimpse of hope in an otherwise very difficult situation for Saudi women. The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore what Norway can do to support the rights of Saudi women and whether he will respond to harassment and arrests of Saudi women who challenge the driving ban, for example. in relation to the planned action on 17 June?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1332	The interpellant asks about Norway’s position on women’s rights in Saudi Arabia. The condition of human rights, and not least women's rights both in this country and in parts of the Middle East, is an important topic for debate. Let me begin by pointing out that we have to accept different traditions and cultural and religious diversity in the world, but it can never be used as an excuse to violate international human rights. Human rights are universal, precisely because they are to apply to everyone, regardless of religion, race, sex, age or where you live. Non-discrimination is one of the most fundamental principles of international human rights. Saudi Arabia practices extensive discrimination against women. Women, as we have just heard, must have the consent of their male guardian, who is usually a father or a husband, in order to take work, apply for ID cards, take education and travel abroad. Victims of rape are punished. Women cannot drive a car and are very strict requirements to cover themselves. Although this should be an expression of a different culture and tradition, foreign to us, I would like to stress that this policy that leads to discrimination against women is regrettable and incomprehensible to us. The Norwegian authorities deal with this every time we contact the authorities and the political leadership of Saudi Arabia. The Saudis know Norwegian positions well. We will continue to be clear to them in terms of discrimination against women and violations of fundamental human rights. As the interpellant refers to, Saudi Arabia has neither ratified the Convention on Civil and Political Rights nor the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. However, the country has acceded to four other UN conventions on human rights: the Racial Discrimination Convention, the Torture Convention, the Women’s Convention and the Children’s Convention. However, the Saudi authorities have made a general reservation in all these conventions against provisions that they consider to be contrary to Islam – without further specification. I say this because other countries that put emphasis on Islam do not follow Saudi practices. These vague and general reservations, which have also been criticised internationally and locally, including: by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and by the local organisation National Society for Human Rights, it is difficult to assess the extent to which the kingdom feels bound by the conventions. It is therefore important to continue to take up the obligations of Saudi Arabia under the Conventions and to point out that they do not conflict with Islam. In recent years, political contacts between Norway and Saudi Arabia have been strengthened. Despite major political and cultural differences, Saudi Arabia is an important partner for Norway. Saudi Arabia is a member of the G20, is the world's most important oil country and has, among other things, also ambitious solar energy development plans. Both Norway and Saudi Arabia have a common interest in stable oil prices and the development of technologies that can reduce climate emissions from oil and gas. In addition, Saudi Arabia is an important player in the Middle East. King Abdullah is behind the Arab peace initiative, and the country is the largest Arab giver to the Palestinian self-government authorities. Increased contact with the Saudi authorities has given a wider arena to address human rights issues as well. During my visit to Riyadh in 2008, human rights issues were raised, including with the State Human Rights Commission. In May 2010, human rights were on the agenda of Prince Salman's visit to Oslo by Riyadh Governor. Visitors representing the population have also raised human rights issues with Saudi authorities. These issues will continue to be high on the agenda for all visiting delegations at political level between our two countries. It is the open political links that make such dialogue practicable. The situation of women also needs to be addressed through international cooperation, in multilateral processes. Norway is therefore involved in this in the forums in which we participate, and not least in the UN Human Rights Council, where both Saudi Arabia and Norway are members. Norway encourages the United Nations to maintain a high level of commitment to Saudi Arabia through a visit by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and Special Rapporteurs. During the so-called land hearing, UPR, by Saudi Arabia, in the UN Human Rights Council, Norway addressed the situation of women in the country. Norway supported the recommendation that Saudi Arabia should abolish the system of male breeding. I encourage Saudi Arabia to follow up on this as soon as possible. The work on improving the position of women and combating trafficking in human beings is also one of the areas of intervention in the internal plan of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Riyadh Embassy, dated October 2010, for the work on human rights in Saudi Arabia. As the interpellant points out, both Norway and Saudi Arabia are members of the board of directors of UN Women. This is a completely newly created organization, and I can't say that we have moved on to establish active cooperation with Saudi Arabia yet. However, the potential is there. A short time ago – May 19th – Saudi Arabia’s first ambassador to Norway gave his credentials to H.M. Kong Harald. With that Saudi Arabia is the first golfing Arab country to establish an embassy in Norway. This is a clear signal that Saudi Arabia wants increased cooperation with our country. Already in my first meeting with the ambassador, I stressed that human rights will be one of the themes on which we should have direct and open communication. This also wants the ambassador. As for our own embassy in Riyadh, it has close contact with like-minded countries about information on the human rights situation and possible responses to human rights violations. An informal group of EU countries and other western countries, in which Norway is present, meets regularly. To support Saudi women's rights, we therefore maintain a continuous and clear focus on human rights during our political contacts with Saudi Arabia. Many of the young, untrue journalists who have contributed to more critical media in Saudi Arabia in recent years are women. Norway has wanted to strengthen these women’s position in the media sector in the country. I also met some of them during my visit to Riyadh. In the spring of 2010 there was a Saudi female journalist on a study visit to Norway, with a scholarship from the U.D. She was associated with the Evening Post, while attending a journalistic course at the University of Oslo and the University of Oslo. We want to be positive that possibly more Saudi women want to take such education in our country, and we want to try to connect them to relevant educational institutions, possibly combined with stays in Norwegian media businesses. Norway also supports a UNODC project against trafficking in human beings within the Arab League, such as the United Nations. focuses on Saudi Arabia as one of the most problematic in the region in this area. Women are particularly vulnerable to trafficking, begging and prostitution. The project, which will last over three years, will help to develop a regional strategy or convention against trafficking in human beings. A regional conference will be held in Saudi Arabia to strengthen the legislation of the Arab League countries. A seminar will also be held in Saudi Arabia for first-line police, judicial and prosecution agents. One problem in Saudi Arabia is the so-called sponsorship system, which implies that all foreign workers must have a Saudi sponsor, such as the former. must give the worker a green light in order to obtain an exit visa. Unfortunately, there are many cases in which sponsors use this to force foreign workers into completely unacceptable employment. In particular, the media has reported serious abuses by sponsors against female domestic assistants. Manal al-Sharif, the technology expert in Aramco, who was behind the Facebook campaign that encouraged women to drive a car on 17 June, was first imprisoned after being stopped in traffic control on 21 May, and was released that evening. A few hours later, she was arrested again by police officers and representatives of the religious police in her home. The arrest came after she had posted a film of herself on YouTube where she is driving a car. Both the Facebook page she established, “Teach Me How to Drive”, which had 11,500 trailers, and the YouTube movie has been removed after the arrest. This has caused the Twitter tags Free Manal and the Women2Drive to go hot. A number of new Facebook pages supported by al-Sharif have appeared. 2,000 Saudis signed an open appeal to King Abdullah demanding that she be immediately released from prison. On 30 May, fortunately, the message came that al-Sharif has been released, but the intent against her for disorder of order and for 'to have aroused public opinion', as it is called, is not apostate. After release, she has withdrawn from the campaign, while several other women have promised that they will still carry out the action on 17 June. Several other women have also posted videos of their own where they drive a car. Several Saudi media have mentioned the requirement to lift the ban on women driving with great sympathy. The Saudi Gazette newspaper has supported the lifting of the ban on leadership. The Advisory Assembly, Majlis A’Shora, has stated that they are ready to discuss the question ‘if asked’, as it is called. Prominent religious leaders, including the son of the respected former Stormumuftia of Saudi Arabia, bin Baz, have also stated that it does not conflict with Islam that women drive cars. This is one of several interesting voices that we can focus on. But there have also been negative reactions from religious scholars and conservative forces. A religious sheik urged King Abdullah to condemn al-Sharif public pissing, which he later withdrew. There are also two Facebook pages against female driving, several thousand of which say they will attack women and men who support the claim. The Human Rights Watch organization is among those who have made it clear to King Abdullah that al-Sharif had to be released. They indicated that the ban on female driving is contrary to the Women’s Convention, inter alia. § 15, which states that the authorities have an obligation to ensure that women and men have the same legal rights relating to the movement of persons. Saudi Arabia, as stated, has made a general reservation to the provisions of the Convention which are contrary to Sharia. At the same time, the Saudi authorities have stated, on a number of occasions, that Sharia does not prohibit driving. Nevertheless, they are now using a religious fatwa from 1990 to justify the connection; it is not clear from the law that women cannot drive a car. This fatwaen came after a group of women drove a car through the Saudi capital demanding to drive. To sum up, on the basis of this event, the Norwegian authorities will continue to follow the development of women’s rights in Saudi Arabia – in general and in principle – including their right to drive. The right to drive a car is one of many rights that I believe is of course for all women all over the world. That is why this is part of the great picture of the human rights situation in the country that we are discussing in our dialogue with Saudi Arabia, and through support for human rights organisations and multilateral work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1402	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. It is also so that the committee met with this Saudi prince, Prince Salman. It was remarkable that human rights was a topic he would rather not discuss, but the committee nevertheless took it up, naturally enough. But it is clear that, as the Foreign Minister says, Saudi Arabia is also an important partner. However, the important thing is that Norway uses the same standards in relation to human rights regardless of which country it is, regardless of whether it is a country that means a lot to Norway in terms of cooperation, or whether it is a country that means little to Norway. It should not be easier to criticise countries that do not matter than countries that are important. Let me also take the opportunity to go a little wider in relation to the region, because it is day-to-day in relation to what the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council are now discussing. There is a great dynamic in the whole region, and between the fierce political discussions – as the committee then actually experienced at close quarters – in Egypt, about what is happening in Tunisia, and about the military operation in Libya, there is now an uprising in other countries that is so far unsolved, and I am thinking in particular about Syria and Yemen. As far as Syria is concerned, Saudi Arabia has taken the view that King Abdullah first supported President Al-Assad. Then it became very quiet. Then some of the Friday beans have also been used in Saudi Arabia to support the insurgents. There is particular concern about the bond with Iran Saudi Arabia, and the strong position Tehran seems to have in the functioning of Al-Assad. The other country is Yemen. There has been an express desire to remove Saleh, because it is believed that the opposition actually represents greater stability. Nevertheless, Saleh has obviously perceived and remained in the hands of the players who have come from Saudi Arabia. An example is to the extent that Saudi Arabia has got tankers into Yemen to remedy the fuel shortage. It was taken as a sign of support. In Bahrain, I mentioned, soldiers were sent in to prevent King Hamad from leaving. In this context: the UN Security Council is today discussing a motion for a resolution condemning the violence in Syria. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs interpret developments in these countries? Does he hope that the developments now taking place in the United Nations and in the Security Council will have a positive impact on the demanding situation both in Syria and in Yemen?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1426	Today, we have marked in Oslo that it is 20 years since the Baltic states gained independence and independence. We also spent time looking at the contrast to what's now happening in the Arab world. The interpellant mentioned several countries. It's hard to give a consistent answer to that, because situations are so different. For Egypt, we hope that elections will be democratic, representative and peaceful, and that economic developments can begin – similar to those of Tunis. As far as Libya is concerned, we are appalled at what is happening to the Gaddafi regime, which continues to use violence against its own people. We are very concerned about developments in Syria, where the regime does not seem to have managed to address the need for reform and the wave of reform and has now entered a path where they are increasingly using violence. The situation is inconclusive, because we have few independent sources from the inside. Yemen is now heading towards a situation where they do not have leadership. It's not a lucky and funny scenario that we can experience on either side of the Gulfs of the Indian Ocean getting two so-called failed states – Somalia on one side and Yemen on the other. In the middle of this, Saudi Arabia plays an important role, because it is relatively stable in conditions – it is difficult to use the same units of measurement on this, because, after all, the countries are very different – and because it is a country that is active in many other countries and that is to some extent seen as a contrast to Iran’s growing influence. So to the question from the interpellant -- in a three-minute response, it's not easy to go very much in detail: do you have hope for this development? I believe that we must have hope. We need to relate to people's aspirations – respect for human rights, participation, democratic development, welfare development, work. I believe that some of the countries that choose that route have the opportunity to succeed. We see that in our time it is to oppose the kind of popular movements over some time the recipe that everything goes in the negative direction. I think that as a country we will have limited direct influence on each situation, but at least we will have to be clear in our statements. As the inter-pellant knows, the Storting has taken note that the government has joined the sanctions imposed on Syria by the EU. It is important that we have a clear and clear voice. However, while we do not support the imposition of unilateral sanctions by Norway, there is no point in Norway having no dialogue with these countries. We have embassies there – we can retrieve information, and we can convey our message. Very rarely, it is helpful that we do not have contact, and that we cannot communicate what we mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1441	The President will note, primarily to the interpellant, that follow-up questions and follow-up comments should be related to what was the content of the interpellant and her first post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1444	Saudi Arabia has gone from being a underdeveloped country to becoming one of the world's most prosperous nations, thanks to oil resources. When it comes to respect for human rights and putting an end to the extreme discrimination of women and the abuses against their own people, it is worse. It is well described here today, through the speeches of the previous speaker. A large overview of women's participation and influence is provided by the World Economic Forum. They document differences between men and women in four different areas: economic participation, education, health and political power. The report compares the gender situation in 115 countries. Yemen and Saudi Arabia come last and second to this gender equality ranking of countries. The legislation of Saudi Arabia is formalised by resolutions of their Council of Ministers and a consultative council and ratified by the King. Despite many extensions to the consultative council in recent years, the Council has now, as far as I know, no female representatives among the 150 members. This under-representation is one of several things that, of course, allows systematic discrimination against women to continue, and also shows that this is not religion, but primarily politics. Discrimination can continue because there is no political will in Saudi Arabia to do anything about it. Promoting women’s rights is one of Norway’s foreign policy priorities. It is important that we continue to do what we can in every possible forum to bring about changes in Saudi policy, as we do through a consistent approach in this area to all countries that violate human rights. Saudi Arabia is one of the world's largest aid donors and also one of the world's largest oil producers. This is one of several things that makes Saudi Arabia have a special position for many countries. The real policy shows that Norway must and should have increasing political contact with Saudi Arabia. Why am I saying this? Well, that's because their strong position as economic power alone can lead to the pressure on Saudi Arabia to promote human rights not getting strong enough. We can't accept that. On the contrary, this rug makes the world have good opportunities to put pressure on Saudi Arabia. The new Saudi Embassy, which opened in Oslo after the summer of last year, helps to strengthen relations between Norway and Saudi Arabia and thereby also the human rights dialogue between our countries. Norway has addressed the situation of Saudi women in the UN Human Rights Council. The embassy in Riyadh has an action plan on human rights. Norway supports an anti-trafficking project involving training in Saudi Arabia. We are committed to the Arab League establishing a regional convention against trafficking in human beings. This is, as far as I know, now ready and will be launched according to plan in Saudi Arabia in June. This is joyous. The hope is that the Convention will become binding and that it can contribute to the fight against trafficking in human beings, both in the region and in individual countries, including Saudi Arabia. As far as the death penalty is concerned, I believe that we must contribute to the creation of a broad international opinion and a broad international initiative against the death penalty. The situation today under central international law is that governments can say that the death penalty is part of their criminal law as foreigners, or abroad, have no right to look into it. The Norwegian Constitution of 1814 gave power back to the people and took power from offices and nobles. Democracy was then the foundation of a nation with a peaceful rule of the people and fundamental civil rights. My greatest heroes in the world are those who every day are exposed to dangers and discomfort by fighting for fundamental rights that for us are a matter of course. Driving Saudi women are part of those I admire. I support their struggle, and I am pleased with the work that Norway does every day to improve the human rights of people who don't have it like us in this world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1463	After listening to this debate, I'm not free to wonder which century I'm in. It's all so surrealistic that we have to discuss it in the Stortinget in 2011. It shouldn't have been like that. I react when I hear that Saudi Arabia is said to be an important partner and that political dialogue is needed. I can agree that we must have political dialogue, but I am perhaps more sceptical that we accept that Saudi Arabia is an important partner for cooperation, as long as those degrees break universal rights. First of course, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important topic on the agenda. I also didn't believe what I saw when I read that a Facebook group had been started that asked to beat a female driver in Saudi Arabia. At first I thought that this could not possibly be right, but unfortunately. On June 17th, women in Saudi Arabia have chosen to demonstrate against the ban on driving a car, and in good Sharia spirit now mobilize men, even on Facebook, all to beat a female driver. This does not surprise me when you see what attitudes you face not only in Saudi Arabia, but in most countries where the Sharia laws apply. Women will be punished if they are raped. Women are denied by their men to go out. Women mean just less in some parts of the world. That's why a rapist in Pakistan can allow himself to say that women are inferior and that you can use them for whatever you want. Saudi Arabia has a number of bans on women, regulations that suppress 50 pst. by the Saudi population. This has nothing to do with religion, all the time there are many Muslim countries treating their women equally. In Saudi Arabia, they themselves say that this is part of their culture, but that is not the case either; this is rather a demonic and oppressive system. Here are some of the rules for women in Saudi Arabia: A woman cannot move outside the home without either brother, father, husband, brother or son. A woman can't drive a car. A woman cannot inherit. A woman cannot demand a divorce. A woman cannot have the parental rights of the children. A woman can't be around men who don't belong to the family. To me, this sounds like considering women as an asset, and for the women involved, it has to be very unfree. But fortunately, the women in Saudi Arabia also wake up. On 17 June they will demand the right to drive a car, and there will be many brave women on the road. The religious police just a few days ago were attacked by a young woman and hit so hard that he had to go to the hospital. So women rebel – even though violence is not the trick. It can quickly help the religious police actually run an even stricter regime against women out there. Nevertheless, you can see that there are actually women who are dry. When women in such a oppressive country as Saudi Arabia make a settlement, is it not important that women around the world support them in this action? Is it not true that Norway is clear to Saudi Arabia as to what we think about this repression? How do you think Saudi Arabia should be able to have a positive impact on the work of UN Women? Yes, it is clear that it is important to have them within – I would probably think so too – but unfortunately, in recent years we have seen too many alliances through the unholy Trinity, namely that women get worse relationships because Catholics and Muslims ally on women's issues. So when such a fundamental women's repressive regime as Saudi Arabia gets its seat in UN Women, yes, then there's reason to call out a warning. For one thing is certain: Fundamentalists do not want women to be looked at with equivalency and respect. And we have to be careful not to go backwards into the future with these different alliances on women's issues and break completely universal rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1508	Let me first thank the committee chairman, Eriksen Soreide, for raising this question of what Norway can do to support women's rights in Saudi Arabia, and for the foreign minister's answer. At the same time, I believe that we should add even more perspective to that debate than women's rights in one Arab country alone. As the United Nations Development Programme has pointed out in its reports on development — or lack of development — in the Arab world, the weak rights of women and gender equality that we see here are a challenge across the region, although there are differences between countries. Women's conditions in Saudi Arabia and large parts of the Arab world are primarily a human rights problem. It is also a question of democracy. Women are discriminated against when they are denied universal rights which are enshrined in the UN Declaration on Human Rights. Secondly, this discrimination against women is also a major obstacle to economic and social development in large parts of the Arab world. This is documented in a number of studies and was a main theme of UNDP's 4th report on human development in the Arab world. A number of Arab countries have huge natural resources in the form of oil and gas, which have materially given them opportunities for wealth, wealth and general well-being, but hardly anywhere on the globe is characterized by greater social divisions. The women are among those who are most affected by this. Human Rights Watch has pointed this out in a striking way when they write the following: ‘for Saudi women, becoming an adult means no rights, only obligations.’ This is an illustrative example when the interpellant indicates that Manal al-Sharif was arrested in his home a few weeks ago because she had driven a car. Saudi Arabia is the only country in the world that refuses women to drive a car. I feel confident that the President will accept my characteristics as in parliamentary terms: this is simply insane! I think it is impossible to understand the diversity of treatment and discrimination between women that we see in Saudi Arabia, without looking at how the gender role pattern in Saudi society is related to their interpretation of Sharia legislation and the traditional tribal culture that characterises this country. The Arabian peninsula is from the old of nomadic tribes with an extremely patriarchal culture pattern. Separation of women and men and honorary concepts related to defined gender roles are key elements of this patriarchal tradition. Many Saudi women want changes. There is a discussion about what it means to be a Muslim woman today. Impulses from world democracies affect not least those who take higher education and travel internationally. But the Saudi upper class, with its many princes and princesses, is also engaged in preserving their traditions, riches and privileges. The picture is very contrasting. In my view, it is worrying that Islamist directions that will cleanse society of so-called modern changes have considerable support in parts of the Arab world. Extreme Islamists gather both inspiration and funding from just Saudi Arabia. It is not by chance that the recently deceased Al Qaida leader, Osama bin Laden, just came from this country. In Norway, we see with hope and expectation that the Arab Spring can give more democracy and human rights to people who have long had to live with authoritarian regimes. If the popular uprisings with demands for freedom were to be hurled by extreme Islamists, this struggle for freedom and human rights could be at risk. The women's perspective is central to our human rights policy. But we must also not forget the demand for respect for other fundamental rights, which are also very topical, unfortunately, in just Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is among the worst in the world when it comes to violations of religious freedom. From the Christian People's Party we see it as of course that Norway must consistently address human rights in general, and not least women's rights in all forums where the situation in Saudi Arabia and similar Arab countries is naturally a topic. Of course, this is the case in the UN organisation UN Women, where both Norway and Saudi Arabia are now centrally located. However, this also applies in a number of other international bodies and in Norway’s direct contact with the authorities of Saudi Arabia and countries with similar challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1534	Perhaps the President shares the representative's description.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1538	As I pointed out in my follow-up questions, Saudi Arabia has a special role in the region, perhaps especially to countries like Syria and Yemen. When Saudi Arabia was the theme of the interpellation, and the UN Security Council is currently discussing a resolution condemning the violence in Syria, I actually found it unnatural to omit it and actually very natural to comment on it. Just because many commentators and editors and others point out that these women who will act next Friday represent the strongest women's uprising, the strongest women's movement in 20 years, and that the uprising that is coming has explosive power in itself to lead to some of the same turmoil and some of the same movements that have been seen in other countries in the region, there is reason to be a bit optimistic, too, sail if there is a depressing situation. If the hope of change in Egypt, in Tunisia, in all the countries of the region of North Africa and in the Middle East is to succeed, women with different backgrounds, different religious views, are fully-fledged partners around the table to discuss the future of these countries. This is one of the same situation that we have seen in relation to peace and security. I had an interpellation on UN Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security not long ago, where just many of the same things stand out. If development and peace are to be achieved in a country, women must be partners in that development. There's a lot that's changed in 100 years, but there's a lot that's actually the same thing. There are many governments and governments around the world who are depending on the reform that they have promised to implement. That means that the differences and divisions in society are getting deeper, and that also means that there is a greater inequality between women and men. There is a risk that women will remain on the sidelines of these revolutions, sailing if they were to be shoulder to shoulder with men in the Tahrir Square and elsewhere in the region. They were perhaps the ones who shouted the highest, because they felt the injustices and the lack of human rights so strongly on the body, but they also now have a risk of standing on the sideline. I'm assuming that the Foreign Minister puts up a consistent and consistent line when he speaks human rights with Saudi Arabia. It has to be the same standard no matter which country we talk to and talk about. I also of course assume that he will respond to human rights violations and to the harassment of women in connection with the action that will be Friday in a week.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1549	It's not good to give an assessment of whether this is the strongest women's uprising in a long time, but that there's an interesting development in Saudi Arabia using new technology, is certainly. At the same time, I have been impressed by discussions with Saudi representatives in slightly different environments that they also point out – if I am allowed to say so – that in many ways women in Saudi Arabia also represent the most conservative force in some of these areas, so that there are supporters to traditions, interpretations, even among women, for rules that affect women – as we see it, and so universal human rights indicate it. It only highlights the complexity of these issues in societies that are not on the path of reform in relation to what we define as reforms. But for us, it is really easy to respond to the chairman's call to be 'consistency' and 'consistency', because what provides the starting point for being both is the universal human rights and the conventions to which the countries have joined. Now the dilemma with Saudi Arabia is that they haven't joined everybody, and that they've made reservations about someone. But neither is it that makes it impossible for us to highlight our views on it. I am pleased that there is support in this Chamber for our dialogue. I understand that the representative Woldseth thinks it's even demanding, and I understand that. But I want to talk very strongly because we're doing it, because that's the way to go in order to get communication across the dividing lines that are pretty deep. We have, as I said, very much to be solved with the help of countries like Saudi Arabia, which cannot be solved with the isolation of countries like Saudi Arabia. That is why we welcome the Embassy in Oslo. We want good working conditions for our embassy in Saudi Arabia, and we generally want improved contact. A striking feature of the meeting with the Baltic Foreign Ministers yesterday and today was how human contact was highlighted as so important for what led up to the changes there 20 years ago and in the evolution after. I think there were zero Norwegian enterprises in these countries in 1990, now there are 1 000 – as an example of such a contact. Otherwise, I look forward to being one of the 1000 who will join the Facebook page that this is about, and here we are going to use the social media that makes it possible, at least on a symbolic basis, to say from both as an individual and as a representative of the government and the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1564	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1578	So this is coating, if you look at it a little bit historically. No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1596	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1612	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1630	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1648	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1667	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1685	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1703	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1721	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1739	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1757	A tax play that the Right makes, of course, tax proposals in the Stortinget. No one should have been surprised if the Right had co-existed with the Advance Party to get the property tax liquidated. It tastes at least a little bit of treasure. But what does Gundersen's representative propose? Well, he proposes to reintroduce one of the most unclear, out-of-date, unfair and not least bureaucratic criteria of Norwegian tax legislation. For what is ‘urban’? The representative Gundersen and his opinion cases in the Right and Advance Party used the term to call the property tax streetlight payment, for proximity to municipal installations in municipal centres, etc. It wasn't fair. The property tax was neither a charge nor a charge for municipal installations or services. The property tax is a tax for fiscal purposes — one and only to be part of the non-designated revenues that finance the most important welfare production in the welfare society, that is, that of the welfare municipalities. And it's the only municipality that can compare itself. It is fundamentally unfair to exempt part of the municipality's inhabitants from a tax that is not earmarked for use in any particular part of the municipality. Should the representative Gundersen think of offsetting the tax on the basis of the distance between the taxpayer’s residence and a European road, a theatre, a hospital, etc.? The representative, Gundersen, realizes the enormous bureaucracy that would have to be set up to achieve something that would just as well have to be a small accurate geographical grading of state taxes. But that's the same thing he suggests at the municipal level. As a long-standing local populace, I have experience in practicing the unclear distinction that the representative of Gundersen now wants to reintroduce. If the municipalities are smaller than the state, the bureaucratic, the outrageous and the unfair in what Gundersen wants to reintroduce is just as clear. It will, as before, create resentment for those who end up on the wrong side of it for them so meaningless tax limit the representative Gundersen wants to withdraw. The property tax is not 100 pst. socially accurate. It's not a tax scheme. The tax entrance from the real kingdom of the country shows it. But the representative, Mr Gundersen's proposal, does nothing about it. With the manner in which the municipalities show when the tax rate is determined, and with a crown-bound deduction, the social injustices are limited. Right in their care for tenants, like me, must remember that people are entitled to some precious municipal services, such as health services, when they are on the cabin, even if they do not pay taxes to the cabin municipality. In addition, the discount usually protects the homes of ordinary people against property taxes, which cabin palaces are likely to pay. So I'll finally say that the Right was just as much against the property tax as the split representative Gundersen wants to reintroduce, applicable, as they are now without.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1785	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1793	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1801	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 5, by Bente Thorsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 6, by Svein Harberg on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 7, from Svein Harberg on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 8 and 9, by Mr Thorsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 10, by Svein Harberg on behalf of the Right Amendment No. 11, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 4, from the party of progress, from the right, from the Christian party, and from the left, saying, ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian war graves are administered with the dignity of their peculiarity, and to equate them with foreign war graves.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Right and the Left, says: ‘The government asks the Government to develop different models for extending access to ash and to promote the cause of the Storting to this effect.’ Proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The government asks the Government to bring a case before the Stortinget where the municipalities themselves are given the opportunity to fix the various charges for various types of burial.’ These proposals will be put on the agenda as a matter of their own at a later meeting. There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1860	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1888	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The title of the law shall be replaced by the following: Law of Burial, cremation and burial [[gravel law]] The term ‘churchyard’ is replaced by ‘graveyard’ in the Graveyard Act and some other laws, at similar points as in the draft law under I, III and IV of Prop. [[not ‘digestion’]] 81 L [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1907	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 10 eighth paragraph shall be deleted.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e1921	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The first sentence of Section 5 shall be replaced by the following: the community of faith and life that is active on the site shall be given the opportunity to carry out weddings and other ceremonies when a new burial place is put into service.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6 shall be replaced by the following: in the case of burial in a burial site specifically designed to meet the needs of religious and life-seeking minorities, the costs shall be borne by the municipality of origin where it has not built such graves itself.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: «Article 9, fifth paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Before the competent authority takes a decision, the Social Security Council shall give its opinion on a change in the distribution of the work between the members of the pension fund to which more than one member of the pension fund has been added.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2351	The President would point out here that a typographical error has caused the second paragraph of Section 10 to fall out. it shall be replaced by the following: ‘Cremation shall take place in approved crematorium and no later than 10 working days after death.’ The proposal for a decision, together with the addition referred to by the President, is then put to the vote, but with the exception of the new third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2367	The new third sentence is then added to Section 6, second paragraph. Here Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2381	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2391	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2411	We have announced that we will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2416	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it. So let's do the voting again. The recommendation is based on the inclusion of the proposal in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2434	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the KS, is asked to draw up concrete cost estimates for the extension of the number of hours from 300 to 600 hours of training in Norwegian and social knowledge, as well as the introduction of a new supervisory system and obligation for municipalities to conduct internal control.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to provide evidence of adequate Norwegian and social skills before citizenship can be granted.’ These proposals will be put on the agenda as a matter of their own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2582	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2592	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2595	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2603	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2611	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2619	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2627	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement and the Right, tabled at the meeting of the European Parliament on 30 May 2011: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to amend laws and regulations to give both parents equal access rights.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2646	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 30 May 2011: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the laws and regulations so that it becomes up to each parent to decide how they will distribute the parental leave between themselves.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2665	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 30 May 2011: ‘The government asks it to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that both parents’ rights to parental leave are respected in the event of a broken life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2685	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 31 May 2011: ‘The government asks the government to develop a clearer feedback concept to the school manager in relation to findings and observations revealed after supervision by the supervisory authority.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2704	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 31 May 2011: ‘The government is asked to review the natural resource tax and to make it possible for municipalities to obtain income from their natural resources based on their accurate valuation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2723	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 31 May 2011: «The government asks the government to return part of the corporate tax to the municipalities.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2742	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 31 May 2011: ‘The government is asking for transitional arrangements to be made by the government in the event of the liquidation of the property tax, in order to ensure the local economy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2761	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Right at the Stortingets meeting on 31 May 2011: «The Government asks the Government to propose an amendment to Section 3 of the Law of 6 June 1975 No. 29 on property taxes to municipalities, so that property taxes can only be levied on dwellings situated in urban areas, as they were before the fiscal year 2007.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-08.ana.ud2436e2784	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
