ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e26	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e41	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre and the government councils Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Tora Aasland will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e48	I have a question for Jonas Gahr Støre. Yesterday we could hear both the Party Secretary of the Workers' Party, Raymond Johansen, and the head of the AUF, Eskil Pedersen, come with more powerful results against the Progress Party. There were allegations of right-wing populists with gruesome attitudes, there were allegations that for some reason the Progress Party abused freedom of expression when we took part in the political change of words in Norway, there were allegations that we contributed to a hateful debate, because for many years we have been putting the spotlight on the challenges of Norwegian immigration and asylum policy, and there was even an underlying claim that we almost shared the terrorist's positions of 22 July. These are serious allegations from the country's largest government party. Jonas Gahr Støre has – from time to time at least – been concerned with freedom of speech. He was somewhat more evasive in the caricature struggle, but has been considerably clearer lately. In addition, he has chaired the Workers' Party's Inclusion Committee, which presented 99 proposals, of which very few – if any – have been adopted policy, but many of the proposals made by the selection of the Støre were to be confused with those of the Progress Party. I have some questions for Gahr Støre: Is it that Norway's asylum and integration challenges have suddenly disappeared, or is it still a job to do in this field? Is it the Workers' Party that now has the power to define freedom of expression? Is it possible, according to Støre, to refer to the Progress Party in this way? And finally, does Støre agree with the characteristics of his party traps of the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e61	The President will recall that it is Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre who is present and is given the opportunity to respond to foreign policy implications in the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e67	This was a contrasting article. I want to be the first to defend the fundamental position of freedom of expression in our country, in our democracy in general, and in the time we live in now, especially. If you're a defender of freedom of speech, we need to have a debate on what happened in July, we need to have a debate on all sides of it in an open way, and it can sometimes hurt. I have not heard anything from the two people the representative Jensen mentions, which I believe falls outside a sun-clear freedom of expression to problematize and put the search light on relationships around what happened there. They get, with respect, to report, even argue with the representative Jensen if she so wishes. No one has held the Progress Party responsible for the terrible thing that happened. No one, I confess, has made a point that the assumed culprit until a few years before was a member of that party. What has been highlighted is the responsibility we have for the attitudes we take when we feel something about important issues in society – including diverse Norway, including integration policy. Let me answer very briefly. Has everything been done with regard to asylum and integration policy in Norway? No, no, no. Has there been major progress in the management of asylum policy? Yes. Do we have a good starting point for good integration policies in Norway? I mean that too. Does the Workers' Party have the power of definition in this question? Of course not, the power of definition lies in the wide diversity of opinions and attitudes. But I believe that the Progress Party should look through – as the representative Jensen, I understand, has said – part of the track, part of the statements that have been made in this debate, among others. about group thinking and quotes as ‘all Muslims are not terrorists, but all terrorists are Muslims’. That statement was brought forward again after July 22nd and is an example of attitudes that I believe the Progress Party must tolerate taking criticism of. It is part of the democratic change of words that the two leading representatives of the Workers' Party made and that they also made yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e78	Gahr Støre fails to answer the questions concerning his own party's participation in this debate. I fully agree that we should turn all the stones and have a broad debate on how to deal with crime. Anyone who commits criminal acts in Norway must be punished for it and must pay for it. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, in a situation of considerable challenges, we are still in the policy that the Labour Party must take responsibility for over the last 20–30–40 years as regards the development of Norwegian asylum and immigration policies. Gahr Støre himself headed for it through the Integrating Committee, which I see has not succeeded so far in getting special impact on the government, it is possible it was an attempt at double communication. However, I repeat my question: Is Gahr Støre in agreement with his party traps, namely the party secretary and the AUF leader, in the way they have now chosen to describe the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e83	I repeat that they themselves have to take the debate with Siv Jensen. I haven't heard all they said. Essentially, I think they had a very good basis for what I have read and been reported. But here we see again, and I allow myself to say that, a mixture of many relationships. It is as if the Progress Party is the victim of the debate we have after 22 July – very strange. It is as if the issue of what happened in July is mixed up with the fact that we still have significant challenges in integration policy. It's a problematic combination of arguments, which would almost mean that because we have those problems, we can explain what happened on July 22nd. Then we stumble near the ends that I think it tastes suspicious of. Yes, we have challenges. Many of the proposals we adopted at the National Labour Party meeting are being followed up in government policy, and will be further worked on. These are policies that need to be shaped over a longer period of time. But I think it is strange that we should be strong supporters of freedom of expression, while the Progress Party is far ahead and says that they are now being treated unfairly in the open change of words that democracy Norway has.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e92	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e95	Let me first just make it clear that there is no one trying to play victim here. If there's anyone who has played the victim after July 22, it's to those degrees of the Workers' Party, and so should they, because they were one of the great victims. And that is what the Labour Party has now obviously put on a strategy – to continue this debate by attacking the Progress Party. We shall stand up and take this debate, but I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also been outside and considered some of the representatives of the Progress Party to be hateful and malicious. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs for help: if words lead to action, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also suggested, is it such that words from the Advance Party can lead to action, but not words from the Workers' Party – when the Workers' Party talks about Islam, when the Workers' Party calls Muslim leaders dark men, when the Workers' Party is opposed to burka? Or, when the Workers' Party says that the Advance Party is to be combated by all means, what means is that to be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e102	This post confirms what I'm saying, here it's as if it's the Progress Party that is the victim of the democratic change of words after July 22. And I have to say, from this pulpit, that I react to the representative saying that the Workers' Party has played the victim after July 22. The working party was a victim on July 22nd. The Jewel of the Workers' Party, the youth, was attacked defenceless. More victims actually don't have to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e113	President, so did I.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e119	Then I would say that we can all – and should all – still evaluate the words we use, and be open to criticism if it can be misunderstood. A statement that says that not all Muslims are terrorists, but all terrorists are Muslims, to me, is a hateful statement, for that group thinks, and it creates associations that are very critical. If we were to say things that could be in that category, we should be able to take that criticism openly. It's talking about people like dark people have been doing in the Norwegian social debate for a long time. Sometimes it's justified, sometimes it's not justified. If that is not justified, we must be able to criticise it. We must be able to take that up and exchange normal opinions on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e124	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e127	I have the starting point that I believe everyone in this Chamber has a desire to combat the extremist thinking and the environments that gave a violent expression on July 22. Then my question becomes Gahr Støre: how can we do the best? Is it by making a pingpong discussion in Norwegian policy on responsibility for opinions, or is it by actually going to the origin and justification of extreme opinions and arguing against them? The danger if we do this for another pingpong discussion in Norwegian politics is that we do not jeopardize and take the attention away from the really heavy extreme attitudes – the attitudes that thus lead to someone finally killing each other. Then my question to Gahr Støre: What is the government's strategy to not make this the pingpong of the democratic arena, but actually a struggle against extremism?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e134	The term 'pingpong debate' in Norwegian democracy is a little unfamiliar to me, so I don't know what that means. But I have a sense of what was said after July 22nd, that the democratic parties in Norway have more in common between themselves than any of them have to the extreme violence environments outside. Discussing with the violence environment outside is a difficult exercise when we know that much of this is happening in hard-to-reach online communities. I think it is part of the common good in democracy that all parties in this Chamber – and I have been very clear that the Progress Party is of course among them – must be clear in its normative message towards those environments that may have extreme attitudes. It's one strategy. The second strategy is to fence around the democratic change of words between us – call it pingpong. However, it is clear that the way in which we deal with and do not deal with societal challenges gives ground for reaction outside the parliamentary and democratic framework. So there's an interaction between the two, but the debate here in this room and between parties is an important part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e143	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e146	I feel that something is about to break up here. One of the great things after the deep tragedy was our common ability to stand together – not on all opinions, not on all explanations, but on the will to look forward, to turn hatred and reversing to love and openness. We have to take care of that. That doesn't mean we're not going to discuss opinions, and I guess I have to say that those of us who sometimes stand for strong opinions, also have to endure strong characteristics. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has an international perspective on this: in the light of the experience of other countries after deep national tragedies such as this, and in the light of the experience we have had, how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that we can best take care of the lessons we have with us from July 22, so that we do not end up in a trenche discussion with stamps on each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e153	I think a lot of people at home and out noticed that Norway was dating in the weeks after July 22nd. Then the differences were put aside, and we agreed on those who needed it. I think it was a very important way – and a mature way – of Norwegian democracy that we returned to democracy. We made local elections, and now we're back in the democratic change of words. I believe it is an important principle when the Prime Minister says more transparency, more democracy, that we take the democratic debates, and that we do not overshadow the difficult issues, but that we do so in a respectful way. So far, I think we've made it. That it's going to be painful in some areas, that we're going to deal with difficult issues, that it might get wrong, I think we have to wait. But then I also think that our society is so mature that we can get back up if we make mistakes, and that we can be open to reconsider what we might have said – after July 22nd, but also before July 22nd. There are things we don't experience so much in other countries that have experienced that kind of disaster, where the trenches get very deep. I still believe that we will do it in our country, and that the time until now has shown that we are on the right course.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e160	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e163	I have a question for Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre. We see that the situation in Egypt is dramatic. Violence increases and has increased dramatically over the weekend. Several dozen demonstrators are killed, as many as 30. We know that approx. 1,800 demonstrators are wounded, more are to be arrested and imprisoned without law and judgment, and they are tortured. Amnesty says very clearly that the human rights situation is worse now than under the Mubarak regime. The climate of rights is poor, it's getting worse, and many people ask themselves if it's possible to hold free and confident elections as early as Monday next week. The immediate situation is explosive, and the path to an even deeper spiral of violence and repression is short. The positive development we saw in the spring part, where the upheavals were positive for most, seems to have only been the first act in a much larger picture, and that process is now at risk. Given also Egypt’s very important position in the region – every third Arab is an Egyptian, the country is large and has a great signal effect on other countries in the region – it is important that what happens in Egypt is done in a good way in the future. At the same time, we see that the protests that are now taking place in the Tahrir place are of a slightly different character than those that were there in our place. Observers believe that the middle class is not present, but that it is the more political and religious conservative forces that have now occupied the arena. Another challenge, of course, is that Egypt is a society with a very low average age of 24 years, about 50 pst. Of the people living under $2 a day, and where you have illiteracy in half of the population. In addition, they have said that they do not want any special help from the outside. In this context, how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs now assess the situation in Egypt and what Norway and other countries can do to remedy it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e174	At first I think the representative Eriksen Soreide gave a good description in a short time of the complex situation that is in Egypt. I do not want to repeat it as it was precisely described. My reflection on this, and what I want to focus on, is that we have to wait for this to take time. Use as an example how long it took after the fall of the Berlin Wall for the communities that then entered a great transition. Those transitions have not yet been completed on the Western Balkans, and that is 20 years ago. Now we're just a few months after Mubarak fell. That's the first observation, and here it's going to be the ups and downs. We're going to notice the downs, especially because the economic side of this is important. He who drives a taxi with tourists in Cairo, doesn't have a job, because it's not tourists. Hundreds of thousands of guest workers have come home from Libya, so the economy is struggling. That was also the starting point for the protests that killed Mubarak. I think Egypt is facing a very difficult balance here. On the one hand, the structure of this country is largely built around the army. The army is the army of the people. It's now being tested. The army was on the side of the people in February. Now the army is exposed. The second is: How does the attitude of the Egyptians appear? Can they make choices? Can they implement meaningful positions options, i.e. that those who win elections actually get power as well? Or is it, in fact, that the military is in power? As a talking example: He who is today Egypt’s strong man was the Minister of Defence under Mubarak. What can we do? I think it's important that we are very clear about what we're saying, and that we say and point out week by week what we see. The second is that we continue to offer our experience, but we can't apply our experience, and as the representative says, the Egyptians are good for it. The third is that we keep regional organisations engaged – the Arab League, the African Union – that become important organisations around these countries and that are to try to create democracy. Egypt is the nucleus, and one third of the Arabs live in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e185	It is also quite right that those who are now standing in the Tahrir place feel in many ways that the revolution has been hurled, and that they still see Mubarak's hand ruling the country. We have been positive that the government has invested extra money into human rights and democracy in the region. From the right-hand side, we've added another 100 million. kr because we believe it is important in all possible ways to support the development that must take place, both in Egypt and in other countries of the region now. In this context, I would like to mention in particular three concrete things that several other countries have gone in and supported: one is indebted. The second is the entrepreneurship fund to relaunch the economy – which the Minister for Foreign Affairs may well mention is the biggest problem – and not least support for independent civil societies. We met in the committee with several, completely new political parties when we were in Cairo in May. It was an exciting experience, and it's a lot of positive that can happen, but that development has to be drawn in the right direction. Is there any Norway that can support measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e195	The stylist in Tahrir Square in February was 23 years old, it's said. There's another grouping that's there now, and the analysis of it is important. So even if there's 100,000 there, there's 60 million people in Egypt, and how the Egyptians think and think, it's hard to get a clear picture of. The measures referred to by the representative are good. What I want to point out is that transfers of funds to this country should be carefully considered in the context of corruption and control procedures, so that both debt and investment can be implemented in a way that actually benefits the people. We are committed to thinking from below: civil society support, support for knowledge environments and support for fragile civil organisations, who are trying to form the counter-power we know is important in this kind of society. We do that directly to some organisations and also in cooperation with established environments from the outside that have experience in Egypt. It's important that much of this is built from the bottom, so we have to go step by step.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e204	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and this will be the occasion – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e207	The situation in Egypt goes from bad to worse. I think it's a pretty good analysis the Foreign Minister here gave, that this is going to take time, while the Foreign Minister stressed that we must be clear in our message. The international community has been waiting. It's been more than a year since the revolts started, and Mubarak left on February 11th this year. So during this period, 12,000 civilian Egyptians have been sent to the military court, and 13 have been sentenced to death. Naturally, the international community does not want to conflict either with the military regime that was deployed by the people or with the civilian population. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How does Norway coordinate its support in both words, money and action, internationally, so that this support can be strengthened and impacted?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e216	The keyword for the representative Kristiansen is important – how we coordinate – because here I think it is important to remember that Norway’s voice, like Norway alone, has limited value. Therefore, a key strategy in this area, which is about values, directions, societies, human rights and minorities, has been to follow the multilateral tracks: clear messages through the UN, clear messages through the UN Human Rights Council and to work hard against regional organisations. I mentioned in the debate we had in the Chamber yesterday that the United Nations has now adopted a resolution for human rights defenders, such as the United Nations. establishes the principle of peaceful demonstrations. It does not create peaceful demonstrations overnight, but it creates a counterweight for those who will defeat peaceful demonstrations. Then I will focus on an area that we are going to prioritise in the future, and that is the position of minorities, and in particular the position of Christians – not only in Egypt, but in the Arab world, where these minorities go from a situation where they have been exposed to extra exposure. It concerns the Copts in Egypt, it is a relatively large minority, but also smaller Christian minorities in the Arab world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e225	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e228	After Mubarak's fall, we have had the hope that Egypt would be more like Turkey than Iran and Saudi Arabia. But now we also see a worrying development in Turkey, another country – which has a great signal effect. Sixty-three journalists are in prison. An Internet filter similar to that in China was recently launched and the EU also reports a worrying development of freedom of expression. Is this something that concerns the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and is there something Norway is pursuing in its dialogue with Turkey?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e235	First, let me just say that there are interesting parallels to compare Egypt with Turkey with Iran. Often they just keep the comparisons going because the story is so different. Some may also refer to Indonesia, and then development takes its own path. I think Egypt is going to be Egypt, with special characteristics. With regard to the situation in Turkey, it is first of all very positive to say about that country over time. It's about the country's economy, development, education, democracy's implementation of elections, etc. But there is also reason to be vigilant in some developments, as the representative Höglund describes. We'll go with that. I believe an important strategy for us is to address it through the commitments Turkey has in an organisation of which we are both members, namely the Council of Europe. There are the fundamental conventions for fundamental European human rights for which they are also responsible in terms of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, etc. We follow it there, and we take it into account in the discussions we have with Turkey at political level, and also in the ongoing contacts at diplomatic level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e242	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e245	The Arab spring gets the result of a harvest, it looks like in many areas. I would like to mention a country that has not yet been involved in the discussion, Libya, where Norway can play a special role precisely with our expertise in natural resources, which makes it possible, perhaps in a special way, to contribute to the country's development in terms of human rights. My specific question is: have you received enquiries from the Libyan authorities, possibly taking initiatives from the Norwegian side, so that Norway, with the expertise we have in a particular field, can also have a positive impact in other areas of the development of a new Libyan society?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e254	The answer to both questions is yes. What I am pleased about is that our initiative to meet Libya in this area is an answer to a Libyan question. One might well not say that Libya had legislation on oil development and oil wealth management under Gaddafi. It was a system, but it was a system that was corrupt and belonged to another world. We have noted the interest of the Libyan Transitional Council and now the coming Libyan government to learn from what is from Norwegian experience. We're clear that they can't be copied, but you can learn from them, and we're willing to share. We now want to make available our expertise in this area in a follow-up to the oil for the development experience we have with many countries, and clear resources to do this with Libya. There have already been detailed contacts on this, and it will also be in connection with the parts of Norwegian business that have been and will continue to be in Libya on the energy side. So this we'll follow up in the weeks and months that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e263	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e267	I also have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am still in the Middle East. There are clear indications that the situation in Egypt, in particular, following the fall of President Mubarak, has led to a severe deterioration in the situation of minorities in general and of the Christian minority in particular. In a number of countries in the Middle East, there has traditionally been a significant Christian minority. Many of the oldest Christian churches are just in this area, naturally, but we are seeing a development in countries like Iraq, Iran, the Palestinian region and now Egypt, where the proportion of the population who are Christians is falling sharply. The refugees from the area, or they are subjected to regular persecution and executions. In Egypt it has been confirmed from various sources that there has been an increase in Islamic attacks on Coptic Christian villages, their properties, their religious centers, their churches, and their priests. Egypt's ID card system is used discriminatoryly against those who do not belong to the approved Muslim religion. Extra evil is the fact that the military forces that were supposed to protect people seemed to share in attacks on Christians earlier in the harvest. There may be indications that some of the most intolerant Islamists, the so-called salafists, have a dangerous influence. If such groups gain greater power in Egypt, its religious minorities, not least millions of Coptic Christians, can be subjected to increasing harassment and attacks. Professor Unni Wikan, who is an expert on Egypt, calls what is happening a tremendous deterioration, and she fears an extensive emigration of Coptic Christians from Egypt – according to statements she gave to the Evening Post last Sunday. From the Christian People's Party we have addressed this in several ways with the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the last few years, and I would like to ask: what is he doing about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e282	Again, I believe that this is a precise and alarming situational description that is correct – unfortunately. This is a serious problem. There have been questions about this to me over the last few years, and I have also tried to answer it very thoroughly by saying that it is a priority for us to follow up the position of minorities, where Christians stand in a special position in the Arab world. The situation in Egypt is complex at the same time. Copters and Muslims stood side by side in Tahrir Square. We received a delegation of young leaders from that place. It was representatives of the Muslim brothers – young people – and it was Christians who for the first time were on a trip together and found out what they had in common, and one could get the impression that there was a potential here. Who is behind these gangs that attack Christian churches in Egypt is also a slightly unclear theme. Is the purpose of organised gangs engaged in provocation? Are those salafists? The sum of it is insecurity for the minorities and it cannot be accepted. That's why I think we have to attack this in two ways. One is in our direct relationship with Egypt, in our contacts with Egyptian leaders, saying that the standard against which democratic Egypt will be measured is based on respect for minorities. It is a paradox that minorities in some of these countries have had a more protected situation under the dictator than under democracy. The next country out is Syria, where there are some of the same issues. The other area we need to be very clear is left in the multilateral forums. It is to address the issue of religious freedom as a fundamental human right, in the Human Rights Council, in the UN and in regional forums. It's updating and clarifying the norms for this. I can here inform you that we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will define this as a separate project in the future – with a particular focus on the Christian minorities in the countries that the representative mentioned, but also in several countries in this region, and also working with Norwegian environments with knowledge in this area to get a reporting system that we can use for follow-up with up-to-date information.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e293	The foreign minister now replied, is a very happy news, because we have long called for a systematic and targeted strategy. I assume that when a project is established based on the resources we have here in Norway, and with the network these organisations have across the world, there will be at the bottom of it a strategy anchored in our commitments to fight for freedom of belief and other human rights. I just want to say that this is an initiative that we want to welcome. The Foreign Affairs Committee had the opportunity to meet religious leaders, both Muslim and Christian, among others. the Coptic pope, when we were in Egypt earlier this year, and it is clear that the contact that the Norwegian Embassy and Norwegian diplomatic staff also have with different environments, both religious and human rights, in these countries is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e300	That's why I'm also trying to meet these on my travels – to make it visible to the host that we care about it. It is – I was saying – a method we have used in former Eastern Europe, where we made visible to the leaders who it was we thought it was important to be concerned about. I look forward to coming back to Stortinget and briefing on how we will organise this work, which is not new, because we have had a wide network of contacts. We've had some contacts with church environments in Norway lately to get their experience. But we now want to systematize it in the way we work, and the way we follow up. I believe that this is an important area – the minorities themselves, but also the principle of minority protection. Then I also shift my focus to another area that is women's position in the legislation of these countries. When creating new constitutions and new detailed legislation, we see a disturbing tendency for women's equal rights to be pushed aside, as well as the paradoxical situation in which women can get worse protection, worse protection than they actually had before. We have to deal with this bilaterally and in the multilateral bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e307	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e310	I would also like to say that I am very pleased with the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's a paradox: we've had two or three big torch trains in this town for the past couple of weeks. Something has received more attention than anything else. I notice that torch trains for fur animals' rights were duly included in various news broadcasts, while the torch train for the Christians who are being persecuted for their faith was something that was overlooked in silence in the Norwegian public. So thank the Foreign Minister for the positive answer he has given. It's actually like in the Middle East, which had 20 pst. Christians 100 years ago, you're now down to 5 pst. Christians to a great extent because of persecution. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about the multilateral forums, my question is related to the project he mentioned: How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel that what Norway is addressing is being met by the relevant national authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e319	The advantage of including it in the multilateral bodies is that there is a framework to which all countries have joined. So those who have an aberrant practice at home have more difficulty arguing it off in the multilateral forums. It is a force, for in this way we can also be driven by resolutions and principles of freedom of religion as a central human right to which the countries have joined. The weakness of this, of course, is that the translation of what they adopt back into the countries of central multilateral bodies can fail. But we have to start somewhere. I believe that there are standards and standards to which countries have joined and to which they can be held responsible at hearings and through special rapporteurs who can go out and in, which, as we say in English, name and shame, can, in other words, hang out those who do not follow up on what they have undertaken to do, is a method of working. As long as this is anchored in a universal human rights scheme to which all countries have joined, we have a very good starting point for keeping the country accountable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e324	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e327	The representative on the high turn takes up a very serious situation. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs assess the possibility of influence and support by the West, including Norway, for example? women and Christian minorities in the Middle East and the promotion of universal human rights, given that the West is largely also synonymous with Christian nations?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e332	It is a fact that the West as a group has a mixed reputation in these countries, not only because they are considered as Christian countries, but also because of history. We have had interesting debates on this in this Chamber last year. That means that we must approach this not because we are the West, or because we are countries with a Christian majority population, but because we anchor it in the universal human rights to which all countries have joined. It's not because we're the West, or because we're from countries that provide assistance, that we're going to swing positions here. It's because we can tie countries in to what principles they expect when they're part of the international community. Then we have to have access to the central groups. That's one of the reasons why I think we should speak clearly to the Muslim brothers as an organization – there is a heavy organization in Egypt, among other things. – to say what is expected of them for them to be considered a valid organisation in a hopefully valid democracy, Egypt.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e339	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e343	One of the most hopeful moments when we met the same group that the Foreign Minister met was when they told us about how Christians aroused Muslims to prayer in the Tahrir place earlier in the spring, and that it was a sign of incarceration. It's quite obvious that a society's ability to handle and protect minorities is a very good signal of what kind of state and what kind of society we're dealing with. We recently had a meeting with this year's Raftopris winners, who work for the rights of sexual minorities in Uganda, a job that is deadly in every way. The trend is that minorities, whether religious or otherwise, are blamed for things that go wrong in the country. It's an increasing effect that we can also notice especially in Egypt, where the Cops, especially, are very vulnerable. Churches are burned down, Copts are killed, and society is incapable of protecting them. The question is, can we use some of the knowledge we have in particular in interreligious dialogue to get a popular protection of, among other things. religious minorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e354	I think we can use those experiences. I think we should again be careful to say that we can almost only take them into a large country like Egypt, but we can, through the contacts we have, engage groups in Egypt for conversations and dialogue, which can enable them to continue working with. That is what I think we have learned now through the approach that when we talk to them, it is also to target what we expect of them, if they become a valid democracy. There is a tendency that very many of the conflicts in Egypt, conflicts that do not necessarily have a religious basis, are put into a religious perspective. But it's a dangerous development. We also see this in Europe today – on the point that minorities are blamed. Europe has no glorious history here, and it is about being vigilant in the current situation of Europe. Through inter-religious dialogue, Norway has got a contact network in these countries that I think few countries have, and it is a strength we will use when we are now developing the project I have mentioned earlier today, for the protection of minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e363	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e366	Not surprisingly, the Left has a question for the Minister of Research. In this room, under the last governments, a number of bold, long-term and courageous decisions have been made to ensure that research has been prioritised over time and has been given a long-term perspective – by the Jon Lilletun Research Fund, from the demands for recruitment positions in research and the percentage of time-laging goals for how much research we should have in Norway, for Kristin Clemet's implementation of the gift enhancement scheme and what we are doing with SkattenFUNN, which she is transforming into a new right law. Much of this has worked well, yes actually so well that they should have expanded, and many of the goals have been achieved. Some of us really want to have their own research minister as a new part of this, have their own minister who is just going to have the task of devising new arrangements to secure research and devise new opportunities to ensure that we are going to bet on research in the future. What the Minister of Research has done is put down Jon Lilletun's research fund, stop introducing new scholarship positions, put down Kristin Clemet's gift enhancement scheme and do not extend the tax FUNN systems, which we see have worked so well. What I really want to say when we got our own state council in the field is that it wasn't the Left's goal that we should put down all this that ensured long-term research. We had actually believed that a research minister would be investing in research, not shutting down research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e377	It was a sad description by the representative Skei Grande, of both my responsibility and the government's commitment to research. If there's something this government has done, it's to bet on research, and the fact that you have your own research minister who can be a voter in the government on that bet, I think has been an advantage. What has been done has also been some bold measures, and not everyone likes bold measures; it is a bit about the direction. You have to, for example, realize that the research fund for Lilletun – for which I had great respect, and which was also a personal friend, and I have great sympathy for what he did – no longer worked because it was built on a structure that depended on the interest rates in the market. We have taken a step forward in Lilletun's intention and idea, we can get back to the discussion on this in connection with the state budget. What I have done on behalf of the government in this matter is to save Norwegian research from a descent that would be quite significant if we had continued without doing anything. The saving we have done is about ensuring the long-term and fundamental, secured the research infrastructure, being given permanent posts on the state budget, which also guarantees price and salary adjustments, which we have not had in the research fund before. These have been good actions that contribute to safe research. In addition, Norway has about the world's highest public consumption of research, and we have increased our research effort by over 50 pst. Since we started. I cannot believe and understand that this should be as deplorable as the representative of the Skei Grande describes. So we have strengthened research. My role in this, of course, has been to promote this voice – both internally in the government and externally in the discussions we have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e392	You have a strange view of recovery, if you first push people outside the dot, then take them two heels further down the cliff, and then you have saved them from the fall. It's actually this government that's pushed the Research Fund out of nowhere. There is no party that has granted less to the Research Fund at any budgetary direction. Of course, the lack of funding for the Research Fund over time means that the Research Fund receives too little money, which causes problems in terms of interest rates. It is not interest that has destroyed the Research Fund, it is actually the government's priorities. This week NIFU provided figures showing that Norway is now the only country in the Nordic region that does not reach the target of 3pst. Yeah, we've actually given up fixing time when we're going there once. Finland is at 3.9 pst., Sweden at 3.4 pst., Denmark and Iceland at 3.1 pst. and Norway at 1.7 pst. – 1.7 pst.Oh, my God! Nevertheless, the government is putting down all the tools that make it possible for us to achieve that goal by getting business to join the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e401	It sounds like Skei Grande thinks the government will hurt the research. Of course, that's not the case. The government wants research, and the government wants to secure research with the daring grip we take – yes, that arouses discussion, because it's something else than what we've done before. But the reason why we do that is because we want to secure the research. In that case, it is better to rely on a fixed system of basic research on infrastructure to be established by important decisions in the Stortinget. In any case, the amounts entered into a research fund must be adopted in accordance with the model that Trine Skei Grande clearly wants to continue. But I have noticed that the opposition parties have also recognised that the fund structure was not good enough to ensure the long-termity of research, and that the opposition has even made a joint proposal on how to do this. We'll get back to that. In the case of the 3 pst. goal, it's been a long time since we stopped governing after that. It'll be like ruling after something that goes up and down all the time, and we can't be dependent on a gross domestic product that keeps changing. So we're going to go after other targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e412	The President would point out that it is at least important that one governs after the goal that the post is finished when the clock shows zero. Four follow-up questions are raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e417	It's nice to have the Council of State standing. My question is specifically about the gift-enhancing scheme mentioned by the representative Skei Grande. Governments have stated that it is uncertain whether the gift-enhancing scheme will help to increase the gifts of private donors to research. I don't quite understand this. Since 2006, private individuals, enterprises and foundations have given about 10 % of the total population. Bn. 1,3 kr for research by various public institutions, and the gifts have led to a peak of 300 million. kr – so this scheme works. My question to the Council of State must be: Is it only ideological reasons — the private entry — that make the Council of State put an end to this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e426	Of course, these are not ideological reasons. We think this has been an exciting measure, but it is true that it has not worked as intended. The most important reason why this is proposed for withdrawal from the government budget next year is the economic situation in which the government is located. Under tight framework conditions, from the research side, we have prioritised Free Project Support and other important research actions rather than continuing the gift-enhancing scheme. I would like to admit that it can be discussed how successful it is and how well it has taken, but there are clear indications that it could have made better. But in the tight situation we are in, we have therefore chosen to give priority to important research activities, such as: One hundred million. kr extra for Free project support. This is something the research community has asked for and wanted, and we have always had an imbalance between what is the framework research and the free project support – so here we have done a clear priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e433	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e437	It's always nice to discuss how much money you spend. I agree more with the representative of the Skei Grande than with the Council of State. The Research Council has just looked at how to spend money now, and I will allow myself to mention, among other things. the following: In the case of physiology, Norway could have played a more dominant role if small and geographically separated groups were merged. In the case of clinical research: the formation of major research groups has been a success factor, but there is still a need for increased research cooperation and more competition for funding at national level. In the case of psychology, the common denominator for weak environments is that they are small, with little or no cooperation with other groups. In terms of health in general: a greater proportion of funding should have been made at national level, and there should have been reductions in the thematic research programmes. I am not going to say that those who have made this have read the alternative budget of the Progress Party. But in what way will the Council of State follow this up, which can ensure better use of research funds in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e454	These are evaluations that are very useful in providing the necessary guidance signals for research. I fully agree with the representative that we have some challenges with regard to perhaps some of the small and vulnerable environments — including some of the research fields that are young and new and that have not established themselves as strongly as for example. Nursing science, compared to some other medical research. My grip on this is that I have started important processes for collaboration, division of labour and professional concentration, including in the field of research. Here it is necessary to cooperate more. At the same time, we have expanded the competitive area called Free Project Support, so we try to strike a good balance between both inspiring competition for the free project resources and stimulating cooperation and division of labour where it is necessary to strengthen the professional base. I believe in such processes. I think that is the way we in Norway can promote good research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e461	Henning Warloe – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e464	I want to go back to the gift enhancement system. If the budgets are tight, it must be great that others will contribute. So we have had private donors through this scheme that have contributed 1.3 billion. kr in the last five years for important research. One of the most advanced areas has been cancer research. Now these scientists are at risk of losing the funds they've been given in recent years. The donors may actually disappear when the state acts the way the state does, saying that this is not so important. So what will the Minister of Research do with the researchers who can now stand without money?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e473	It is tempting to quote one of the donors as when he was confronted with the government wanting to remove this gift enhancement scheme, said the following: then we just have to give more. There is absolutely no notice to the donors that they should not continue to give. It's basic research, relatively narrow basic research, that's what this system is about. Of course, we want people to give. It was just to be lacking that we don't inspire and invite people with money to spend their money on research. But there are two important reasons why we have this proposal: one is the consideration of tight budgets, a tightness that means that research must also be involved and take part in it. That's 60 million. kr, so it's not big in a 25-billion research budget. kr. The second is that we're actually not sure if the scheme has taken place, because here it's about an incentive that goes to the recipient of the gift, not to the donor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e480	Dagrun Eriksen - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e483	When the Council of State Lilletun launched the Research Fund, it was because it was a strong experience that it was incredibly difficult to prioritize research in the annual budgets when it was to be set up against kindergarten, school and nursing homes. After that fund came, the Ministry of Finance was frustrated because there was money that was not received, that was not given to the sewer and that was not part of the common pot in the same way. Since then, the Ministry of Finance has repeatedly tried to change the protection of the research money that Lilletun received at the time. How does the Council of State think it is possible in times of recession, in difficult economic times, to give priority to research when the protection provided by the Fund is no longer available?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e490	I can assure you that the establishment of the fund in its time also created great enthusiasm in all political parties, including my party. We've been for that arrangement, and it's done a lot of good with research. But everyone knew that there was an inherent weakness in the one that would arise after ten years, based on some of the most important and largest deposits. We've had deposits all the time at different interest rates, but here you depended on how high the interest rate was when you were going to convert these loans. It's a complicated mechanism, but the sum total: The most important thing for us was to secure research as well as Lilletun and the government at the time secured the research through the fund. This is about approx. 17 pst. of all research. So it's a small part, but it's an important part. It's basic, long-term research, and it's funding research infrastructure. We have now secured this through political decisions in Stortinget. I do not know if the representative Eriksen has any confidence that the political decisions of the Stortinget have hold. But I trust it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e497	Then we go to the next main question. It's going to be today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e500	The last ones are going to be the first ones, I guess that's called. I want to go back to the Minister of Research and ask her a question. We know that it is important for a country to invest in new knowledge. Even if things are going well today, we need new knowledge to meet the challenges tomorrow. We also see that other countries with major economic problems are able to invest in research. The British Finance Minister said when he put out a budget with cuts across almost the whole line, that it was important to protect the research budget, because there were investments that were going to get the country out of the crisis. Most countries have a 3pst. target, i.e. at 3 pst. of gross domestic product shall be used to develop new knowledge. Norway also has this objective. The government's Soria Moria statement of 2005 said that this goal was to be achieved in 2010, but that was not the case. The 2009 Soria Moria II Declaration states that the objective is firm, but it does not say when it is to be achieved. For the time being, Norway is the worst in the Nordic region. While all the other Nordic countries have achieved their targets, Norway has not done so. We're actually just a little over halfway to the goal. So my question to the Council of State becomes whether she really has faith in this goal, for her own Secretary of State has actually written a few places that it is both a pointless goal and an idiotic goal. Does the Council of State agree with this, or does she still hold on to this goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e513	First of all, I want to say that the goal is divided into two – two pst. of the 3 pst. is the business to provide, and 1 pst. the State shall provide for it. With us, there's a lot to do for business, to say it like that. That's the main reason we're different from the other countries. What we're all saying about this goal is that it's very hard to control. Our gross domestic product is not entirely like the gross domestic product of other countries. When, for example: is war in the world, it's bad for research because then the percentage is low. When there is a financial crisis, it is good for research because then you get a low GDP and thus a high research share. What we're doing is directing research for research policy objectives, and then we've actually gotten quite a lot. We've had a growth in research since 2005 at 50 pst. And what has this done? Well, there has been a better knowledge of climate, an effort for climate research, an increased support for what we call curiosity-driven research, a great deal of provision for scientific equipment, and it has gone to the foundation of our universities and colleges in order to provide students with the best education in all disciplines and fields. So this research benefits society, and it's important for the country's research efforts. I believe that the vast majority of countries now with the 3 p.m. target – which we still have quite rightly – have gone beyond an annual celebration of that target. We have it as a long-term goal, but it's not the way we run the research. There are many other ways to measure research efforts that are more important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e525	It may be that many other countries do not have to govern when they are going to achieve this goal, because they have actually achieved the goal already. However, the government has obviously not intended Norway to do so. I think I can almost say that if the government sits for 10–15 years, it will still not achieve the goal – at least not at the rate that the research budgets have reached. Right now there's no growth, right now it's still standing. It's been quiet this year, and it'll stand still until next year, if we look at the real growth. I think the Council of State should be honest when she talks about a budget having increased by 50 pst. in a few years, and say that the real growth is about. half that the real growth in all budgets has been at that level, at least, and that research has thus lost ground in government budgets. The Council of State for Research has not been a budget winner, but a budget paper in the last few years – so she could be so honest that she admits it. So, when business research is the big challenge, what does the government do to boost business research?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e534	Research is one of the winners of the government. Then I fully agree that real growth is at 27 p.m., but it is also a significantly higher real growth than many other areas have received in the budgets. So there's no doubt that we've reached a high level of research. We keep that level, but we're actually concerned about what we're researching, what the quality of research is, and that our research is also an important contribution to international research. The most important thing we can do to achieve the 3pst. goal is that the government makes sure that the state's share is one percent that's our share. We're pretty close. And then we have some way to go about the business 2 pst. And then there's a lot of ways to stimulate it. I choose to believe that one thing is the economic incentives, but that business itself realizes the importance of acquiring new knowledge in order to be more offensive in a market with demanding customers. I think that Warloe and I can agree that maybe there should have been more thinking about this from the business side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e541	Two follow-up questions are raised – first the representative Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e544	Governments were concerned about the need to increase the contribution from non-public sources. This was also a subject for debate in the Research Council yesterday, and I believe that to the extent that it agrees. When one then wants people other than the public to increase their efforts, I'm a little surprised when the Council of State starts talking about the research as the winner of the state budget. So now, a loss of long-termity has been made by shutting down the Research Fund – one that will take it over the annual budget – and the gift-enhancing mechanism has been removed. How does the Council of State think that, in order to use her own words, these measures inspire and stimulate business, organisations and private individuals to step up their efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e551	As far as I have registered, the NHO has applauded our conversion of the Research Fund. I also thought that the NHO – which I thought represented business – understood how these mechanisms worked, and that they actually realized that we were here facing a situation where it was absolutely necessary to do something, just to ensure the long-termity of research. That's what the government is doing. We ensure the long-termity of research, which must also be a signal for business. But I share the representative's concern that business is not researching enough. I don't think, as I said, that it only has financial arrangements to do, we have the TaxFUNN, we have a nutrition doctorate, and we have a public effort that gives a good dragon help, also for business. But I should have liked to see that we had made business research even more, so let's then maybe form a small alliance to be able to motivate and stimulate business for more research. There's a need!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e556	Tord Lien – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e559	We might have done more research on social economy, and at least we would have been able to agree on whether or not research is increasing. But if the new approach to the Council of State continues to increase the research that has now been done on the new system, we will never reach the 3pst target, as far as I can see. So the Council of State says that the 3 pst. goal is to be achieved primarily by strengthening industry's involvement in research. Of course, it is important, and therefore it is very strange to remove the gift-enhancing scheme. I don't understand why you do that either. Both the Council of State and various other politicians sometimes say that it is to save money, release money for other things, and then they say at other times that it does not work – without evaluating the scheme or considering extending it to, for example. The university hospitals, which might have thought to be involved. So what really makes you remove the gift enhancement scheme? And what measures are more targeted to make business more researchable?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e568	There are many measures that stimulate business to research. But I think, as I said, the most important measure is that business itself sees the importance of research, acquire new knowledge to improve the environmentally friendly production of the different products, acquire knowledge to meet the climate challenges and to meet more demanding customers both in Norway and in the rest of the world. We know that there is a need for knowledge, and we also know that Norwegian businesses are actually doing a lot of research, but that many of them are not included in these statistics as the 3 pst. goal is about. Can we not now agree that the most important thing for us is that we are making an effort, that the state is making an effort, and that the state's efforts are stimulating, hopefully, the business community to also make an effort? Then we have an important job to do with showing the world how necessary it is with more knowledge in the vitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e575	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e587	There will be one change in the set-up of the question list, and the President will show in that context the overview that has been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 6, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e596	The first question is from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister of Justice. This is the first time the Minister of Justice has met with the constitutional and parliamentary responsibility, so we welcome the new Minister of Justice to cooperate with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e603	Let me also take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Justice and to congratulate her on the job and the challenges she faces. So to the question: ‘The undersigned refers to Nordlys on 10 November, where it appears that a police lawyer ends as a result of major bureaucracy in the police sector. Furthermore, reference is made to the need for increased access to police posts in visible operational service. What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure less bureaucracy in the police sector, thereby increasing the proportion of annual work used in visible operational service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e619	The question has been referred to the national lawyer as in his response, inter alia: pronunciation: ‘We have, as we know, a two-track system with regard to the management of Norwegian police, among others. based on guarantees of legal certainty and an explicit wish – and long tradition of the political independence of criminal proceedings in individual cases. According to the national lawyer’s assessment, this system does not lead to an increase in red tape that shifts operational resources to administration, rather to the opposite. Proximity — also organisational — between legal and investigators facilitates effective and good task-solving.’ [[the prosecution authority;]] The Ministry of Justice has started work such as: shall review the tasks and organisation of the police — the performance reform — and the further development of the police and officers’ seat. The purpose of the reform is to make more efficient and targeted use of the resources available at all times. The reform is anchored in the government’s political platform for 2009–2013. The reform is widespread and will contribute to the reduction of crime, increased clarification and a close and strong police force. The government will maintain a decentralised police structure and have less administration to get a more visible and accessible police force. The work on the performance reform will include issues such as governance, management, tasks, technology and methodology, competence and learning. The district structure of the establishment will be reviewed, with particular emphasis on police first line service and the relationship with local communities and the public. These measures will be discussed in the main Communication on the further development of the Police and Lenavian Setaten, which is planned to be transmitted to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2012. It is an overall objective of the government to ensure that the Police and the National Assembly has sufficient staff and competence for the tasks to be carried out. In 2012, the figure is set at 12.2 billion. kr to the police and the prosecution authority. In the period 2005-2011, the government has thus increased the appropriations for police and prosecution by 4 billion. kr, 48,8 pst. I Prop. 1 S for 2012 — i.e. the budget proposal for next year — proposes an increase in the budget of 696 million. kr. In 2008, the police directorate presented the police report against 2020 – The need for manpower and competence in the police. The police directorate and police organisations agreed to recommend that police staff be increased by 2 700 police officers and 1 000 civilian posts up to 2020 in order to achieve the target of two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants by 2020. So far, the government has followed the recommendations of the police directorate's report. However, I cannot guarantee that there will be two officials per 1000 inhabitants by 2020. This will include, inter alia: depends on the annual proposals for the State budget and their impact on 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e635	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good to know that there are things going on in the form of a reform. Since I asked the question, this issue has definitely been raised in connection with the National Audit Office's report, which is critical of the resources available to the police, and how little they can get out of these resources. In addition, there was a big headline in the evening post yesterday, where the head of the Justice Committee pointed out the same thing, that too little of the resources went to the police. This is not a new issue for the justice sector and the Minister of Justice. There is a reform going on, but I will assume that there are clearly parts that you can already do something about to reduce red tape. Then my question is: will the Council of State intervene and get to Stortinget at an early stage with some parts in order to implement a smaller bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e644	This is of course a matter which concerns me as Minister of Justice. First of all, I was committed to making it clear how the division of labour is between law enforcement and the police, and that we have good and effective cooperation arrangements here. The second is of course resources and effective use of them in the police. The thorough analysis that is now being carried out in the context of the performance reform, I think, will provide a good basis for a good discussion also in this Chamber on the fight against crime, the resources and whether we have an effective use of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e651	I thank you for your answer. I am well aware of the division of labour and that this is subject to assessments in each budget. But what is also quite clear is, among other things, If you have more police in the streets, you get results. It showed the weekend two weeks ago in Oslo, when you had more visible police. Crime went down considerably. So here it might be more urgent than to sit and wait for a reform that comes in 2012. It is already possible to get started and take action, for some of those who have joined the police have stated as a reason for them to stop, that it is a major bureaucracy. Then my question to the Council of State is, how do you take care of the feedback that comes from inside the police? Those who end up in the police state that there is too much bureaucracy. How are they being heard in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e658	The picture of crime is complex — and so are the challenges. This is some of the background to the extensive work that is now being done in advance of the message that we are going to present to the Stortinget. We also have close and good cooperation, of course, with the civil servants' organisations on both whole and single solutions. The effort in Oslo we know has been reinforced by the police this week before Christmas. We know that important work is also being done in the police council in the city. My challenge both to the Police Directorate and to the police districts is how we can ensure effective learning transfer, and also how we can apply new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e669	I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on a new job. She's probably going to do a good job – as her predecessor: ‘Haugaland and Sunnhordland police districts have been among the country’s worst police coverage for a long time, with a number of less than 1.1 posts per 1000 inhabitants. This undermines the security of the citizens of the entire police district and reduces the police's ability to do the job they're going to do for society. Will the Council of State change the allocation fraction so that the police district can have posts at least in line with the average for the police districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e678	Over the period 2005–2011, the government increased the appropriations for police and prosecution from 8.2 billion. NOK 12,2 billion, which I have already mentioned in a previous question. This is a gain of 4 billion. Nominal kr. The reinforcement carried out during the period has also benefited Haugaland and Sunnhordland police districts. In the same period, the budget for the district has been strengthened – after what I have been informed – by 35,2 pst. On the basis of today's management system, it is my job as Minister of Justice to provide the police with a budget, while the Police Directorate is the one who disposes and distributes the funds to the police districts. Police districts receive a framework appropriation to cover all expenditure, such as salaries, operations, premises and investments. In each police district, it is the police chief’s responsibility as a result to ensure a balanced disposal of allocated funds, which takes care of both key priorities and the needs of the local population for police services. This also includes a responsibility for establishing an annual work framework. Good allocation between resources and tasks is a prerequisite for good use of resources. Today’s resource allocation model relies on a number of criteria related to police response and where crime prevention and security represent the main areas. Before the model was introduced, it was sent to all police departments for consultation. There was broad agreement on the model, on the criteria selected and on the weighting of the criteria. At the same time, several districts point to differences in resource allocation between their own and other police districts. It is therefore decided, as part of the performance reform, that the model should be reviewed. Since parts of the structure of the model are linked to the police district structure, a full revision of the model will only take place after a decision on any new police district structure has been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e689	I just want to advise the Council of State to have a different approach to the questions than what Storberget had for six years, namely, how much money has been allocated in the last few years. The Stortinget has now brought it. The point is how to prioritize the money that is granted at all times. It is not often the police officers criticise the budgets that have been fairly loyal. But in the Haugesunds Avis last week – after a meeting that the police chief had had with the police director – the police chief goes out and says that it goes beyond preparedness, that the difference between the police districts in Norway has become too big and that he has been clear that it can no longer continue. The police district has approx. 1 200 more crimes and 25,000 more people than, for example: Trom's police district, without me criticizing the crew there. So they are about 40 fewer policemen – there are more people and larger regions. I believe that the Minister of Justice is well served to get into the model and try to influence it himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e698	That gives the review a good basis for doing. This is a model where one has to take over the whole, and where it is necessary for us, of course, to know that the criteria underlying it are based on both demographic and crime. This review will also provide the basis for the allocation of specific funds, as it has done in the past. If we review the model, it will of course also provide the basis for the revised allocation of funds to different districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e703	I fully understand that the Minister of Justice is new and has no detailed knowledge of the circumstances surrounding this. I have suggested that the job she did as Minister of Defense made her relatively limited knowledge of the Haugesund region, because there are relatively few defence facilities of importance. In this way, I believe that by taking a tour of this part of Norway, she would see the need for the new prison that is on the stairs – it is a very high priority, says the rumors in criminal custody – and also the precarious need for police personnel. So I hope that the Council of State will reasonably quickly take a trip to an area she may have been small in. It gives me the impression when, in a review with the Police Directorate, the management of the police district is informed that there is a real decline in the police budget for this police district to next year. I think the Council of State and the Ministry of Justice should take a little review of that. Because it is quite obvious that there are errors when the trend is towards less than 1.1 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. Then it has gone too far, and then the Ministry of Justice has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e710	I appreciate the nice invitations. It is obvious to me that I also consider visits to that district, just as I also have to consider other invitations that have arrived. I find it difficult to understand that an increase in the budget for Haugaland and Sunnhordland police districts between 2005 and 2011 by 35,2 pst. may be described as a decrease in the budget. But how we get the best possible use of resources, and how we get a police service as close to the public as possible, are important issues that will also be addressed in the already mentioned performance reform, and with which we will return to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e721	‘On several occasions, the Minister of Finance expresses the view that investment in road and rail infrastructure is best placed above the State budget and not as independent project financing. Most of the other state infrastructure is realised through companies that cannot be governed by government's fiscal policies, but rather are part of the overall level of activity of society regulated by monetary policy. How does the Council explain this discrimination on, for example: Aerodrome and railway investments?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e728	It is such that over time one has chosen to finance parts of State infrastructure outside the State budget. This applies, for example: aerodromes, as stated, and the transmission system for power. In addition, many road projects are financed by tolls. A common feature of these things is that the activity is financed by user payment and not by government budget appropriations. Avinor has e.g. tax-free sales and other business activities, bringing large revenues into Avinor. Statnet finances the electrical network through network leases and user payments in that way. But there are many priority purposes that are not financed by user payments: police, justice, health and school services. If objectives are shifted out of the budget, with earmarked funding, it becomes more difficult to ensure overall and good priorities. The more one moves out of the budget, the less appropriate the government budget will also be in the management of cyclical events. An overall government budget contributes to a good overview and control of the state's activity and economy, and I think it also provides a good framework for making good policy priorities. Loan financing is in fact repayable, and if it is done in the manner the representative Halleraker wishes, it will have to be repaid by means of State budget appropriations, and could be a circumvention of the action rule and thus burden future budgets. The budgetary system does not prevent priority being given to roads and railways. This has been shown by the government through the transport plan. Nor does the budgetary system prevent a person from ensuring good progress and ensuring that good projects receive appropriations over several years. One can also do this by placing particularly important transport investments on own items in the State budget. We've opened it up on several different projects. So finally, I just want to say that the problems in many of the countries that now have significant economic challenges clearly show how important it is to keep budgetary policy in order. Sound budgetary principles and an open and comprehensive budgetary process provide a good basis for us to succeed in the years ahead in keeping order in the Norwegian economy. I believe it is important that good objectives to be financed by the State are financed through the State budget and not by different ways of circumventing the rule of action by financing it outside the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e743	I thank you for the answer and will immediately hurry to say that we fully agree that we are going to keep good order in the Norwegian economy. What I have tried to put on the search light is the discrimination that is taking place. When we know that road investment in the annual government budget is in the order of 6 billion. NOK 1 000 billion. it is not possible for road investment as such to bring the major accident over an expansive or less expansive state budget. I am concerned about whether this can be seen better as part of monetary policy, where investment competes with all other investments in society. In fact, I think that many road investments would be preferable in the future to the level of activity, for example. increasing activity in households would lead to Norwegian economy, thus governing the overall investment framework, as is the case with oil investments and power investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e750	There are several things you can grasp here, but there are at least two important differences. One is, as I pointed out in the answer, that for example. Avinor is financed through large user payments, albeit indirectly, including: through duty-free sales. The second is that there is enough socio-economic difference between many of the heavy investments being made in the oil sector and many of the investments that one makes, for example. in the road sector. There is a significant difference in profitability. I think the main point is that we are betting on transport, we have an opportunity to project finance over the state budget, have a long-term perspective by having multi-annual opportunities on the budget side, while I believe that the state budget is exceptionally important as an instrument also for balancing fluctuations in the economy. The more we move out of the budget, the greater the burden the other priority objectives must take – if one is to pursue such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e757	The last thing I actually agree with the Minister of Finance. I think it would have been healthy if we had got a better and stronger competition in what projects would affect the overall monetary policy of society. The problem today is that profitable investment projects in transport are not allowed to compete with other projects. So the Minister of Finance says in his first answer that we have a lot of road projects that are financed and financed through user payments. It sounds like there's a good reason to keep them partly outside. The Prime Minister stood here a few weeks ago and said that if we go into borrowing ways, we're bad out there. It seemed as if he did not have the exact same understanding as the finance minister of this. I would like a little more depth of what the Minister of Finance meant by this in his first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e764	In this area, as in most other areas, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are well synchronised, so to speak. Toll financing has come to be. It is a form of pre-shooting to get projects going, among other things, but it is an important part of the financing of important and heavy road projects. The point of a possible loan in addition is that the Norwegian State does not actually need to borrow for important priority purposes. The most important thing we can do then is to prioritise such investments over the state budget, and that is the full possibility within a framework of about 1000 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e773	The question is as follows: ‘Of the 15 fatalities in traffic in October 2011, two are in Hordaland. Until this year, Hordaland is also very clearly represented in the statistics on fatal accidents with 16 deaths of a total of 147. Overall, the number of fatal accidents is clearly decreasing, but unfortunately not Hordaland. Much more of the road network is now a municipal responsibility. However, I assume that the government and the Council of State take responsibility for road safety on both national and county roads, and that there is a special focus on counties with many fatal accidents. How?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e782	In recent years there has been a clear reduction in the number of people killed and seriously injured in Norway. In 2010, 208 people were killed in road traffic. This is the lowest number of road traffic fatalities since 1954. This year’s development suggests that the number will be even lower in 2011. At the same time, there has been some increase in the number of deaths in Hordaland. Occurrence figures up to no this year show that Hordaland has fewer people who have lost their lives in traffic than at the same time last year. Equally full is still one of the states in the country with the most killed, which I focus on. When it was badly damaged, it has been a steady decline in the last ten years. Most of the deadlocks in Hordaland have occurred on national roads, and efforts are being made to improve the situation. Active and comprehensive efforts are also being made to improve road safety in Hordaland, where several partners work together. The Road Safety Selection in Hordaland is led by the County Municipality, but also Statens vägvesen and Trygg Trafik are represented. In the selection, there is good cooperation between different public organisations and voluntary organisations. They have established an action plan on road safety covering both road and roadside measures. In the Bergen programme, the Stadens vägvesen cooperates with both the municipality of the county and the municipality of Bergen. Here, an action plan has been drawn up in line with the Road Safety Action Plan for the County and Municipal Road Safety Plan. In the same way, the State Road Administration cooperates with the County Municipality and the Municipality of Bømlo in the Bømlo package. In the Haugalands package, the State Road Administration and County Council cooperate with the municipality of Etne and the municipality of Sveio, where road safety measures on the county road network are also given priority. The state road authority, the county council, the municipality and the police are also cooperating on a project on e.g. 57 – towards Mongstad – in North Hordland. The state road authority continued to participate in the work of municipal plans to improve road safety in the county. The representative Sortevik has several times recorded the accident situation at E16 between Bergen and Voss. I refer to my answer to question No. 211 for written answers. The report from the working group on which the immediate action should be taken has now been completed. That means that the projects that are notified there will be started in turn and in order. The State has an overall responsibility for road safety, regardless of road authority. It is a government responsibility, through the transfer of sufficient economic resources, to enable the counties to build, operate and maintain an effective and secure name.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e799	Thanks for the answer. At least I'm glad the Council of State confirms that the state has a responsibility. After the presentation of this report related to the E16 between Hngereid and Voss last week, which means that this issue only comes today, one could get the impression that the state and the government are using as an excuse for a very worrying accident situation on the E16, that there has been a lack of pressure from the affected state. I assume that the state is doing what is to be done, regardless of whether the pressure from the state that borrows land into a state road, i.e. a European road and highway, is perceived as high or low. I would like the Council of State to confirm that we actually agree on that, and that, in addition to plans that are now in fact described by the Council of State in the first answer, they also follow the actual developments on the accident side and make sure that action is taken if that development is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e804	For the results of the E16 priority given to the county, the county will give its opinion on the most important priorities in the context of the national transport plans. In that context, I have been told that former member of the board of directors Torill Selsvold Nyborg has confirmed that this is the case. It has also been followed up by my political adviser. I haven't said anything about it and I'm not going to do it either. I think we should be busy with the notes and the situation in the notes, and of the future, what can be done to prevent new clocks, and that's what my task is to follow up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e809	I am pleased that the Council of State has a focus on improving road safety in Hordaland, both in the short and longer term. The report submitted has some shortcomings regarding medium-term measures. What's long-term is building a safer road. As far as the E16 is concerned, it is actually the case that on the other side of Voss there is a detailed planning for a new tunnel from Vinje towards Oppheim in the municipality of Voss. So it looks like you're picking a bad solution, a short tunnel, which is still driving traffic through Uppheim, instead of choosing a long tunnel, which will provide safer transport and safer traffic, because you're driving the traffic outside of built-up roads. The aim is to increase the speed of newly built sections, but the newly built section will partially pass through densely built strips. Will the Council of State take a closer look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e814	Let me first say that what is important now in the short term is to follow up the 21 actions that the working group has identified for the E16. There was a rather strange presentation of this in parts of the media afterwards, where it seemed that there was no money for these measures. But when Regional West gets its funds up in 2012 as a result of our budget proposal, they have funds, and then the Council of State doesn't have to bring new money to Waksdal – that day last week. Then there's the E16 and the challenges there. It is important to get more of the traffic on track – because of this cooperation project between track and road. So to the E16 on the other side of the Voss. There's my answer: it's a matter that I know too little at present, but I'll look closer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e823	The next question is still Arne Sortevik, but it is the Minister of Health to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e830	It is not because I receive special treatment, but because the previous question was postponed one week. It's a question to the Minister of Health and Care. ‘Recently, there has been a strong focus on the chaos-like degradation of good quality in the hospital supply that reorganisation within the Oslo University Hospital leads to, in particular, an increase in waiting time before treatment for groups with life-threatening and serious illness. However, as reports on TV 2 have shown, there is also unacceptable and irresponsible patient follow-up and waiting time development for patient groups in hospitals elsewhere in the country. How do the Department and the Council of State contribute to the quality development of hospitals in the Health West?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e841	I take as my starting point the way I got the question in writing. Now read the representative Sortevik «Directorate of Health» instead of «departement». But the ministry follows up the health businesses. I would first like to state that changes and conversions are an essential part of the quality work in Norwegian hospitals. We can't believe that creating calm and stopping change will give patients a better offer. It's not like this either in Oslo or in the West. In recent years, major changes have been made both in the organisation of hospitals and treatment methods. This has given results Norway can be proud of. We're also confirmed by international studies. As you can see, there is a good question the representative asks. A central task of the Minister of Health is to monitor the quality development of hospitals. That is why I have introduced much more quality objectives that are published and used in my follow-up to, among other things. Health West. The Ministry's management and follow-up is primarily carried out through the mission document and the business meetings. The Ministry sets management requirements in terms of both quality, patient treatment, research, education and training of patients and relatives. In addition, management requirements of an economic and organisational nature are given. Reporting and follow-up of regional health enterprises is carried out by means of annual notification, annual accounts and annual report. I also receive monthly reports that I follow up in meetings, and the regional health companies have expanded reporting for each tertiary. In addition, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has established monthly follow-up meetings with the management of regional health enterprises. In the 2011 mission papers, I have strengthened the management requirements relating to quality and patient safety. Brain strokes, cancer, diabetes and maternity care are among the subject areas followed up. The 2011 mission document also requires all hospitals to participate in the National Patient Safety Campaign in safe hands. In addition, I have notified a big message about quality and patient safety, so that we can discuss this topic in its full scope here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e858	Thanks for the answer. The last part is unconditionally positive, a broad discussion of what should and should be quality in the hospital sector and how it is followed up. TV 2's report on Tuesday 15 November about the patient with prostate cancer was from Haukeland University Hospital in Health Bergen. He had first waited a very long time for the investigation, so waited for the results of the tests, and now he is waiting for treatment. In the same report, the surgical department in Haukeland confirmed that the waiting time for treatment for this patient group was 12–14 weeks, i.e. 60–70 working days. But cancer also works on weekends. In addition, the certainty of life-threatening disease strongly affects mental health. Is total waiting time acceptable in this example and especially acceptable in relation to the 20-day waiting time guarantee that patients actually perceive that the country's prime minister has given?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e869	With regard to the waiting time that was advanced in that report, it is very difficult to go into a single case, but this long waiting time is not acceptable in relation to the objectives we have set in terms of treatment and patient progression – this is because it should take 20 days from the hospital receiving a referral to treatment. That's the objective of 80 pst. by the patients. It must also be that if treatment is not started, patients must be informed why it is not done, that it is not necessary to start treatment, or that they should wait and see. In some cases it's like this, without me going into medical assessments. That's not my area. Then it is very important to know what the Prime Minister has actually said. He said that for 80 pst. of patients, there is a target for initiation of treatment within 20 working days. It's for hospitals to set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e878	Thank you again for your answer. It is well and good with good goals, and what is referred to are good goals. But it's actually even better if they're achieved, and even better if they're clearly achieved, so that it's obvious to the one who's experiencing the uncertainty associated with having a life-threatening disease. Haukeland University Hospital had failed to handle writing to patients upon transition to electronic hospital systems in 2010. It has been duly reported in the press. They have had a long-standing deviation from national guidelines on overtime in pregnancy, which is only now closed in November 2011. Haukeland’s own websites show quality indicators that have some worse results than the national average. Time to wait has been reported in a variety of ways - for cancer at all. Today's website shows that waiting time for cancer has been updated on 19 May this year, giving no specific waiting times. I guess that's bad with the good goals, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e889	In the case of the quality indicators — especially with the lead times of cancer — new figures were published yesterday. They are now on the web, on healthnorge.no. That's where they have to be. It says what the situation is for each hospital. It's absolutely right that there are inequalities between hospitals. In the case of the lead-time, which is important for patients with a serious disease, this is particularly important precisely for the reasons that the representative Blackevik mentions: Cancer is a dangerous disease – can be dangerous and life-threatening – and it may be difficult for the individual to have such a serious diagnosis. That's why we have to do what we can to facilitate the situation for patients. An agreed course of patients is then important — and predictability is in it. But the quality objectives are very important to know where to stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e903	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. The next question is Per Roar Bredvold, and Defense Minister Espen Barth Eide will answer. Then the President takes the opportunity to welcome the Council of State to the Stortinget. I congratulate him on his office and want a good cooperation between the Stortinget and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e912	I would also like to congratulate Mr Eide as Minister of Defence. To that end, I would like to ask the following questions: ‘More HV districts have now been proposed, such as: HV-05. HV-05 has an estimated 3,650 soldiers in Hedmark and works very well, and is, and will be, a very important part of our preparedness in a crisis, regardless of the situation. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate once again to reduce the number of HV districts and the number of HV soldiers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e921	Thank you for your words, President. I look forward to the cooperation. The current long-term defence sector plan represents the end of an in-depth defence reform that has given us today's modern response defense. This long-term plan expires in 2012. As you know, the government aims to present a new long-term plan for the defence sector in spring 2012. This will indicate the direction of the Defence into a new era, and build on the current broad lines that are widely agreed upon on the Stortinget. In this context, the Defence Manager will present his/her professional-military advice tomorrow. The Council will play an important role in the government's work on the new long-term plan. Home security is today an important part of our overall preparedness for crises, war and for major national events. In January of this year my predecessor gave the Chief of Defence the defence policy priorities that underpin the work of a comprehensive professional-military council. Among other things, the Chief of Defense was asked to conduct a thorough review of the country's defence, including the Army and the Home Office. The terror that struck us on 22 July has further updated the importance of civil-military cooperation. In addition, the Defence Manager was subsequently asked to assess how the defence resources could be further structured and made more appropriate in order to provide assistance to civil society. In this context, the protection of the home is particularly advanced by the government. As Minister of Defence, I am concerned that the work on a new long-term plan should be a thorough and broad political process, with contributions and anchoring in the activities concerned and in close cooperation with the employees' representatives. The Chief of Defence Council will provide a good basis for public debate on the issues to be addressed in the long-term plan. Both the technical advice and the public debate are important input to the government's work. The government, in turn, will present its overall proposal for a new long-term plan for the Defense of the Stortinge to spring. Therefore, on this basis, I do not want to comment on individual elements of the advice I receive until tomorrow. However, there is no doubt that Home Security will continue to play a key role in a future defence structure, and that in the development of Home Security we will place great emphasis on an even better civil-military cooperative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e940	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was, to that extent, a good investigation, but it did not say so much about what the new Minister of Defence himself wants and believes. I remember the time I started on the defence committee – that was in 2001 – and if I remember the figures correctly, it was about. 83,000 Home Guard soldiers and approximately 83,000 Home Guard soldiers. 20 Homeland Districts. Now both of these numbers are approx. halved, and if the leaks that show that there will be even fewer home-protection districts – and perhaps even fewer home-protection soldiers – turn out to be right, then at least I'm personally very afraid of the situation we're going into. If we look further ahead, and the Home Guard may be decommissioned and become part of the Army, it is – with my personal position – that jokes about me. But at least I interpret the Council of State as he looks positively at the Home Office and wants to lay a protective hand over it. I'll interpret it your way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e949	Governments are free to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e952	I would like to stress that I share Bredvold's view of the importance of Home Protection, and I would also like to say that although there are fewer people involved in today's Home Protection, there is a significantly better home protection we have today than we had ten years ago. Since I was a few years before it was in the Home Office itself, I should say that we did a good job. But I think what's done today is even better, and that we've seen through both the exercises and the training levels that we've had a quality reform that's brought the Home Protection system forward. Without foreshadowing the defense chief's proposal, I will take that view with me in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e962	I thank you for those comments – which I, as I said, choose to look positive. Then we'll see what's coming tomorrow, and hope that there are positive signals, both for the Defense as a whole and for the Homeland Protection. Because there is no doubt that the Home Office has local expertise, it has characteristics that we can use in a crisis situation – regardless of crisis – in a good way. I don't think there's any other form of preparedness that could be better than having an up-to-date, good home protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e967	I would like to emphasise once again that I share Bredvold's view of the importance of having an up-to-date and modern protection of homes within the mission aspect that Home Protection has received from government and mass destruction. We will take that with us in the work further. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I look forward to working with the Stortinge on a future long-term plan, and would remind you that tomorrow I will not respond to the details of the proposal for respect for tomorrow's Defence Manager's day, and we have a subsequent political process that ends up in a comprehensive long-term plan proposal for the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e976	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. ‘Stavanger Aftenblad has a case on 16 November 2011 concerning a nurse who was injured while in service in Afghanistan. She had to undergo surgery after she came home, and then she felt that her efforts for the country gave little back. The size has been concerned for a long time with the good treatment of those who serve outside even after return. Does the Council of State think that this case gives the Defense positive feedback, and what action will the Council of State take to improve the situation of those who need it after the end of service?"
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e985	The proper provision of defence personnel is a government area. It is obvious that injured soldiers will have good follow-up both at home and outside. However, I ask for an understanding that I cannot go into the very individual matter that Ellingsen here raises. However, let me say the following: the government presented an action plan earlier this year with a number of measures for the provision of staff before, during and after foreign service. In Norwegian scientific policy, a general principle has been established that injured personnel should be followed up in the ordinary health, care and social services. The execution of injured persons, both health, social and economic, is a social responsibility. Norway has a good health and welfare service and a good welfare system. Experience shows that those in need of help are best served by using the established schemes. This gives better care, quality and resource use than if the defence that the employer should establish special care. Our soldiers deserve the best treatment. However, we need to ensure that health services and other public services have a better understanding of the special health challenges facing veterans. The action plan therefore contains concrete cooperation measures between the health service and the defence to ensure this precisely. These include: develop a training package in military psychiatry for doctors and psychologists. Cross-ministerial work shall contribute to the continued focus on the implementation of the Action Plan and the development of actions. The defense now has its own veteran inspector who runs a project called the Defence Veterinary Service. The service is a low-threshold offer to our veterans. Veterans shall always be able to request further guidance from the Defence Veterinary Service. From 2010 onwards, the veterans have been given a legal right to one year of psychological and psychiatric follow-up under the auspices of the Defence Agency. Regardless of the time since service, the defence shall be able to offer investigations and further references to the healthcare system. Next week, the defense will organise its own veteran conference to contribute to an increased understanding of the veterans' special challenges. Central actors from the public sector will participate. The execution of injured veterans is a responsibility we take very seriously. In recent years, the government has prioritised this work highly. The many initiatives and actions undertaken are in the process of strengthening the follow-up of the defence in a good way. The objectives and actions of the action plan are also geared towards a better, more seamless and holistic social responsibility for the veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e1002	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I doubt neither the ambition nor the vision of government to do better. But the challenge is, even if we are not going to discuss individual matters, that there are actually too many examples of people who register the words but miss the action. With that as a back cover, you can use the case that I am raising today as a reference point. So here we have a person who's been out, served, returned with an injury, and feels like the one she's been working for, doesn't value it. So the Council of State says to take care of staff before, during and after foreign service. In addition, they say that those who have been out should have the best treatment. I would then say, with the background of this matter, that it does not exactly light up from this example in that way. My challenge to the Council of State is, of course, then: Since we still have these challenges, what concrete action does the Council of State think should be taken to put this in place? For example, there are enterprises in Norway today, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. has insurance arrangements and takes care of theirs. What will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e1009	This is a field that has been working a lot for now for a number of years, and I think the situation is considerably better than it was, but at the same time not as well as it should be. That's why there's still work to get these things in place. But I want to repeat that the starting point is that the somatic support of the defense for soldiers is given when they're on duty out there. When they come home, the follow-up of normal somatic disorders will take place in the normal health system. Then we've found that there are certain challenges that are typical of veterans, and we've set in motion a better cooperation between the Defense and the relevant agencies to make it better. But I don't want a system where, for example, public servants are purchased at the front of the queue with regard to the priorities of the normal health care system. We have a good health care system, and it is important to use it in the best possible way, with a special understanding of the challenges facing veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e1016	With all sorts of respect, that means, if I'm going to interpret the council correctly, that if everyone has the same good/like bad, it's kind of okay. I would like to believe that this is in the utmost consequence and challenges the recruitment of the defence. If in the worst case, people are going to be able to risk coming back with a lasting injury, and then feel safe in this way, I think you might be hesitating. I might imagine asking the Council of State in more general terms. It's a shame that the defense gets a look-up of quite a negative nature at regular intervals. We saw yesterday that the Riksrevision was out and said something about the defense's ability to deliver according to Stortingen's order. This is one thing. There are other things where the defense is hit because you either handle things too badly, or simply don't have the ability to have the focus you need. Now the Minister of Defence has recently joined. What ambition does the Minister of Defense have in dealing with or reducing the volume of issues that give the Defense negative publicity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e1025	I understand that the representative Ellingen is now expanding the topic somewhat, but that's fine. Let me first say that it is difficult to go into a specific individual matter that lies in the health care system. However, substitution schemes have been established that are widely used in that type of case and that did not exist before, and they are among the best available in public Norway. I know from my second appearance that other agencies envy the defense of the arrangements that have now come. With regard to my general ambitions, it is to continue the very positive development we have had in the same years. We are now seeing synergies take effect. We get better results every year on the operational capability of the defense, and that will be my first priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e1034	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-23.ana.ud1456e1047	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
