ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e26	Two permit applications are available: from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative Henning Skumsvoll from 4 May onwards and until further notice from the representative Dagfinn Højbräten on leave from 4 May until 9 May to attend meetings of the GAVI vaccine fund in Copenhagen, Geneva and Berlin On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Western Agder province: Tor Sigbjørn For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e59	Tor Sigbjørn Utsognogn and Kjell Arvid Svendsen are present and will take the seat. The representative, Bente Thorsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e64	On behalf of the representatives of Tord Lien, Jon Georg Dale and myself, I am delighted to promote a Document 8 proposal to develop teaching material on the efforts of Norwegian military sailors during the Second World War.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e69	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e81	On Monday, the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Trond Giske, Erik Solheim and Anniken Huitfeldt will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e88	Norway is a country rich in natural resources. We are rich in industrial activities and history. Gas is one of our big sources of income, and we're world leaders in extracting gas. Several around the country want to use this gas also for industrial development and value creation in Norway. I was at the Barents Conference in Hammerfest recently. The post that received the most applause was when the trade union movement demanded that a person should be able to use gas for local industrial activities. The concrete project concerns Alcoa, the world's largest aluminium producer, who wants to do something as simple as building almost a copy of what Hydro has built in Qatar. There will be large investments, a lot of jobs, and it's about further developing an industry where we're already among the best, namely aluminium production. In today's Business last month, the local Labour Party rapporteur, Alf E. Jacobsen, went out and thought that the government was running with double standards that did not allow the company to establish itself in Finnmark, when one has cheered that Hydro establishes similar activities based on gas in Qatar. In the Questionnaire a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that ‘gas is environmentally friendly’. The government has also repeatedly stressed that, through the EU's allowances regime, there will be a ceiling on total CO2 emissions in Europe, which means that if one increases emissions in Norway, they will have to be cut elsewhere. At the same time, the Mongstad Moon landing of the government has been postponed and will be completed by 2020 at the earliest. This means that if Alcoa is to be required to clean its plant, it will be completed by 2024 at the earliest. Then the question to the Minister for the Environment: what will the government do to enable Alcoa to implement its plans before 2024?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e104	The question asked by Solvik-Olsen is important, but this is not the first time the question is asked in Stortinget. Even so, Solvik-Olsen has put it up to me several times before, and the answer is the same as before: The government is positive to Alcoa's plans, as long as they are based on gas cleaning, i.e. carbon capture and storage facilities or other forms of purification. I would like to stress that for the autumn Stortinget will be presented with the climate report. It is based on the climate agreement that six of the seven Biggest parties agreed on. The Progress Party was outside this climate agreement and is thus in an easier position to propose all projects and not look at the sum of them, while the Six other parties of the Stortinge have committed themselves to an overall Norwegian emission reduction – a Norwegian emission reduction within an international framework. Of course, Solvik-Olsen is right in saying that the most important thing is total global emission reductions. But in order to achieve global emission reductions, the rich developed countries need to do more than we do today. The reason for that is that it is with us the technology development is happening. It is impossible to imagine that one should be able to achieve some kind of global climate agreement without the responsibility of the rich developed countries. That is why we have a Norwegian emissions obligation, and it is therefore impossible to say yes to the many proposals of the Progress Party. This is not the only thing – there are many proposals that in themselves can be good enough isolated – but the calculation does not go up. The Climate Communication will show that there are significant problems in achieving the climate targets set by the Storting, because they require a reduction in oil, in industry, in transport, in electricity supply, in construction – i.e. total reductions that will bring us down. We cannot then open up ever-increasing proposals to increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Then it becomes even more difficult to achieve the goals set by an overall increase, except for the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e113	I think I will follow up with the Minister for Industry, because it is good that the Minister for the Environment confirms that the Progress Party has made many proposals for using gas in Norway and developing Norwegian industry. Gas is not the only way to do it. But when large industrial enterprises need considerable power, we have seen in Central Norway how this has been handled by former governments and today's government. It has not been satisfactory either for industry or for the region it happens in. That's why Alcoa says they want to use local gas to secure their own power supply. That doesn't mean we're not going to bet on renewable energy – we have a total mass that is behind green certificates. But as long as one requires a complete CO2 clean technology, as the government itself says they don't think will come into place by 2020, it means that a political choice is also to postpone new industrial activities in Norway based on the natural resources that we are very proud to be able to sell to all the other countries. The councils themselves were in Qatar and opened Hydro's facilities, and were then very proud. Will the Minister of Industry do anything to enable Alcoa to establish similar facilities in Norway before 2024?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e123	I fully agree that access to power is an important factor for very much of our industry. That is why we worked very intensively, both against the 2009 elections and afterwards, to put in place a new power regime. It was said from the right that it was impossible to achieve, because now it was free competition. We got into a guarantee scheme that now allows the enterprise after the enterprise to enter into new long-term power contracts. Norwegian Forest received e.g. an agreement now for 12 years' business, and that's very good. We also know that green certificates will give us 12–13 TWh more in Norway – 26 in total in Norway and Sweden. State power has received 14 billion. kr more in equity and shall invest for 80 billion. renewable energy, including in Norway, so that there is a great deal now to provide more energy. And then we have to put the transmission system in place. I hope that we can also use gas for energy in the future, but it must be done within the climate agreement that the Storting has agreed, otherwise there are other parts of business that have to pay the same bill. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e130	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Torgeir Tåldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e133	I will follow up with the Minister of Industry. The Minister of Industry was present at the opening of the Hydro aluminium factory in Qatar together with the Crown Prince. The aluminium factory in Qatar receives electricity from gas that is not CO2 purified. The councils said he was very pleased with the new factory. The largest aluminium producer in the world, Alcoa, will build a mill for 15 billion. kr i Hammerfest in Finnmark. Alcoa's plans could mean 500 new jobs in a state that has experienced relocation in the last 20 years. The condition of Alcoa is that they have to build a gas power plant with today's technology with gas from Snow White – identical to Alcoa in Finnmark. The district and industrial enemy government of Stoltenberg does not want to facilitate a new industrial venture in North Norway, but provides for more deportation. So my question to the Council of State about the Minister of Industry can explain to the Norwegian people: what is the difference between CO2 emissions in Qatar and CO2 emissions in Finnmark? Why is the Council of State not willing to give Finnmark and North Norway growth and security?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e153	I believe it is a challenge for Norwegian business and for European business that there are countries in the world that do not participate in international climate pricing. Therefore, the government is constantly working on international, global, agreements, so that CO2 has a cost everywhere. It's unfair that countries that Qatar has signed out of those systems, and we have to work to get it settled. However, the answer is not that Norway should also sign up. The answer is to get Qatar and all the other countries in, if you think, as six out of seven parties on the Biggest believe, that climate problems are a challenge we have to solve. I believe that environmental requirements and good rules actually contribute to business development, because it develops new technologies, and it develops new business opportunities. But at the same time, we need to make sure that our industry is not burdened to such an extent that they are out of competition until we get the global agreements in place. We're also working on that, for example. towards the EU quota regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e163	Frank Bakke-Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e166	Sometimes you can get the feeling that the government is signing agreements with embalming fluids, because there's not so much in them that shows up in the future. The climate agreement is for the right a document that will help us to think forward. We shall think in a sustainable future – and well within the commitments of the climate agreement, it will be to give Alcoa the same support schemes that are currently being given to the players in Mongstad. Then maybe you could do something before 2024. The paradox here is that there are now finished sketches for industrial projects in Kiruna, based on Norwegian gas. So the unemployed in Finnmark would be able to see the smoke from the Kiruna industry, while at the same time extracting their unemployment allowance – so it was jobs and value creation from the gas you can't use in Norway. Could the Council of State be willing to look at aid schemes, so that Alcoa can start a clean-up project at a plant in Hammerfest, in line with the way money is spent in Mongstad today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e176	Then the President has realized that the supplementary question is to the Council of State Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e179	It's a little bit uncertain. I can answer, but I really think this is a question for the oil and energy minister. I can take it, we're one government, and we're working together. The whole idea behind a quota segment is to get a clean-up where it's cheapest. If we get a system that stimulates that kind of clean-up, that's good. We're also spending quite a few hundred million, and billions in fact, on the state budget to develop clean-up technologies for CO2. Nothing would please me more than if we could get power from gas based on the cleaning of CO2, which gave e.g. aluminium production based on the plans of Alcoa or other types of metals, usually based on Norwegian ores. Then we really had a win-win situation. But if someone gets an exemption – and someone gets it – others have to take the bill. It is also true that if Swedes, Finns or others down on the continent use Norwegian gas, these emissions enter their accounts. So there's no free lunch anywhere. How they then handle their obligations becomes their cause. But we have to deal with ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e194	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e197	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Industry, for this issue is about creating new jobs. When the Council of State has now determined that he does not want the establishment of Alcoa, it will be natural to ask what other measures the Council of State will focus on in the future. In industry and in industry in general, our competence is our first and foremost competitive advantage. Investment in research and development is essential for new industrial enterprises to see the light of day. Despite the fact that the government continues to hold speeches on new schemes and new increased appropriations for research, actual figures, recently submitted by the SSB and NIFU, show a real decline of 3.6 pst. The government is slowing down companies that want to bet on research and development, because the box is empty. Why does the government not insist on stimulating research and development in industry to create new industrial jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e206	The President must remember that there is a full opportunity to ask follow-up questions to a government council other than the one that got the main question. There will be no opportunity to address new themes in follow-up questions. Obviously, this is what Andersen Eide did here. But the President will nevertheless leave to the Council of State Guess if he will answer a question that I don't wonder if he appreciated getting. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e209	I disagree with the premise. If you look at the facts – I think it’s nice to judge politicians from results and not just words – then the reality is that from 2005 there have been 220,000 more jobs in Norway. In that period, the Bondevik government had overthrown Norway, there had thus been between 20,000 and 25,000 more. 150,000 of the new jobs have come into the private sector. We even have more industrial jobs today than we had in 2005, even though we have been through a financial crisis. Only in More and Romesdal have we received 9 000 more jobs under our government. It thrives in Norwegian business. We have 3.5 pst. unemployment in a Europe of 24 million unemployed. It's amazing. Business is going well, and we're going to keep going. As far as research is concerned – now we have the Minister of Culture here too – everyone has heard about the cultural promise: we have increased the cultural budget by over 60 pst. We have increased the research budget almost as much. Nearly every year, the research budget has actually been ahead of the cultural budget at the rate of growth, and we must continue to invest in research. We have a business that because of its structure researches a little less than, for example, in electronics, in the automotive industry, in the aviation industry and elsewhere, but we will continue to invest in research with industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e216	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e219	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment and Development. The situation in Uganda has deteriorated dramatically only in recent years. The space for human rights has gradually been reduced, freedom of expression has been severely pushed, and the democratic parties feel that they are no longer allowed to exercise their responsibilities and democratic privileges as elected representatives. A short time ago, one had a go-to-job action, which was really just a protest at high food prices. It was an action that resulted in the presidential candidate for the opposition being shot in the hand with rubber bullets and got a finger crushed. Last week, the opposition's presidential candidate, Kizza Besigye, was imprisoned. Two people were killed and 90 others injured when the police went very hard to work with the demonstrators who once again protested against a shaky economy, as they see it, with less opportunities, fewer jobs and higher food prices. A month ago, I raised the question again with the Council of State related to the Human Rights Watch report on police and human rights violations. The Council of State repeatedly responds to a careful monitoring of the situation. There is no doubt that Uganda is moving in the wrong direction. When should we expect Norway to move away from direct support to the regime in Uganda, rather from direct support to the population of Uganda? We are all aware that Uganda's population suffers unnecessarily under the regime, but Norwegian aid is helping to legitimize someone who goes away from democracy and becomes increasingly authoritarian. When is the Council of State going to turn Norwegian aid away from the Museveni dictatorial regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e232	To start with the most concrete thing: I have already told you a long time ago that we will stop budget support for Uganda. 2011 is the last year, and we won't renew it after 2012. We will move on to other forms of assistance. I have to add that assistance is not primarily a foreign policy tool that can be turned up and down in line with all the trends in a country. The starting point is that aid is an instrument to combat poverty. Uganda has shown very good results in this area for a long time. In the 1980s, 1990s and forwards in the 2000s, Uganda was one of Africa’s major success stories with significant progress in health, school and all other aspects of poverty. But I agree with the questioner that that is all cause for concern. Museveni has now been in power for 25 years. It's, to say the least, a very significant period of time. There is no long experience that presidents sitting in their thirties and forties are a great blessing to a country. The brutality that has also been used against peaceful demonstrators in Uganda the last months after the elections is very worrying. Our ambassador Thorbjørn Gaustadsetther met the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Kampala last week to address this very question. I'm going to Kampala next week to address this and other questions, hopefully with President Museveni and also with other government leaders, and hopefully also meeting opposition leader Besyye to get his view on the situation. So not only do we follow this carefully, we are very, very active in trying to influence the situation. But we also believe that influence is best if it occurs in cooperation with other countries that think the same way. I'm getting a good opportunity, for example. to discuss this with my British and American colleagues when we are together in Sudan this weekend, prior to the visit to Uganda.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e243	We've given about 5 billion. Norwegian crowns to the regime in Uganda since Museveni took power in 1986. There is nothing new now that the regime is becoming more anti-democratic and even more so goes away from respect for human rights. What is now happening in Uganda is what has happened in a number of other countries. The regime is pressured by others who want and can take over power, and the regime clings to power and is willing to use almost all the means. I think it's amazing to hear a government council from SV that's so clear that it's just economic growth that gets people out of poverty. I fully agree that economic growth is the main driving force in bringing people out of poverty. But there is also something else, namely the principle that Norwegian aid should not be harmful, and Norwegian aid to Uganda has helped extend the life of a dictator. I find that very regrettable, and I also think so in the light of the fact that Grete Faremo has called Museveni «the second statesman of Africa». That's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e250	I want to take the sharpest distance from the idea that we've given 5 billion. Mr Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda. If you transfer that idea of how Norwegian aid has been used, it is very dangerous. Norway has used 5 billion. kr on UN programmes and on non-governmental organisations – there may be programmes of the Red Cross or the Church’s Emergency Aid Programmes. We have given money to programs for assembly and education, and that children learn to read, and that women can feed without being the most dangerous day in their lives, does not contribute to keeping a dictator up. We have contributed to a number of positive actions in a country that has had a very positive development but that has gradually tightened up political rights in recent years, and that is very worrying. We're going to deal with this, and of course we're going to have a cool attitude to it in all dialogue with Museveni and his people. But we're going to do it together with other countries, so that what we're doing will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e256	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first ine M. Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e259	The Council of State says that there is every cause for concern for the development of Uganda. There is a concern both Peter Skovholt Gitmark and I are fully sharing. However, there is also every possible cause for concern for other regimes in which Norway is heavily involved in the state of state aid. Ethiopia is such a regime. Both I and others from the Right have asked questions about earlier. However, the answer we are given suggests that the Council of States considers economic development to be so important that it can fully replace the need for political rights, such as those of the United States. freedom of expression and fundamental human rights. In the context of the 2011 budget, the Right and the Progress Party proposed a thorough review of the use of assistance to Ethiopia and Uganda, with a view to identifying any political abuse of aid resources. We are getting more and more disturbing reports that aid, including Norwegian aid, is 237 million. kr to Ethiopia for 2010, is being abused politically by a regime that wants to keep control. Then the question is, when will the Council of State consider the same for Ethiopia that he is now considering for Uganda?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e266	I take a very strong distance from the tendency to minimize economic and social progress. That's what brings people out of poverty, and makes people learn to read and write. To take Ethiopia as an example: when the current regime in Ethiopia came to power in the mid-1990s, reading and writing skills were down in the '20s. It's gone up dramatically. It's one of the countries in Africa that's had the greatest success in terms of people's ability to read and write, and it's one of the countries in Africa that's closest to reaching the UN's Millennium Goal. This is because Ethiopia has made great economic progress. This must not be devalued, because it is absolutely fundamental. But then we have to be able to see that political and economic development is not necessarily the same and that there are strong worrying features in the political development of Ethiopia. However, when the overall aid environment, including our closest allies, e.g. The United Kingdom and the United States, considering the situation, see it quite differently from the Norwegian Right. The British Conservative government has now chosen to make Ethiopia one of the most important stepping up countries for aid in Africa – that is the Right Sister Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e271	Peter N. Myhre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e274	I notice that the Council of State claims that the social and economic progress caused by the aid to Uganda does not help to keep Museveni in power. I think it's a reasoning that it's hard for us to understand. It is clear that Museveni is using the social and economic progress in Uganda to maintain his regime. When the Council of State considers that the budget support period is over, it is good, but that it should be channelled into other measures instead, will lead to a problem. We see now that Uganda is moving away from democracy. It is a systematic repression of minorities. The opposition encounters brutal violence and prisons, and the question then remains: How much is going to happen before Norway says no, now it is enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e279	Whatever the situation in a country, we will do our utmost to improve the economic and social standard of people living in extreme poverty, who may not know what to eat tomorrow, and who lack education and healthcare. But it is clear that in countries that are brutal dictatorships, we will be careful to do so in such a way that they can do so without the regime taking credit for it or winning it politically. I warn against this extreme simplification, as we now see, of the situation in Ethiopia and Uganda, and will remind you that the British Conservative Government, once they have taken over after Labour, has picked out five countries where they really want to escalate the aid. One of the five countries is Ethiopia. The reason for that, I think, is that they've seen the amazing economic and social progress Ethiopia has been in, and they think, as I do, that economic and social progress over time makes it more likely that human rights are respected, not less. We now have decades of experience in the world so that when you get a broader middle class, when you get economic and social progress, it becomes no less likely that human rights are respected, but much more, and I share that with the British conservatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e286	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e289	I think I'll start by saying that we who believe in assistance have an extra responsibility for the assistance we provide. Uganda is an amazing country in the heart of Africa, with enormous opportunities, if they had made it work. That's why the Christian People's Party is always committed to fighting for more assistance and better assistance, and maybe a shade more than SV we've been dedicated to turning the aid to Africa, to the very poorest, and perhaps even more to non-governmental organisations. But it is clear that to get a country on foot is dependent on getting a civil society, but one is also dependent on state authorities. Therefore, such questions are also a little difficult. There is now a report from the Riksrevision, a very crass report from the Riksrevision, for treatment in Stortinget, which clearly states that Norway has not been able to follow up the assistance that goes through the UN organisations. This is dramatic, because we have to be sure that aid has qualities and that it comes out. So my question is, how can it be that it's gone so wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e296	Norway has the most stringent standards for monitoring assistance. It's both the one we give directly, the one we give through voluntary organizations, and the one we give through the United Nations systems. But I'm in any discussion, at any time, about how we can improve those standards. I now allow myself at the end of this to do a little reflection: I think it is relatively unlikely that we will see in black Africa, that is, sub-Saharan Africa, political movements, and let what we have seen in Egypt. The two main reasons for this are firstly the lack of a broad middle class, as was the case in Egypt, and secondly the ethnic nature of politics in almost any country. Resistance to the regime, e.g. in Ethiopia, will almost certainly be ethnic in character, and thus very quickly create new difficulties that we do not fully understand. So I think there is a significant need for reflection on the question of how we promote democracy in countries where the nature of policy is essentially ethnic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e301	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e304	The fight to limit harmful climate change and fight absolute poverty is two of the global challenges of our time. I would therefore like to ask the question to one who has been given a special responsibility in the superclass, Erik Solheim, who is responsible for both the environment and development: The government and the Christian People's Party are in charge of a strong Norwegian commitment to these two issues. It's about a billion people who live on about $1 a day. Many lack clean water and live a life of malnutrition. The Christian People's Party and the government have been able to escalate Norwegian efforts for development and poverty reduction to about 1 pst. of our country's gross national income. We have been aware of a mandatory plan for international climate and forest activity, often called the rainforest setting. In short, the aim is to prevent deforestation and thus reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We need both these efforts both against climate change and against poverty. In the 2007 Bali Action Plan, this was entirely central. The increase in funding for climate action would be new and additional, not undermining the commitment to development cooperation. The same thing was in the 2008 climate agreement. Here, the government party assures that the climate effort will be added. Just before Easter, the government presented a new and exciting big message about climate and development. There is a lot of good here, but it also says when it comes to increasing climate: ‘The escalation will take place within the current assistance framework.’ So to remove every doubt, I would like to ask Solheim State Council for clarification: can the Council of State guarantee that the investment in climate, and the forestry effort, will come in addition to the real level we have for assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e320	It is rarely so easy to answer a question, for this question can be answered with just: yes. It should not be at the expense of aid or poverty reduction. Congratulations on the election as leader of the Christian People's Party. I have recorded that Knut Arild Hareide has had a series of freers lately, and very many – almost all said – political parties have made their hosts green at the Christian People's Party in recent days. Let me join them, because the reality is that the Christian People's Party is closest to the policies that I know are the new leader of the Christian People's Party at the heart, namely the environment and development, and which also appeared clearly in the article here. These are areas where the Christian People's Party is very close to the red-green government – the party is our leading partner in the Stortinget and in reality has only a dissenting view from our view in the shades. The Christian People's Party has also been a very important driver for us to get into 1 pst. It was a stepping-up that, not least Hilde Frafjord Johnsen contributed during the Bondevik government – I am very sure that it was not the Right that was the driving force of that escalation at the time – and that our government has now stepped up to 1 pst. It is a collective work that the Christian People's Party and the Red-Green Government have done, of which there is great respect. So if the Christian People's Party seriously believes that environmental and development issues are among the core issues of the party, it is perfectly obvious that it is the Red-Green and not the Right and the Advance Party – above all the Advance Party – that are natural partners. So back to the question, because it also has a serious and important side. There are no international rules today on how to define so-called additionality, i.e. how climate action should come to the top of health, education, road construction and other important assistance measures. I think it's unlikely that we'll get an international definition of it in the near future. Norway will work for it, but we have to do it in a way that has a broad international understanding. But what is absolutely certain is that all Norway is doing is far, far from what is being accepted internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e329	Then Knut Arild Hareide gets the opportunity to answer a follow-up question, possibly to answer the proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e332	I have never known myself as attractive as this week. But I want to say that this is a core area of the Christian People's Party. When it says that one should take this within the current aid framework, that is exactly what was at the heart of the discussion of the climate agreement and a bet. We are content to bet on the climate – and the climate challenges are created by the world’s rich, and then it cannot be the world’s poor to take the burden and the bill for it. I've heard the Solheim State Council refer to the Conservative Government of the United Kingdom. They do not take this within the current aid framework. It has been a government that has managed to cut and cut – and then they have actually left the aid behind. It's been one of the areas they've deliberately protected. That's what I challenge. When it says ‘within the current’ assistance framework, there is a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e339	No, that's not a change. It is entirely in line with what we said in the climate agreement, namely that we should not take away health and education – all other important aid purposes – but we should take off the increase in aid. It is always dangerous to do, but I dare to say that it is very, very likely that in the budget that will be presented to the Stortingen for the autumn, there will be an increase in the forestry effort – not at the expense of any other aid, but within the increase in Norwegian aid that we are going to see, not least because oil prices drive a lot of money into Norway. We make a lot of money, and we should spend it responsibly, use some of our surplus to both take care of the rainforest and reduce climate emissions for people and the world's poor. Finally, let me say that investing in the conservation of rainforest is an extremely important measure of poverty. It is the poorest that are most affected by climate change. Poor people live in all the world's rain forests, and taking care of the natural environment is fundamental to the world's poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e346	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e349	Combating harmful climate change and combating absolute poverty are two of the greatest challenges of our time. In 2007, the government was pressurised to join the rainforest campaign so that one could launch it at the climate summit in Bali. Nothing is better than when the opposition and environmental organisations get a pass. However, the issue is whether the oil fund is Norway’s most powerful contribution to influencing the global development of our rain forests. The oil fund invests, inter alia: in durum wheat mills in the Congo, in oil companies in the Amazon, in lard mills in Brazil and in palm oil plantations in Indonesia. We know that this is part of destroying the rainforest. My question to the Council of State will then be if the Norwegian state through the oil fund is countering the government and the Climate Fund's rainforest assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e354	Let me say, to continue with the proposal, not to say the clinic with the Christian People's Party, that it was the red-green, Christian People's Party and some other parties that ran through the Norwegian rainforest campaign. The progress party was on the sideline of that question as well. Now you have the Right National Meeting for the weekend. I see no requirement, at least not in what is in the material in front of the Right National Meeting now, that the Right shall maintain the 1 pst.-aid that the Red-Green and Christian People's Party together have fought. We all know what the Progress Party stands for in these questions, so there is no natural alliance partner for the Christian People's Party if you are genuinely concerned with development and environmental issues. As far as the oil fund is concerned, that question does not go under my mind, but we have made an ethical advice in the oil fund – I think it was also a cooperation project between the Christian People's Party and us red-green – that will evaluate all these questions. And we've pulled the oil fund out of some projects, precisely because of the criticism that investment can be unethical from an environmental point of view, even in relation to rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e361	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e364	It's an interesting debate the Council of States is trying to go up when he wants to smear with the Christian People's Party rather than answer the real issues he's being challenged to. In relation to the round we had with Alcoa and the use of gas in Norway, it is also worth noting that this government thinks it is entirely right that Norwegian state-owned companies invest in CO2 emissions abroad, but do not allow it in Norway. It is about double standards and hypocrisy and not about what is good climate policy in practice. It was also a fact that the Progress Party was never invited to negotiate a climate in Stortinget because the government did not want us to join. But we have said that we support the rainforest work, given that one manages to do it without the money going into the pockets of corrupt leaders, but that one actually achieves the goals. Measure is the most important to measure the results in relation to. Another concrete project in Norway is Ironman. Then we can look at the global challenge again. Ironman can be built in Sweden based on imported coal power, or it can be built in Norway based on gas power. If you build in Norway, you cut the CO2 emissions by 70 pst. Governments say no. Is that good, global climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e381	I have answered very clearly all the questions that have been asked by the Christian People's Party, and also made a friendly and pleasant cooperation statement because we have a lot to work together on. The Progress Party has, through its contribution before today – a previous question, but all related to policy – effectively declared itself out of a future climate settlement for all practical purposes. I take it for granted that a future climate settlement will be based on the climate agreement Stortinget has already concluded. It's impossible to imagine that with the climate agreement we have today, you should be able to build in Hammerfest, on Fränna or a number of other places, without cleaning. That sum is definitely not going up unless the Progress Party is willing to take the bill for increased CO2 emissions in e.g. Hammerfest and place it in other Norwegian industry, shut down other Norwegian industry, ask Norwegian drivers to pay it, or do other measures that will then be very unpopular and that the Progress Party never dares to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e391	But the question was about global...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e397	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e400	In these leisure times, I find it natural to say that it was right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which was the driving force behind the climate agreement, which is now the environmental policy on which today's government and large parts of the Great Britain are based. The superstructure for the question is that 20 pst. the population of the world lives in absolute poverty. Climate change is going to hit them the hardest. For the Right, our policy is crystal clear, even though the Council of State is trying to make it the opposite. We want and will, regardless of government and constellations, to grant significant funds both for aid and for climate change. However, where the Right and Today's Governmental Parties do not, is relative to power measurement and not least to the requirements that are imposed. Let me use an example that I think is absolutely central. We're totally dependent on the money for the logging. How does the government follow up just that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e407	Let me say that I fully agree with the Right that the most important thing is how you spend money, not exactly what level you have. I would also recommend the Right to use that logic when complaining about budgets in a number of other areas, where you get the impression that just giving money for a purpose, whether it's road construction, defence or whatever, will solve the problem itself. It's always the most important way to spend the money. But having this 1 pst. goal, as a Christian People's Party and also my party, SV, with respect to reporting, has been a driving force to achieve, has been a powerful breaker. For the combination of spending the money correctly and getting it up, we would never have been able to make a pass for politics without the 1 pst goal. It is a bit of the same with the Cultural Promise, which my two colleagues here have been pushing forward. Without the cultural promise, we would never have made it clear year by year to drive forward more money wisely spent on culture. The score by 1 pst. is not a magic formula, but it is the political drive to get Norwegian aid up. Then I'm a little frightened that the Right, at least in what's available at their national meeting now, doesn't seem to have any clear feeling that you're going to keep this level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e412	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e415	The left simply asks the government to be a little clearer in defining what climate assistance is, and what a putter in the Norwegian aid budget. What's good for the climate is necessarily not what's best for development and poverty, which many people have been involved in here. One example is Tanzania. There it might be faster to become a democracy, without the logging, but with increased support for civil and political rights. Tanzania, of course, is just an example. Does the Council agree with the Left that there may be a conflict of objectives between the use of money on climate and money on traditional assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e424	Let me first again warn against slightly simplified images of the situation in some African countries. Now we started with Uganda and Ethiopia, and now we continue with Tanzania. Tanzania is quite far on the way to a one-party state, but now had for the first time its free choice with real competition and is one of Africa's most open societies in many ways. If Tanzania, in addition to Uganda and Ethiopia, does not pass the threshold, there are not many countries in Africa again that we will be able to characterize as so democratic that they meet our standards – perhaps Ghana, but it is, after all, one of 56 countries. If we want the African continent to rise, I think we need to reflect more nuancedly around democracy in Africa. On the issue of this, the poorest are the most affected by environmental damage, not the richest. So helping to sort out the environment is really genuine and real poverty reduction. Helping poor people in the rainforest to take care of the rainforest must be just as good as helping poor people on a rice field or poor people on a savannah to take care of their natural environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e431	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e434	Then I would like to change the theme altogether, but to a theme that is very important to the growing generation. As everyone knows, Norway is a small country, but we are a big sports nation. We've been spoiled with big stars like Petter Northug, Marit Bjørgen, handballers, John Carew, Aksel Lund Svindal, Magnus Carlsen – to name a few. But there are very many others. But it's not results that come of itself. Nor is there any guarantee that this will continue if we do not now take care of it and facilitate it. The talents out there must be given the opportunity to flourish in the future. The small country of Norway has a lot to thank our sports heroes and heroes for. The value of advertising and profiling that gives us is incredibly important both for our own self-esteem and patriotism and for international tourism and reputation. There is a small rush over Norway today – a hockey rush. Norway has played in the World Cup in ice hockey, and against all odds – little David’s fight against Goliath – the hockey boys managed to beat big brother and many times world champion Sweden. It's a sports performance that shook the whole world of sports – and we almost managed to beat the United States. Hockey is one of the world's largest winter sports, and the world's sixth largest sports. It says something about the achievements achieved by the national team in recent years. So we like to compare ourselves to Sweden. Today we have 41 ice-creams and 3 artificial ice-creams in Norway. If we compare ourselves to Sweden, the numbers are gloomy, because it is said that only in Stockholm there are more ice halls than Norway has together. So my question goes to the Minister of Culture: does the Council of State agree with the Progress Party that we have too few ice-creams in Norway, and will she, in the sports message that hopefully soon comes, facilitate and ensure that we get more ice-creams?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e449	It is right that the representative Horne points out that we have fewer ice halls in Norway than, among other things. in our neighbouring country Sweden. This may be one of the reasons why Sweden has traditionally recruited more people in hockey than we have done in Norway. In view of this, Norwegian achievements are extra good, given that fewer children and young people are recruited into hockey. I also agree that this is something we should look at in particular. These are halls that often require extra resources, and therefore we will look at – in the context of sport – whether these are halls that should be given special priority. What is important in Norwegian sport policy is that it is sport that has a great deal of authority over the drugs. There is certainly no other country where more responsibility for sport has been delegated even in prioritising sports facilities. However, we have some national programmes such as: is that we are paying special attention to sports facilities where there are many people living, and where there is an undercoverage of facilities. We've also looked at ice-creams in this context. So this is a question that I'll go into more detail in the sports message. I am, like the representative Horne, absolutely concerned with the hockey halls in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e456	That was an uplifting answer. And then we'll see what it brings. However, what is important is that Norway facilitates the provision of a wide range of services. Because we know that there is an incredible amount of importance in the middle of the world in Norway — including in these ice halls. It's high time we got a promise that provides recruitment, sports fun and a development across the country, not just in the big cities. However, pending the sports message, the Progress Party believes that this government could do much more to facilitate the sport. A much better VAT compensation could have been provided for voluntary teams and organisations, and much more could have been provided for public and private cooperation in the construction of new facilities. So my second question to the Council of State – because she hasn't said anything about when this sports message comes – is: What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure the universality that we are so dependent on in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e465	The best thing we can do to ensure breadth in Norway is to give more money to the local sports teams. That's why, within Norsk Tipping, we have introduced a grass root fraction, which is going to give more money locally. In addition, we have introduced a VAT compensation scheme that provides a lot of money for sports throughout Norway. This has been very well received, and we're going over the period of 1.2 billion. kr to various sports teams through the VAT compensation scheme. In addition, we changed the key when we were in opposition, in cooperation with the Progress Party, between 2001 and 2005, and we also want to have a discussion about changing the key in this sport message. It's quite obvious that there's a lot of expectations in sports Norway. The Labour Party has taken decisions at our national meeting, which involves more sport while maintaining the cultural promise. We will discuss this with our government partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e473	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first from Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e476	I have a poem for the Council of State: «A flower meadow of talents Works to get to the Buttons of the Council of State I really hope she will From the many buds of width We get our heroes and sports stops» Let me say this: I am pleased with the feedback the Council gave to the representative Horne by promising sports halls and new opportunities for sports Norway. At the same time, I think it is important to address the challenge of law enforcement, which the municipalities and the sports community have around the country. The Swedish hockey team had another chance. Now the Council of State has the opportunity to signal both funding and how to solve challenges in municipalities, with ice-creams and sports facilities when providing the alert. So something more profound around it had been appreciated by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e498	The first thing that sport Norway appreciates is that we have a responsible gambling policy that, compared with other countries, creates far fewer gambling addicts. The second is that this game monopoly provides a fantastic funding basis for sport. And that's this game monopoly Progress Party will take a settlement with it. That's why there are a lot of people from sport who fear that the Progress Party will come into power, and that it can lead to a weaker funding of sport. So I want to say that the gambling monopoly is important for financing Norwegian sport. So I think the most important thing we can do is look at changes in the key, which gives more to sport while we're betting on maintaining the cultural promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e505	It was a shame I couldn't flatter myself with the poem, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e510	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e513	I should probably sign off with a song, but I'll save you for it! I would like to point to a major challenge that is led by this issue, namely that we have a huge lag in sports facilities in general. It's not just about hockey halls, which are big and precious things, but we have this problem within many sports. We also have it on the cultural side, with a major challenge on cultural construction. In short, there are many, many billions of dollars that need to be invested if we're going to be able to clean this up. Today, drugs are an important part, not to say the key to their development. Typing agents are today designed so that they do not inspire very many partners in installations. We have examples around Norway today that there are projects with partners, both public and private. Will the Council of State be able to work on a system that rewards projects funded by several sources?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e524	Basically, I'm skeptical of such a thought. Because then it will be that those who have private sponsors will sneeze in the queue ahead of the others. That's why I want to be very strong on what's the key to the distribution, namely that the state through the funds contributes a third. So the sports teams travel a third – whether they do it through sponsors or others, they get to decide for themselves – and then the municipality has to contribute a third. I think it's a good distribution key. If I don't think the tippers will be distributed to someone who already has a lot of money. Then I also want to say that I'm a little bit surprised at the Olemic Thommess who now has a huge concern for sports. When we promoted our proposal at the National Labour Party meeting, Olemic Thommess was against this proposal and felt that it was going to affect culture. But what's amazing about the decision that we made at our national meeting is that it both maintains high ambitions in cultural policy and facilitates a sporting initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e531	Then we move on to the next, and last, main questions, from the representative Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e534	My question goes to the Council of State Erik Solheim. In the evening post on 26 April we could read about the only windmill on Hardangervidda, which stands on Heinseter, which now has to be demolished after 11 years. The effect of the mill is that the tourist cabin has saved 10,000 liters of diesel a year and very much transport of diesel by belt car through vulnerable terrain. The operations at Heinseter asked for a meeting with the Minister for the Environment or the State Secretary on 4 February. The request is still under assessment in the department, three months later. The Ministry of the Environment said yes to experimental operations for 10 years. The attempt was successful. The nation today says that this refusal “appears as a molbo story about the eects of environmental bureaucracy to press through its particular view of the protection of Norwegian nature”. I wouldn't call it a molbo policy, it would be unparliamentary, but SV policy is completely comprehensive, from my point of view. The question to the State Council is why the Ministry of the Environment will not extend the permit to operate environmentally at Hardangervidda. In order to operate with this type of bureaucratic tile nailing, the Directorate for Nature Management has increased the number of employees by 55 pst. since 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e547	I am pleased that Nikolai Astrup addresses this question, so that I can answer it and give some reflections. I agree that it has taken quite an unreasonable time to answer this question. This is due to errors in the Ministry of the Environment, and I want to tell Heinzeter, and also here, that this is not how we are going to work. I did not even notice this matter until a very short time ago, and I will take care of it and see if there is a solution to it. The media has given one presentation of the case. It is always nice when the Right uses the Nations as a witness of truth; there are new, positive alliances in Norwegian politics! But leave it alone. What is presented by those who are then critical of this windmill is that it has not lived up to expectations in any way. So it's just, according to the information I've been given, it's delivered a small part of the current that was, so that you've actually got windmills and almost the same use of fossil fuels as before. But instead of wondering about it, I'm going to deal with it, and we're going to come up with a decision in the near future. Of course, I will also be happy to meet these people who are concerned about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e558	The President did not realize that it was the representative's desire to get specific proceedings here, but that it was more the principle of the issue that was important. This may require follow-up questions, however, and this will give the representative Astrup the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e562	If the Ministry of the Environment has made a mistake, you might want to consider hiring a few more people. That's how you solve most of the problems under Solheim State Council, it looks like. And there is no doubt that the environmental bureaucracy has made its appearance under this government, while we are seeing more and more of these kinds of decisions, which appear incomprehensible to people out there. The question to the Council of State could then be whether he agrees that this type of bureaucratic tile nailing can undermine the trust in the nature protection policy pursued by the government. And then to go to the specific matter: I think it is special that the Council of State says that 10,000 liters of saved diesel this year should not make any difference. This is clearly a small matter, but here the Council of State – even if he is not to deal with this in this Chamber – should also be able to give a clear signal that this should be cleaned up, and that this mill must be allowed to stand where it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e571	To the matter: I always follow the principle that I first get into the matter and then come to a conclusion, and I will do so in this case. A rapid response shall be given to it, including where appropriate in the form of letters to the representatives, or in any other way to inform the Storting, if desired, in addition to the media. Then there has been a deliberate policy – here it is obvious that the Right differs from the Red-Greens – to expand environmental management in Norway, because environmental management is needed as a strong counter-power to very many other special interest groups, strong economic power centres, but also, with all due respect, in relation to other departments that are set to take care of other interests. The fact that the Right criticises it, says something about the ever-increasing distance that unfortunately becomes between the Right and the parties in this room that are genuinely concerned with environmental policy, because a must not have thorough environmental management and built up powerful non-human environmental management. Then there is a problem in environmental management, as in all other administrations, to make sure that it is managed overall, and not tile nailing in small amounts. In a number of cases I have tried to intervene to prevent it, and there are clear signals I give every day to everyone: we are not going to have control in the small, we are going to have control in the large area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e580	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e583	I am pleased that the Council of State wants to focus on governance at large and not on governance at a small level, because we on the Right are concerned that we get good results in our environmental policy, and we are afraid of all the practices that are involved and undermine the trust of environmental authorities. It is clear that the kind of tile nailing that the council itself says this case with the windmills at Hardangervidda is, in the Right's opinion, a part of undermining the trust of the environmental authorities. The fact that one has significantly increased the number of employees within the remit of the Minister for the Environment requires management in relation to performance. Will the Council of State ensure that all these people, including in the Directorate for Nature Management, really deal with the big questions, and not the tile nail?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e590	The answer to the last question is that I give a very clear political signal about it in everyone's meetings, and here. This is not a particular issue for environmental management. It's a general governance problem, which also the Right has had when they've been in government, that we politicians want to control the overall lines. Then we want the case handlers who meet the customers – the people out there – to be able to show flexibility in their handling them. I have to say that the Right really came with me now, that's a basic compliment to the Red-Green Government, and, frankly, to me. Because what they're saying is that we've got good budgets, with a huge growth in the number of people working on these questions. And environmental management is about people. There are two things that are fundamental when environmental management comes forward: one is knowledge-based management, and the other is market regulation. You don't win without people doing this. The fact that you've managed to strengthen these floors over time, I take as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e597	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e600	Now I don't think it's a quality sign or a success criterion to count how many bureaucrats you have. It's more about what an actually achieves. In these predatory times, it would have been more interesting to see if one could have a target for bureaucracy, instead of trying to have the most of them. But what's my question is the angle that the Council of State had in its first answer, that one evaluated it so that it wasn't saved enough diesel for one to maintain that windmill. It is an assessment that, at my discretion, in that case the person behind the windmill should have done, and not a bureaucracy. For it is those who have built it, who also have to take costs and see the benefits against savings on diesel. In addition, they see savings in the transport of diesel and, where appropriate, CO2 emissions — even if there is a very small part of this issue. Would the Council of State rather stress that one is in favour of such measures, as long as it is financed by private capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e612	Now we must not forget the starting point: this is a windmill in the middle of Hardangervidda National Park, in an area where we do not initially want to facilitate many new measures of this kind. But this windmill was accepted because its utility was greater than its adverse effects. I assume that no one wants many wind turbines inside Norway's national parks. At least it would be a whole new step. Then you have to accept it, it has to be because the gain from it is justifiable. That's the question I'm going to be looking at in the very near future. Then again, I have to remember that having success in the field of the environment is always up against other interests in society. The Progress Party never has restrictions on bringing new money into other areas of society. So it's very harmful in the environmental field that you look at people. But it is people and their knowledge — and regulation of markets, which also requires people — that bring environmental issues forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e619	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e631	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen of the Minister of Knowledge, has been withdrawn. Question 2, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Knowledge, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 11, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 7, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e655	This question has been withdrawn. The first question to be answered is then question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e664	The question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. ‘Refer to written question No. 246 for 2010-2011 on Norwegian support for the establishment of a Commission to investigate possible war crimes in Burma. It is now known that Denmark and Latvia are among the countries that will support such an investigation commission. It is also known that Aung San Suu Kyi and her party support the initiative. Is the government open to support such a Commission and thus contribute to the necessary wide international support?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e678	The proposal to consider a Commission to investigate possible war crimes in Burma was made in a report by the UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation in Burma, Tomás Quintana. In order to have legitimacy and impact, such an audit commission must build its work on broad consensus. It is likely that a decision by the UN Security Council will be necessary, not least since the Burmese authorities themselves will not facilitate a Commission of Inquiry. This was also a perspective I shared with the representative in the answer to the written question. The reactions to Quintana’s proposal show that there is insufficient support to achieve this. This is a regrettable reality, and I can assure you that Norway would have given its support to a proposal that could bring together international actors. In December the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution stressing the responsibility of the authorities to investigate and prosecute serious crimes. The Special Rapporteur was not referred to. This illustrates the challenge of bringing the international community together on the right instruments for improving the human rights situation in Burma. A very important question will thus be whether there are other opportunities to address the serious challenges that Quintana points to through its proposal. Among other things, Burmese military immunity for abuses in conflict areas is extended and very much remains in the follow-up of human rights obligations by Burmese authorities. Norway will continue to address this issue, both in conversations with Burmese authorities and in the relevant human rights forums. We will also have a close dialogue with the democratic forces within Burma on how best to respond to the challenges of human rights. I think we should now try to get into dialogue with the new government of Burma. This is a view of several other countries sharing. The EU has recently decided to extend its sanctions regime but removes the visa ban for those government members who are unrelated to the military. This includes the country's foreign minister. At the same time, the ban on high-level visits from the EU to Burma is repealed. These are constructive contact-making measures, and Norway has joined the adjusted common position. These changes can lead to increased contact between Burma and European countries, which we hope can have positive ring-effects. Despite the fact that last November's elections were not free or fair, Burma, by moving to a more civil regime, has undergone the greatest political changes it has seen in 20 years. We're not going to be naive or have great hopes for political changes in Burma, but I think it's right now to work to make the international community more fit in, among other things. by strengthening UN engagement within the country. This requires active work on behalf of Burmese authorities and as comprehensive an international approach as possible. These changes in the EU’s common position reflect the need for more countries to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e695	I thank you for the answer, and I would like to say that I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that a dialogue with the regime in Burma will be an important part of Norway's and the international community's approach to Burma. The question is, on what basis should this dialogue be conducted? The Minister of Foreign Affairs wrote last January that the Norwegian Government is deeply concerned about the human rights situation in Burma. This Quintana report also demonstrates this quite clearly. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When he refers to the lack of international support for a Commission, it is precisely because, among other things, Norway has not been involved and has actively supported such a Commission. Don't you bite yourself in the tail with that kind of argument?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e702	It is true that if Norway is to use the power to commit itself to a proposal that we, in isolation, seem to be positive, we need to look at what is the landscape, and the possibilities to get an impact on it. It is not that Norway engages in all its limited energy – because we are a small country – in all the areas where we ideally mean something. We have to pick out the areas where we think we can get through. So this is a field where we think there's little chance of getting through, and then we're going to use our forces in terms of the goals that I think the representative and I share in relation to Burma, in a different way. With regard to the basis for dialogue, I believe that the international community has drawn up those frameworks quite well. It is about respect for universal human rights, respect for the role of the opposition, demands that fair elections be held, etc. I don't want to say in any way that Burma has come significant steps towards it, but it's now a movement and an opening. So without neglecting the requirements, we should use the openings we have to get our vision out. That is the position of the European Union. We're supporting it. Norway, too, will use this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e711	We clearly share the fundamental objectives and wish for the development of Burma in terms of democracy and human rights. I am also aware of Norway's limited resources, but we are talking about one of the most brutal regimes we have to deal with in the world, with gross violations of human rights, and where, despite a choice and transition to civil rule, we have no indication that the human rights situation has improved. When you want to open up even more dialogue, it becomes all the more important to be clear that there are human rights that are the platform for dialogue and that are the goal. That is where a commission of inquiry could be an important instrument. What, then, has been misunderstood by the 15 Western countries that have so far supported the Commission of Inquiry? It is Denmark and Latvia that have joined the demand since the last foreign minister answered the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e720	I will not in any way accuse those countries of having misunderstood anything. As I said, Norway has understanding and respect for the proposal made by the special representative. But we think that when we read the terrain, we don't think that 15 Western countries are behind it, and not a sixteenth. It's about what reactions this gets in broad groups outside the Western world. We have seen for a long time that there has been quite a consensus on sanctions and measures from Western countries, from Europe. At the same time, we have noted that the impact of these sanctions is very limited in Burma, because they have a wide range of other countries with which they can act and cooperate. That's why we think it's a very important strategy to use the forces in the UN General Assembly against other groups in order to get real pressure on that regime. So if there are 16 or 17 countries that are going to support this requirement, which we, in isolation, believe is a reasonable proposal, we don't think it's going to get us any closer. We must now work in the various contact groups there, support the UN and have contacts with Burma's neighbours and other regional groupings in order to maintain pressure on the regime in Burma.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e731	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In the last year, negotiations have taken place within the United Nations on a new additional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child which, in certain cases, will allow access to appeals against the Convention to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. Norway has expressed scepticism for this historic strengthening of children’s rights. The proposal will be presented to the UN Human Rights Council in June, where Norway is a member. Will Norway support the proposal for a complaint mechanism within the UN Human Rights Council, and what significance will such support have for Norwegian ratification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e740	The work to strengthen human rights is central to the government and has broad support in the Stortinget. Promoting children’s rights is a high priority both nationally and internationally. The government’s commitment makes important contributions to increasing the international legal protection of children. The position of children is an important component of much of the work we do in foreign and development policy. Norway is among the few countries in the world which have incorporated the Children’s Convention into national law. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child thus has a strong position in Norwegian law, and has been given priority in cases of contravention of Norwegian law. This means that the reality of the Children’s Convention for Norwegian citizens is that it is given a stronger position and gives stronger rights than in hardly any other country. The negotiations that have recently taken place in the UN Human Rights Council on a new additional protocol to the Children's Convention were concluded on 16 February this year. It is true that Norway took a skeptical view during these negotiations on the individual complaint scheme. On the Norwegian side, we have argued that several of the provisions of these conventions are broad and meaningful, and can be implemented in different ways and with different instruments, to which there is reason to raise questions of principle. A Norwegian accession to the appeal mechanism could lead to Norway’s implementation of the Children’s Convention, which may also affect legislative and budgetary decisions taken by Norwegian elected representatives. At the same time, it has been important for us during the negotiations not to oppose any agreement among the United Nations Member States on the drafting of such an additional protocol. However, we believe that there is a basis for asking critical questions about committing Norway to such a system. During the next few weeks, the Government will decide on the position of Norway in the context of the decision of the appeal mechanism expected to take place at the UN Human Rights Council in June. We haven't finished that assessment, so I can't give a clear answer to that today, but we're following that work on an ongoing basis. The issue of a Norwegian ratification of the Individual Complaints Scheme to the Children's Convention will then be the subject of a separate process. This can only take place after any final decision establishing the Additional Protocol which will take place at the UN General Assembly for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e753	I thank you for your answer. I understand that there are still assessments of this. The Foreign Minister and I fully share the view of children's rights and the importance of just that. So I think I'll refrain from any more follow-up questions, and rather come back on a later occasion when the government is nearer to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e758	I look forward to that. We're also open to discuss this. These are important, fundamental questions. Some of them are difficult. Let me just dwell on the fact that from the Norwegian side we are very concerned about being in the front to ensure children's rights in the law and in practical policy. Some have interpreted the questions we have asked about these individual complaints schemes as that Norway should question its obligations. I can strongly confirm that is not the case. As I said, we have incorporated the Children's Convention and many of the universal human rights into Norwegian law, which gives Norwegian citizens rights and security for those who have very few other countries. However, we also believe that Norway, with its credibility in this, should be able to ask some critical questions about how new schemes will work, both in principle and in practice. That's what we've done, but we're going to make an individual assessment of this when it comes to decision. I look forward to both answering questions and discussing with the representative Skovholt Gitmark and others as it approaches.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e771	‘15. The Chief of Defence, on the recommendation of the Chief Protection Officer of the Defense, decided that any use of so-called environmental ammunition should be stopped immediately. It has been known for several years that the use of this type of ammunition is potentially harmful to the health of the soldiers, and its properties are lower than normal lead-containing ammunition. Nevertheless, the use of lead-free ammunition has continued. Does the Council of State now take political responsibility for the fact that this scandal has developed far beyond what was necessary?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e778	The defence used lead-free ammunition in 2004. During the autumn of 2008, the Defence introduced the new HK416 automatic rifle. It was only after large-scale use of this rifle by people with lead-free ammunition that health problems were reported. Following the introduction of measures and restrictions on the use of ammunition by the Defence in March 2009, health problems were still reported, albeit to a reduced extent. On 14 April of this year, lead-free ammunition was temporarily blocked for use. The reason for this was a recent incident report, in which a number of people experienced health problems. The defence will send the matter to the Labour Inspectorate for assessment. The lead-free ammunition has no lower characteristics than the lead-containing. It meets the requirements of precision and range. The same requirements apply also to leaded ammunition. However, lead-containing ammunition has clear environmental and health disadvantages. On this basis, the Defence Research Institute recommends the continued use of lead-free ammunition, subject to the restrictions mentioned earlier. Therefore, a test series with new lead-free ammunition with lower emissions of gases is in use for operations-specific training and further testing. However, the defence has, for the purpose of preparedness, acquired a limited quantity of leaded ammunition. Due to the temporary blocking of the use of lead-free ammunition, the Defence Manager may allow the use of lead-containing ammunition, if operational considerations so require. We agree that in that case this will be a temporary and short-term solution. A durable and good solution we will only have when a type of lead-free ammunition that meets health, environmental and safety requirements has been developed. I take the health complaints reports very seriously, and I have assured myself that these are being followed up. The defence has, since the problems arose, implemented both short-term and long-term measures. The Defence Manager has kept me constantly informed. The situation is demanding, but I trust that a lasting and good solution will be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e791	The Chief Protection Officer of the Army, Thomas S. Hansen, said that the soldiers are tired of being used as test rabbits. This is a problem that has been known for many years. The health of the soldiers has been extensive, and that has led to some restrictions that make it even smaller in the army than you initially do, and you shoot too little. This has led to shooting under completely different conditions and conditions than what you do in the field, which means that the training is generally getting worse. So when the FFI recommends using the unleaded ammunition with the restrictions that are, it means that the government accepts that you get a worse training for the soldiers, and that you shoot less than you really should. Can the Council of State guarantee that a new type of so-called environmental ammunition will not be introduced until it is absolutely certain that the soldiers will not suffer health problems and that the ammunition has the same characteristics as it needs to perform good and accurate shooting?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e798	What I can assure you is that it is working systematically to get a lead-free ammunition in place that does not cause health problems. A number of measures have also been taken since health problems were clarified. Although some systemic reports were initially reported, a number of measures have been taken since the FFI report in May 2009. I don't see it as a good alternative to go back to lead ammunition. We've discussed that in this room before. And large allied countries are working on this with the aim of moving to lead-free ammunition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e803	I have asked a number of questions about this in Stortinget over a long time, and this has not led to any change or improvement. On 9 March of this year, the Council of State said that ‘remaining ammunition is preferable neither to health nor to the environment, and it is not appropriate to replace today’s ammunition’. So that means it was just stopped one month later because the primary defense officer in the Army and the chief defense officer in the Defense, along with the chief defense officer, put his foot down. But that also means that I interpret the Council of State there now that it is not appropriate to continue with normal lead-containing ammunition, and that must mean that if you do not find a satisfactory type of so-called environmental ammunition, you will still go to environmental ammunition instead of continuing with lead-containing ammunition?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e810	Leaded ammunition has environmental consequences in terms of pollution in nature, as well as health risks. The defence has put a considerable effort into cleaning up several firing ranges for environmental pollutants. With regard to the health risk, this is a health risk where lead consumed by the shooter is released during shooting. Therefore, significant efforts are being made to produce lead-free ammunition with less release of harmful substances than today’s lead-free ammunition and at the same time more environmentally friendly than lead-containing ammunition. The defence currently has a certain stock of lead-containing ammunition in standby mode, which may be used if operational requirements so require. But the long-term, good solution must be lead-free ammunition, without health problems, and that also meets the operational requirements, as today's lead-free ammunition does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e817	Since the state councillor Tora Aasland just entered the hall, we can move on to question No. 6, from the representative Svein Harberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e824	I will then ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: «Coordination of admission shows positive increase in recruitment to teacher training. The number of students has increased significantly in recent years. It is known from most studies that rejection and re-election occur to a large extent during the first years of study. I expect the Council of State to follow closely the level of implementation and the level of character of the teacher students. It is now important to ensure that increased intake of students also results in a corresponding increase in teachers who have completed their education. Does the Council of State see trends that confirm that this is the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e833	It is very gratifying that the search for teacher training has increased for each year in the last years, combined with more than 50 pst. since 2008. The increased search has resulted in an estimated 30 pst admission to teacher training in 2010. higher than in 2008, so there is a very happy development when we want to have more as teachers. If this increase is going to give a corresponding growth in candidate numbers, it's too early to say anything about it. – Sorry, President, I have to get some water because of the voice. – Although several start teacher studies, there is currently no evidence that there is a greater degree of non-response and re-election than in the past. In the higher education statistics database, cross-border statistics on implementation according to the agreed training plan show a continuous positive development for all teacher training courses in the last five years. This statistic shows how many people are doing at the time they're actually going to use. I can confirm that the degree of implementation and the results of the candidates are of the utmost interest and are followed closely. Within the new comprehensive school teacher education, this is the aspect that the Follow-up Group on teacher training reform will examine and analyse. The Follow-up Group, appointed for a five-year period, will submit annual reports to the Ministry of Knowledge. We also have very good contact with this follow-up group. The degree of implementation of the studies is also followed up very closely by the annual management meetings with our universities and colleges. Where the figures suggest poor implementation, institutions are asked to report on what they do to improve the situation in subsequent years, and this in turn will be followed up in the next meeting. A development project has also been launched, the so-called student mobility project, aimed at providing better knowledge of the student’s educational pathways, including data on switching between places of study. Printouts suggest that Norwegian school will need an increased number of teachers. I can therefore assure the representative Harberg that we have a common desire to ensure the quality and flow of teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e846	Compassion with the council, who came a little quickly into the hall and got it in his throat, but the answer was at least clear and okay anyway. What I want with this question is to have pressure on the follow-up of the new teacher training. Based on what I have examined until now, it may look as if the drop-off occurred in the first year, which is probably approx. 10 pst., isn't much smaller than what we had in the old general school. There are actually many of the years ended up with about 30 pst. non-response. We probably agree that both of them are too big. What's exciting to see is that one place where there's a marked deviation from the drop-out rate is Tromsø – where they have a slightly different race, where they have master education, and where the drop-out is actually only half of what we see in the other places. Will the Council of State do something special about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e853	I thank you for your concern. It's not the matter I'm in the throat. The thing is very good. That was more the speed of my entry into the hall. But back to the question from Harberg. It's clear that this year we see a very exciting increase in the number of students who are just applying for the five-year master's degree. When the Stortinget accepted teacher training, it was decided that a certain number of places should be allocated to it. We are also following that development very closely. Nevertheless, the primary school teacher training we launched last year is initially four years old. It's also a provision that the Storting has made. What's new about the past is that we have this follow-up group. We therefore have a much better basis for following up at those institutions where it would prove to be undesirable non-response. It's a much better situation for me as well as for the department than we've been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e860	It is true that there is now a four-year education going on, but if the Council of State and her party change a little direction, there is at least a majority in the United Kingdom to have a five-year master's degree. I have noticed the follow-up group, which has stated that it is important that we now start work to clarify alternatives. It could be an optional fifth year, i.e. master degree, or it could be mandatory. I understand that it is difficult so early in the new teacher training to draw conclusions, both on implementation and other things, but when will the Council of State start working to look at the alternatives, look at how a person might have a five-year education? What grip will she do to be in front if one sees that this is the good solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e869	Of course, I am dealing with what the Stortinget has decided, and the Stortinget has deliberately opened up so that we will have a certain number of students also at the five-year education. But it is very important to remember that the new primary school teacher education has given new content to the four years that it actually lasts. We've changed a lot, both in practice, in the field of pedagogics, and in the case of having two races. My advice will be – also because we need more teachers quite quickly – that we do not now extend, but that we see how the four years go by with the education we have now started to improve. Of course, we will always have both the technical and political assessments of whether this is something that is going to last a long time. But in this round, what we've decided – what the Storting has decided – is what I'm following up on. I have great faith that we get many good new teachers with four - year - old teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e878	The President will note that it may be an advantage to enter the Chamber at least one minute before going to the Chair. Could she do better than that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e885	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e888	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘Many sheep are soon to be released on pasture, such as: in Stange municipality in Hedmark. There is now a radio-labelled wolf. This grazing area is in the green zone. In order to avoid the animal tragedy we used to have in Ringsaker municipality in connection with Galven-Tispa, what will the Council of State help to ensure that the industry meets a safe grazing season?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e897	For the sake of order, the question was addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, but since it is my formal responsibility, I am the one who answers. That's an important question. Remembering that I was not wrong, the sheep industry in Stage was also significantly affected by Galven-Tispa, so it is not only in Ringsacht, but also in Stage this is an important question. We've been given a lot of new insight into the wolves' movement lately, as a result of all the research done on this, and not least the marking. Many of the performances that it has been natural to have in the past have proved not to be true. If you, for example, looking a wolf just outside of a wolfevir, it is natural to believe that it is one of the wolves coming from that giant, while there may be a wolf not from the Rendals Reviret, but from Stockholm, who has entered the edge of the reef. We know a lot more, and it is therefore much easier to implement sensible measures. The wolf that Bredvold refers to, a Finnish-Ugrian immigrated wolf whip – it is marked, so we know all about it – was moved from domestic areas in Jämtland and southwards to Örebro on 21 March this year by the Swedish Environment Administration. This is due to the high inbreeding level of — let's call it — the Norwegian-Swedish wolf tribe. Here's several interesting things to notice. So it's not located in the outer edge, but in the vicinity of Örebro, which is one of Sweden's largest cities, and right in the core area of the wolf, but also in the core area of the population of Sweden. The Swedes have done this because they believe that this genetically important wolf is important for the renewal of the wolf tribe. It has been able to follow its movements through Sweden, through large areas in south-east Norway, it has moved a lot through the representative state of Bredvold, Hedmark. It has also been as close to Oslo as it is to Lillestrøm. Wolves, as you know, are not an animal that looks at humans, but is on the contrary against humans, so it is not easy to see it. But it's moving across huge areas, probably looking for a life partner. The wolf is at this moment, when we stand here, 17 km into Sweden, near the northwest of Idre. So it's not in the pasture area in the green zone of Hedmark. I have no doubt that it was right at the time the representative asked the question, but it only shows how fast the wolf moves, and in the meantime it has made difficult movements in South Norway, and now it is far into Sweden. The point of this description of life is that it is very unpredictable where and when this wolf might try to establish itself. And since it's a radiolabeled genetic important wolf, the movements are continuously followed as it delivers new positions. There is ongoing contact between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities on the matter and the situation is continuously assessed in view of the need for action. I just want to end by saying, in order to calm Bredvold, that this wolf would come to Norway and do the same damage as the Galven-Tispa did, we will, of course, initiate action at an early stage to try to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e910	I would like to thank you for a comprehensive and, I would say, a positive response. I thank you once again for that. What we've learned over years, as the Council of State says, is that because of that, we can take reasonable action. When I asked the question, the wolf was where it was then, and now it is completely different. Maybe a wolf can move 20 miles in a good 24 hours when it's in good shape. That it is out now, does not mean that it may come back, or that other predators will come back. That's why I'm asking for this – that you take sensible measures so that the industry doesn't get as hard hit as it was last year, with Galven-Tispa and other predators. My follow-up question would then be concrete: what sensible measures does the Council of State see if you get the same situation as we had with the Galven-Tispa last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e919	It was maybe the year before that was the biggest damage to Galven-Tispa. But now leave it, it is possible I remember errors there. We want close contact with the Swedish administration to be able to follow the wolf and assess measures. We want close contact with the county officials, in this case especially the county councillor in Hedmark, who is most important if we are talking about the Strange–Ringsack area, and we will assess it immediately if it might prove to be damage. In practice, there are two possible measures: one is to catch the wolf and move it, and the other is to hunt for the wolf and remove it. Both of these measures will, of course, be considered if the wolf were to cause significant damage. But let me add that on Friday I travel to Eyes in the Gudbrand valley to talk to sheep farmers there in front of the grazing season. Of course, the situation is not equal to two places. It's not necessarily the same in Eyes as in Bars and Rings, but it's not far from Bars and Rings, so it'll be part of the preparations to have a dialogue with the industry about what's right to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e930	I thank you once again for your answer. I had a question in the questionnaire for a few weeks back about grazing, i.e. a notice of grazing for 2012. There are a number of buffer holders who have been notified that if the predators do not fall into the current grazing season, i.e. in 2011, they will be grazed for 2012. It's something that's in the back of the mind of those who're serious about buffing, that you're doing the best you can. But because there are a lot of predators – and there may be random predators coming in because of a lot of hiking – they will not be allowed to release their animals in 2012. I also hope that the Council of State will think a little about this when he thinks about sensible measures, and that decisions are quick to make on what sensible measures are, whether there is movement, whether it is simply shooting predators, or whether there may be anything else, and that the Council of State is doing the best he can in terms of making reasonable measures as quick as possible, so that any suffering becomes as few as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e937	I basically agree with Bredvold in the meaning of the tempo, because it shows how fast such a wolf can move, also because it gives confidence both in the industry and in everyone else. The State of Oppland, for example, received a good shot from a number of the sheep owners I met last summer so that you could get a permission to be killed immediately, and on the phone when there were dramatic situations in which you had to clean up. Of course, the threshold for removing a single wolf in rapid motion, which causes great damage, is lower than removing a wolf in an established revir. But this is a genetically important wolf. That's why you went so far with different measures to try to protect Galven-Tispa, not take it out, but try to move it, as it moved in Hedmark one or two years ago. We're going to have to figure it out, but it ended up being caught and moved out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e948	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. «In the Official Journal of Bergen on 5 April this year, there are still too many disabled people outside the labour market. Unfortunately, unemployment among this group does not show that it is falling, as opposed to a falling general unemployment rate. It must then be that the government's actions for this group do not work. What does the Council of State think that measures to increase the number of people with disabilities are not good enough, and what will the Council of State do to this group of measures so that they also become part of the labour market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e957	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Reiertsen, for an important question. The participation of people with disabilities has been independent of changing economic cycles in the labour market and different governments have remained stable over the last decade. According to the Labour Force Survey of the Central Bureau, about 250,000 people with disabilities were at work in 2010, or about 44. By comparison, the employment rate was 75 pst. in the total population. The low level of occupational participation among disabled persons cannot be linked to high levels of unemployment in this group. On the contrary, unemployment is relatively low among people with disabilities and has evolved as a total unemployment among the population. The unemployed are persons without any gainful employment but who try to get a job and can start working immediately. In 2010, 78 000 non-employed disabled people replied that they wanted to work. Of these, 20,000 were, or approx. 3.5 pst. unemployed. The availability of disabled persons increased from 1.9 pst. up to 3.5 pst. from 2009 to 2010 and from 2,2 pst. to 3.1 pst. total population. Therefore, there are relatively few disabled people who are unemployed and are active job seekers. The challenge for this group is, rather, that many young people are granted a disability pension. There has been a broad political consensus on labour-oriented efforts to increase the number of people with disabilities at work. This has been done in particular through Objective 2 of the agreement on an inclusive working life. The focus here is on employers' responsibilities for facilitating and preventing exclusion. So far, we haven't seen the results we were hoping for. Over several different government periods, the participation of people with disabilities has remained virtually unchanged. This government has wanted to do something about it and has therefore initiated its own employment strategy for people with disabilities. The strategy will strengthen government efforts to reduce access to disability pension, in particular among young people with disabilities. The instruments and measures shall support the efforts undertaken by the social partners through the IA Agreement. The strategy will be developed in cooperation with the parties and organisations of the disabled. Two so-called broad-representative panels have made contributions to the work. The focus on the future will include: to look at the instruments we need for Norwegian working life to be more demanding for disabled jobseekers, i.e. to open the doors of the ordinary labour market for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e972	I thank you for the answer, and I am very pleased that the minister here will admit that they still have to work hard in relation to this group. One sees enough that the state has neglected to lead as a good ambassador by adding more disabled people. Many private enterprises are actually better in this way. Does the Council have any concrete measures and objectives to increase the number of people with disabilities in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e979	Only first of all I want to say that we have a big challenge here. I'm very concerned to say that there's a cross of thought that when unemployment generally goes down, and we've had periods of high demand for labour, we haven't been able to do anything with this group. It shows that we have to do something extraordinary for them. So I'm concerned that the government or state has to be good at this, like private. I fully agree that private people are making a good effort. In general, weak public and private efforts are being made. There is some of what the government is going to address in the employment strategy. So I come back with a closer answer to that piece when it is presented, and that's not very long longer. Just on top of it, I would like to say that we have not succeeded as well as we should, but we do not have a very low professional participation in Norway compared to other countries. Sweden is a bit above us, but Sweden is one of the best countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e988	I thank you again for your answer. I see that we have a way to go. One knows that in many contexts it is important to have user experience in order to get good solutions and services. When it comes to people with disabilities, it may be even more important than anyone else when trying to get into the labour market. Often, the threshold is high to search, and the descent is the bigger when you get a rejection. Out of nearly 80,000 disabled people, I choose to believe that many of these have the competence to benefit from in Nav. At least there should be room for one in each Nav office, i.e. approx. Four hundred thirty. Will the Council of State work to ensure that such a user involvement or addition can be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e997	First of all, I fully agree that users and their experience are very important, and that is why, in order to get a good employment strategy, I have set up a separate panel with users, who have worked out a set of proposals on what they think they need to do in order for the doors to be just opened. Then I take with me the idea that, in general, you might need to send out some directives, without me putting them too much into practice, to different public agencies, including Nav, about how they have to deal with this. I think the most important thing is to look at – and I did it in the other panel, I challenged the employer side – what do employers need to have in order to open the doors? I think we should be so realistic that we should say that employers, and both public and private, need different kinds of help, they need to move prejudices and attitudes to open the doors to people with disabilities. In my plan, I want to be particularly concerned with young people with disabilities – those under 30 years of age, and those on the way from education and from work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1010	‘The vehicle office does not cover the costs of automatic transmission, which seems unreasonable in cases where this is a completely necessary tool. A wheelchair user with a polio frame is only allowed to drive a car with automatic transmission, and as a result of his disability he gets an extra cost of approx. NOK 28 000. Will the Council of State ensure that derogations from the guidelines are introduced, so that automatic transmission can be covered by Nav as an extra equipment on the same line with hand-operated gas/brake in cases where automatic transmission is considered to be a required means?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1017	The question concerns whether automatic transmission is to be regarded as special equipment and is therefore eligible for social benefits under the provisions on social security for motor vehicles or other means of transport. In the past, provision was made for the benefit of automatic transmission systems as special equipment, but this has long been such that it is now supplied as standard extra equipment. Thus, automatic transmission has not been eligible as special equipment for many years either. Special equipment means extra equipment which cannot be supplied as standard extra equipment from the car factory. As the development of what can be supplied as standard extra equipment is progressing, this means that equipment that has previously been considered as special equipment is no longer covered by the social security framework. Automatic transmission is now delivered as standard extra equipment on almost all car models. The granting of a social benefit to automatic transmission systems as special equipment will require an amendment to the regulation. I understand that automatic transmission for some users will be necessary equipment to make use of a car. However, equipment considered to be normal falls outside the current social welfare framework. An extension of the social security framework will be a budgetary matter, which must be assessed against other important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1026	It may seem unreasonable to have a system that does not cover large additional costs with special equipment, which is required due to a malfunction, when the factory is able to deliver the adapted equipment, but that Nav covers equivalent additional costs if the factory is unable to deliver and has to have another workshop to make the adjustment. In this case you can imagine that if both legs had worked, this person could have had an ordinary car and saved NOK 28 000. When one leg doesn't work, she gets an extra charge of NOK 28 000. If she also gets paralysis in the other leg, she gets no expense, because then it is Nav who builds the car. The user's needs and the costs incurred when buying a car are completely set aside by the regulations. Does not the Council of State think that this may seem unreasonable in cases where you are not allowed to drive because of malfunctioning? That's the big extra cost I think here is going to be very unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1033	I would like to stress that here we have a regulatory framework that today sets a limit to opening up this. So I think we have to say that basically this is the right code because it is linked to the fact that when automatic transmission is delivered as standard equipment, it is also presumptive of a completely different economic nature to have it installed. A classic example is that before was a carport opener something you got extra, but now there's something you get on Clas Ohlson, more or less, and that everyone has. I see the point: although this can be delivered as an extra equipment, it can be very expensive. I understand the issue. But I underline what is my point: Our order is aimed at those who need it the most, are the ones who are initially covered by that regulation – therefore that delimitation. That's why it's a point for me to stress that we're going to do something about it, it requires a change, and that's a budgetary question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1040	I support the Council of State in a lot of what she says, that those who need it the most, will get it. In this case, it's about a person who can either drive a car or not – so she needs it most, and it's a big extra cost. It is also a paradox that in this case the state is the one that serves the most that this lady cannot drive a car with ordinary gear. Of the NOK 28 000, NOK 18 000 is charged to the State. Will the Council consider proposing to the Minister of Finance the introduction of a tax exemption for the cost of automatic transmission in cases where it has been demonstrated that a driver is not allowed to drive a car with regular transmission for medical reasons, so that the State does not become the person who sits and earns money, i.e. tax on sickness in the correct sense of the word? It's quite doubtful when there's a lot of extra costs that are incurred because of a malfunction. I also hope that the Council of State will look at this scheme otherwise too, because it is possible to make regulatory adjustments that grant exemptions in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1047	I just underline what I have already said that it is a budgetary question. I believe this matter as a whole will have many other aspects as well, in addition to what the representative addresses. If you were to consider doing something about this, there could be many other cases where you might think it was better to go in and do something with the code. I hear the question. I believe that this is a budgetary question, and I stress that the starting point for the government is that those who need it most are going to get it. This is why a limit has been set to whether the equipment is supplied as an extra equipment. But beyond that, this is a budgetary question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1058	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The accident at the Fukushima nuclear power plant has led to a debate in Europe in relation to the future of nuclear power. Will the Council of State do something active to take advantage of the potential for new energy production and contribution to energy supply coming into the wake of a possible policy change in our neighbouring country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1067	Let me first say that what has happened in Japan and Fukushima is very serious, and is going to have major consequences primarily for Japan itself and the people who live in the area that is nearby. It's one of the really great disasters of our time. I think we'll be careful to say too much now about what consequences this is going to have in the long term. But what I think it must be allowed to say, is that this is going to lead to a larger debate based on safe and secure energy supply. There have been different estimates of in several countries, perhaps the strongest in Germany. For Norway, there will be several elements that are important and interesting in such an image, perhaps primarily for the role of a large supplier of oil and gas. It is energy carriers that are already of great importance to Europe and that can become even more important if you choose a transition from nuclear power to other energy carriers. That's where I think it's my job, and the government's job, to be involved and contribute to our stable and good oil and gas market. This may also have implications for our renewable energy production. It is a key element of the government's energy policy, and in this area the government has an offensive and broad policy. We are putting very heavy emphasis on action in this area and will in the years to come further increase efforts. In particular, I would like to refer to the introduction of a common green certification market with Sweden, which will lead to a large-scale development of renewable electricity production. Finally, I would like to stress once again that we should be careful to draw conclusions already now on the consequences this may have, but will only confirm and answer that these are, of course, issues that the government takes very seriously. It's not important just to us, but it's important to the whole world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1078	I understand that the Council of States wants to be careful to say something about the consequences. But I assume that he is following closely within his area and is well aware that the head of the European Parliament's Environment Committee, Jo Leinen, was in Norway last week and visited, among other things. Ministry of the Environment and Mongstad. His view of this was that in June Germany will adopt the closure of all 17 of its nuclear power plants by 2020/2022. So we're talking about eight to ten years ahead of time. This means that there will be an enormous need for new energy supply towards Germany. The right-hand side is that Norway should have an active attitude to say that we want to help Germany meet its needs through more use of natural gas, but also that Norway can deliver more renewable energy, among others. from pumped storage plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1085	With regard to the importance of Norway as an energy supplier in Europe, there is no doubt that our supplies of special gas have a significant impact on electricity production and also have the highest potential. In addition, I would like to remind you that the international gas market has been greatly changed in recent years, mainly in relation to new technologies and the extraction of shale gas. We know that there are large shale gas deposits in Europe, which may prove to be commercially interesting to take advantage of in time to come. In the case of pumping power plants in Norway dedicated the German market, that we should specifically dispose of parts of Norwegian nature to meet a German energy demand, I believe that this is a big and important question. It raises many interesting issues. My starting point is that we should start from the whole Norwegian interest. So Stortinget will be invited to discuss this widely in connection with both the notified online message and the notified energy message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1094	An energy report is unfortunately far ahead in time. These questions need to be clarified quickly, because the need will arise in a short time, and because it takes eight to ten years to develop that type of infrastructure project. Norway already has half of its magazine capacity in Europe. The question is whether Norway and the Council of State want to be more active in facilitating, for example: pumped storage plants, not necessarily due to the needs of Germany, but due to the needs of the continent. Sira-Kvina power company has recently announced that they are putting their plans for pumping power plants on ice, because they perceive it as such, among other things. the framework conditions are unclear. My challenge to the Council of State is whether he wants to be an active driving force in making use of both industrial opportunities and value creation, but also addressing the energy needs of neighbouring countries in Europe in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1105	I represent the Norwegian government elected by the Norwegian people, and my starting point here is that we will manage Norwegian energy resources and Norwegian natural resources for the benefit of the Norwegian society as a whole. This means that it is not only the profitability of Norwegian power generators that will be decisive in the dimensioning of transmission capacity to Europe. I can assure the representative that I am going to be positive about exchanging capacity with Europe if it is in line with Norwegian interests, if that means that we can take care of all the concerns we need in terms of our own energy supply, our own energy security and our own price level. With the same interests, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1117	‘In the Address Paper on 15 September 2010, Commissioner Borten Moe called for the simplification of the construction of small-scale power plants by delegating more responsibility for concessional treatment to local democracy. Will the Council of State take the initiative in this respect, and when can the Storting possibly bring such a case before it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1124	The entrance to this interview in the Address Paper was about the energy supply situation in Central Norway. For me, a better and more stable power supply in this part of the country is very central. That is why, in an interview with the Address Paper last autumn, I arranged to look at all possible measures to improve security of supply in this region. I pointed to the transfer of the concession authority for small power plants from NVE to the county council as one possible measure. The underlying objective was to reduce the time taken to deal with the problem and thus to exploit this significant power potential more quickly. Action has already been taken on the part of the Ministry in recent years to increase the speed of proceedings in the NVE. This has mainly been done by increasing the procedural capacity. This has produced results. In 2010, more than 100 cases were dealt with four times as many concession applications as in 2004. From 2010 onwards, county councils have been empowered to adopt concession decisions for hydroelectric power plants below 1 MW. This was mainly done for reasons of efficiency. Such concession cases are prepared by the NVE’s regional offices, which forward their suspension to the county for decision. Although I am in favour of simplification and decisions to be taken at the lowest possible level, we must at the same time ensure equal treatment of projects between counties, ensure that competing projects are assessed in the context, and that network and production coordination is ensured. Although the county council had been delegated decision-making powers in even more cases, the rules of the Water Resource Act and other relevant legislation have to be complied with. The greater the intervention, the greater the requirements for knowledge and competence of the decision-making authority. It is therefore not certain that any further delegation of authority will increase the effectiveness of the procedure. It is also a view that the county authorities themselves have expressed, after they themselves have gone into and assessed this issue specifically. For me, progress in matters and the realization of renewable energy is the most important thing, not who takes the decisions. The most important step in ensuring security of supply, which was also my main concern in the interview in the Address Paper, is to give priority to the handling of projects in the most vulnerable areas. It's already happened through the NVE. I can assure the representative Solvik-Olsen that we have a great commitment, and that there is a great progress in creating lasting and good solutions for this part of the country to ensure good security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1139	Thanks for the answer. I do not doubt the involvement of the Council of State in this, at least not on the basis of the statements he had before he became the Council of State. I have the impression that he has continued the commitment also as the Council of State. I agree with what was said, that the most important thing is to have a quick and good process. But then the question is how to manage to organize up to that. At least the Progress Party has been open to get a more local treatment of this, which was in line with the statements made by the Council of State when he was a major representative. It's said that there's the amount of intervention that needs to be critical. That's also true. But there's not always a direct correlation between the size of the intervention and the size of the turbine, and the fact that one can also get treated more extensively faster, but with a low level of conflict, one should have greater flexibility for. Will the State Council consider whether the 1 MW limit can be adjusted?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1150	It sounds like we have a relatively similar approach to the problem and the question. It's not the principle of who is to sign the decisions, which is crucial, but that there is efficiency in the system, and that the goal is to get the most concessions out in the shortest possible time to realise a power potential that we're all committed to getting in place. I also agree that although a power plant can be large, the level of conflict need not be the same. However, it is difficult to operate with limits on powers not linked to an objective size. As soon as you talk about the level of conflict, there will be different judgements, and then it's the way in our system that there are many people who have opinions. I cannot promise the representative Solvik-Olsen now that I will come back to Stortinget with a case about the short-term transfer of the decision-making authority, but I can inform you that I have a very open mind in relation to this, and that is the basis for assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1159	An open mind is most likely to demand in this situation. I hope he takes it further and works on it. Something that is very related to this in this context is about getting the optimal size of small power plants, so that one does not scale them down in order to escape a MW limit in the hope of reaching a different level of management or reducing them in order to escape a tax limit. I have previously asked written questions to the Council of State about deductions for the taxation of small-scale power plants and actually received a very positive response to it back from the Council of State. The point and issue is that the Ministry of Finance had a different view on this. Will the Council of State work to ensure that the Ministry of Finance also puts itself on the line of the Minister of Oil and Energy in getting small-scale power plants realised in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1166	My job in this regard is to assure me that the projects that are granted a concession have the best possible use of energy resources and use our common resource base in the best possible way. Then it is the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance who manages the tax and tax assets. To the extent that the representative Solvik-Olsen has questions and views on it, it is the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State. With regard to the processes that go internally in the government, I ask for understanding that they go internally in the government. And I always support what is the government's current policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1175	We go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1182	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Fana is a secondary school in Bergen and Kongsbakken secondary school in Tromsø conducts trials with one character in the Norwegian subject on study-specific programmes. The background for the tests is, among other things, that Norwegian teachers consider that they can gain greater room for qualitative Norwegian professional work by reducing the scope of the formal, characterised assessment bases. Trials have aroused interest far beyond the two schools involved. Will the Council of State contribute to the evaluation of the trials at the two schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1191	The Directorate of Education approved the application for a single character test in the Norwegian language at Fana Gymnas for the 2009–2010 school year and with an extension up to and including the 2011–2012 school year. The Royal High School has been granted trials for the period 2010–2011 up to and including 2011–2012. The tests are subject to the following conditions: The tests with Norwegian character of Vg1 and Vg2 aim to simplify and improve the assessment practices of those years that do not have a final assessment. Students shall be trained in written sidings of Vg1 and Vg2 even if they are given only one character in the Norwegian language at these stages. Students shall have en-route assessment and be provided with a continuous and systematic assessment in Norwegian oral, written principal and written sidings also in Vg1 and Vg2. The test scheme covers only students on Vg1 and Vg2. Students on Vg3 are not included in the experiment. That means they're getting a testimonial on the same lines as any other Vg3 student, which is in line with today's regulations. Students shall have detailed information about the scheme and participation in the experiment shall be voluntary. The upper secondary school has been granted an extension of its study with one character in the Norwegian language starting in the 2009–2010 school year. The school is experiencing more time to work with the Norwegian subject at Vg1 and Vg2 in this experiment. The Royal College of Higher Education was granted a new trial for two school years, on the basis that the school wishes to test new evaluation schemes in the Norwegian language which they consider to be more in line with the new ‘evaluation’ regulation. One condition for granting local trials is that the school itself is responsible for evaluating the experiment. The evaluation shall be in writing and a representative of another school or county municipality shall participate in the evaluation. I assume that the evaluation will be publicly available, so that more people can benefit from the experience of the Royal Tray and the Fana, among others. We're working on revision of the Norwegian curriculum, because this is an interesting attempt when we're going to do that particular job. This means that experience from these experiments can contribute to this important curriculum work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1226	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not quite satisfied, because I hear that the Council of State says that it is a local responsibility to evaluate local trials. At this stage, with a great deal of national work related to the assessment of learning, I think it is quite important to ensure qualitatively good evaluations, and you know that. The feedback from the Kong Hill, which I know best, shows that everything indicates that the training that has been done here has created greater room for variation in education, and the students have also been more able to do so. So I again ask the Council of State whether this is not of such national interest to the current assessment work that the State should contribute to such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1235	I trust that both the Royal Swedish High School in Tromsø and the Fana Gymnas in Bergen have made a good effort to evaluate this experiment, because it is a prerequisite for doing so. It has just been accepted as an experiment, because it is interesting to find out what is the experience of these schools in having one character in the Norwegian language. We know that Norwegian is a very demanding subject. I have a lot of contact with Norwegian teachers, who have just pointed out how enormously demanding it is to give three grades in one subject. I think the work that is now going on in Fana and Kongsbakken is very interesting. But I have full confidence that they themselves have prepared an evaluation that is of such high quality that the Ministry of Knowledge will use the experience of creating a new curriculum, which will work from the 2013–2014 school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1242	There's a reason why I'm dealing with this question, because I've received an enquiry from these two schools, which has sent an application to the Education Directorate for co-financing, because they see that if you do a good evaluation of these trials, it just costs more than it tastes, and more than what you seem to be able to do locally. Then I think it is very important that when such tests are started, when a large amount of work is done, and there is a great deal of local resources associated with it, it would be very unfortunate if these trials went into history as attempts that were not properly evaluated, and that national education authorities should consider that the evaluation that has been carried out is not sufficient to focus on it and draw on it when designing future evaluation provisions for the Norwegian field of higher education. I hear what the Council of State says – she thinks it's a local responsibility. But is it really that you don't want to contribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1251	A premise when asked to carry out local trials is also the financing of own evaluation of these trials. That's why we can say yes to many local trials with different variants of how we can help improve Norwegian school. If it was such that we had to have a central pot where it was to be granted for just these trials, there was fewer attempts we could say yes to. This is why the schools that agree to carry out local tests are also responsible for evaluating them. As far as I know, this was also the case when Elisabeth Aspaker was part of political leadership in the Department of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1256	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-04.ana.ud6e1269	There is no record.
