ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e26	The representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e41	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, Knut Storberget and Anniken Huitfeldt will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e48	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question. Today's newspaper says: ‘Knut Storberget’s commitment to the police is to become the largest police bluff in Norway’s history.’ It claims trust elected Arne Johannessen in PF. The title reads: ‘There are fewer policemen in Norway today than there were seven years ago.’ In addition, we know that after the police reform in 2001, more and more policemen have moved into the offices. It involves less visibility and less presence both in Oslo and in all other police districts. In this context, I record that the government now wants to transport small criminal asylum seekers into the districts. You might have to believe that is a good central party policy to maintain settlement, but I think it might be a different agenda that underlies. I have also recorded that in many areas the Labour Party has tried to adopt the policies of the Progress Party on asylum, immigration and integration policies, but here I think the government has blocked a little. The Progress Party has never said that asylum seekers should be sent to the country, we have said that they should be sent out of the country. Although this is fixed in Soria Moria, as I understand it, is my challenge to the Minister of Justice: has this proposal been consulted by local and regional politicians? Have the police districts been informed of such exports of criminal asylum seekers from the central east and into the districts? Or, have you ever thought about the consequences? Are you really so naive and thinking that you're fighting crime by spreading crime across the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e79	I must be allowed to thank you for the opportunity to clarify what is actually in this proposal. As an oyster beer and very happy in the districts, I can calm District Norway. It's not that we're about to start a more or less massive broadcast out into the country. We're going to continue the effort we have, just by sending out the offenders, out of the country. It is precisely in order to be able to pursue the policy that we also need tools to help those who commit the mildest criminal acts and who cannot be held in custody are actually required to stay, and preferably at the place where they actually live – read: the municipality where the asylum recipient is located. That's the whole intention. To the extent that the plays that came yesterday, and the media coverage of this, have created the impression that asylum seekers should now be sent to rural areas, I must immediately say that that is not right. There is an opportunity for the police and the court to be able to impose a stay, and then preferably in the asylum office where you live, so that you do not wander around the cities. Criminal offences in the streets of Elverum — to take a place where they are concerned — could be a risk of being ordered to return to the asylum office from where they come, for example. in Våler, and you have to stay there until the tickets are ready and the transport is ready to transport him out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e94	Despite the fact that there has now been an order of the propositions, the President believes that the questioner needs an additional question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e97	Yes, please. The answer that came is a little surprising, because it is in stark contrast to what the Prime Minister said directly on television yesterday. It was difficult to misunderstand the message from the Prime Minister, who indicated that this was down in Soria Moria. It is clear that these longings, the asylum seekers, among other things. along Akerselva, they were now to be taken in, and then they were to be transported out and be subject to reporting obligations in another municipality. It is dramatic in itself when we know that the police lack resources in the districts, and then you have to get additional tasks to do with this. The best thing would have been to do as the Progress Party has proposed, to get a tightening provision in the penal code for using the asylum institution to commit crime in Norway. This has been voted down by Stortinget. And the next thing would have been, of course, to use closed reception in cases where there are asylum seekers who commit crime. This has also been voted down by the Stortinget and the government. Is this a step on the way to a closed reception – at least when reporting obligations are imposed on criminal asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e108	This proposal, which has been in consultation since last summer, must be read in full. If you take out one part of it, and you think that's the whole bet, it's going to be a little bit different. This proposal thus opens up the possibility of more prisoning asylum seekers who commit criminal offences, reducing the level of evidence and the requirements for imprisonment. It also opens up more to be able to imprison people who do not send out, and people who deliberately hamper their work with identity. I believe that this is absolutely necessary, especially at a time when we are able to send out so many asylum seekers who are not allowed to be here or who commit criminal offences. So there are 5,000 to 6,000 this year – as far as I recall – who are being sent out, or are travelling on a voluntary basis. I believe that this is one of the main reasons why we also see a significant reduction in the number that comes, for no reason to get protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e115	There will be four follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e118	My supplementary question goes to the Minister of State. We have already demonstrated the lack of respect for local democracy when establishing asylum receptions in Norwegian municipalities, even without rapporteurs being briefed. We have been shown that this government will now force people to settle in Norwegian municipalities, contrary to the wishes of local democracy. That's what this government stands for. And now we're shown that the government has to send criminal asylum seekers out to District Norway. It is becoming a ‘not good’ repertoire this government has in terms of asylum and local democracy. I understand that the Central Party wants to use the whole country, even though this may not be the way to do it, but is it not a problem for the Central Party and the Minister for Municipal Affairs that we are once again snuffing in the leeway of local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e127	The representative gives a somewhat distorted picture of this government's policy. First, this government is the first to record the relationship between the state and the municipality and the state government of the local government sector. Over the summer, I want to present a big message that addresses it, with the aim of ensuring local action spaces for the municipalities and not getting over-control in too many cases. It will be such that national policies, both from the government and from the general public, would like to set objectives and requirements for the local government sector. It is important that it is done in a way that allows local democracy to grow in a way that allows local democracy to be heard. It applies in all cases, and it will also apply here. My job as a municipal minister will always be watchful for that to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e134	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e138	My question goes to the State Council of Storberget. In these days there has also been a violent debate in the Drammen area. In Lier, where a burned-out asylum provider has been empty for a year, a lot of wrecks have suddenly begun to be moved in. UDI has not informed the municipality and the Ministry of Justice has come to the heels. They're now saying maybe there's going to be 300 places there. Now we see this in the light of the last play of the Prime Minister to send the criminals out into the country. But we have just discussed in the Municipal Committee a proposal from the Left on the rapid treatment of asylum seekers who commit criminal acts. There the majority parties, and the Council of State, write that this is not necessary because ‘it is already well taken care of in the government’s work on asylum matters and return’. What has happened since Stortinget gave this setting four days ago, until Jens Stoltenberg's play now, which will suddenly bring new measures in this area? Hasn't the government done enough work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e149	As regards the rapid treatment of asylum seekers who commit criminal offences, this is something that was well introduced more than a year and a half ago. It is a very good cooperation between the Oslo Police District, the Police Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Directorate, where significant results are actually seen. There are hundreds of people involved, and there are now – as I said in my previous answer – several thousand who are actually being sent out. As far as I'm concerned, it was about... 700 who had committed criminal offences sent out only last year. So that's a very useful tool. We see that what can really both bring down the number of unjustified asylum applications, which we have managed to halve, and help reduce crime, as we see now, actually happens in several places in the country, is that you react quickly. As far as the situation in Lier is concerned, I have stated that I believe that we cannot provide enough information in this type of case, and I am pleased that the meeting held between Secretary of State Lönseth and the municipality yesterday gave good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e156	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e159	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of State. When I saw the interview with the Prime Minister yesterday, I immediately thought that now the election campaign in Oslo is going on. Here, the Labour Party and the Prime Minister need to show their power of action, and what is better than to send criminal asylum seekers to the country. Here, Oslo's streets are to be cleared for criminal asylum seekers. From a regional policy point of view – we have now seen that the Länsmannskontoret in the Länsmannskontoret has been laid down in the districts – does the Minister for Local Affairs think that this proposal is a good regional policy instrument, and does she think that the small municipalities around Norway think that this bill was a very good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e168	This proposal has nothing to do with district policy. There's a farce in the media on it. It is about making it easier for criminal asylum seekers to be imprisoned. I actually think there was a party in this hall that would have taken the wave for it. It is a question of ensuring that if they are not to be imprisoned, they will be returned to their asylum recipients. They are not to be sent out to the districts. What this government is busy about when it comes to district policy is ensuring a commitment to transportation that allows both asylum seekers and others to travel safely, it's having good municipal services, it's actually strengthening the county labour offices in line with what's in Soria Moria, it's ensuring business development and innovation across the country, and it's an active policy where municipalities can provide good and equivalent services across the country. It's our district policy. This proposal is not finally designed – it should not be a negative regional policy instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e175	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e178	I would like to follow up – to the Minister of Justice. Yesterday, the Labour Party started its electoral campaign in the Workers' Society by singing 'Good in the Country', and it was thought that you would win the Oslo elections by sending all the problems out of town. The left has done the job in this respect. Maybe one of the reasons why the socialists always lose in this town is that you don't listen to the people who live here and listen to the police who work on this. The biggest problem, as they describe it, is that people are being expelled, but not handling the asylum application, only sending them to Schengen – sending them to Germany. Then it takes as long as it takes to buy an airline ticket in Berlin and get on the plane, before you are back along Akerselva. That is why the Left has presented the 8th document on examining the applications here and sending people out of Schengen. My question is, why don't you hear what the police say in Oslo about what would work? Why don't you go for those solutions instead of sending the problem out of town?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e187	As I said in my previous answer, it is such that we, together with the Oslo police district, have established a special, very good routine of how to deal with these matters as quickly as possible and as consistently as possible. That's what results are. It is also true that no other government has ever been able to point out both the type of procedure and not least the volume that can now be dealt with and enforced. So I have faith that one of the reasons we're now seeing a significant decrease in e.g. Gross burglary in Oslo — a half of it — is that very cash has been reacted to particularly foreign citizens coming to Norway and committing criminal offences. They react quickly to criminal law, and together with the foreign agencies, they get this into a track that makes them very quick to send out as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e192	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e195	I will continue to ask the Minister of Justice. This is because the previous round was not particularly elucidating. I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister on one part of what was launched yesterday, namely new rules to facilitate the imprisonment of criminal asylum seekers. It's a good turnaround. Two years ago, Right proposed this in Stortinget. Then, under the leadership of the president responsible for government at the time, the government said that this was not necessary. I think it's a good confession that now you think it's necessary, and that we might get caught up in the criminal activity that is obviously organised through asylum networks. But the second proposal, that of distributing those who commit crime of a slightly lower severity, around the country, seems to be a little thoughtful. Many of our rapporteurs just got coffee in the consternation yesterday when they felt that the Prime Minister was directly countering the work they have done over several years to create safer communities — the job of turning down drug turnover by a zero-tolerance strategy on drugs in their local environment and working to strengthen youth work on drugs. Then they are told that this government's gift to District Norway, or to smaller areas around it, is to create a new drug distribution network by moving asylum seekers who are in the open drug settings in Oslo, around the country. Because that's what the Prime Minister said. My question to the Minister of Justice is: Does he realize that yesterday many local politicians felt that the government is countering their strategy to make youth environments drug-free when they send more people with drug distribution networks around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e206	I have to admit quickly that I understand, as the case has been made in the media, and as it has now evolved, that you are being worried out in District Norway. That's why I tried to be as clear as possible in my first answer, that this is not a proposal to send criminal asylum seekers around almost on a tour in Norway. But this is an extension of the home that you already already have to those who refuse to leave the country, and those who cheat with identity, that is, an opportunity to impose a permanent residence. We also believe that it is necessary to be able to do so in relation to those who commit criminal offences. Then it's most practical and close to thinking that they're like, for example, living at a reception in municipality A, and committing criminal offences in municipality B, is required to stay and be at the reception they have actually been assigned, and where they live, and to be in the municipality in which they are actually to be located, before being sent out of the country. This could be combined with a reporting obligation, which is also stated in the proposal, which makes it possible when the day comes, that the plane is clear and the ticket is arranged – and you have an agreement with the respective country – it will be easier for the police to find the person so that the broadcast is effective. That is the reason for the proposal. This has been on the hearing since last summer. To the extent that it has created misunderstandings about this that it is now time to start moving people around in small and large district municipalities, I just want to make it clear that it is not the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e214	I feel the need to read the press release of the Prime Minister's office, from which the Prime Minister quoted yesterday: ‘The Government will propose, inter alia, that asylum seekers who commit crime in open-ended drug settings in the major cities should be able to be assigned a specific place of residence elsewhere in the country.’ It does not sound like a small crime activity in the centre of Elverum if you live in a nearby asylum facility. What the Prime Minister said yesterday was that you should move those who are at Akerselva, those who are at Plata – those who are driving drug traffic here – to certain places in the country. Those who have then created these misunderstandings must be the government itself. Can the Minister of Justice say that it will be appropriate to move people involved in drug trafficking in Oslo to other places outside the Oslo region as a consequence of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e224	I can cancel that far on the way. It will not be appropriate to transfer criminal asylum seekers to other municipalities, but they may be required to stay where they actually live, so that the police know where they are. That's the intention. We already have this provision in foreign legislation, linked to some asylum seekers. We also want to be able to apply this to those who commit criminal offences, so that they can better understand where they actually are, so that they can be effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e229	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative André Oktay Dahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e232	The Prime Minister’s opinion reads ‘other places in the country’. Then I would recommend that the Minister of Justice take a little talk with his media advisers to clarify, so that the country's prime minister does not make a false policy. Visible and accessible police are functioning. The newspaper today shows that the Right has been right for a long time when we have pointed out that the police coverage has fallen since 2004. What is the background for the Council of State to believe that crime will go down by exporting criminals from Oslo to the districts, where the police coverage is now lower than it was in 2004?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e241	Now I don't think that Norway's crime is getting any less by exporting people around the country. I tried to explain what was in the proposal. However, what is interesting in Norway, and which the representative André Oktay Dahl can bring with him, is that since we took over the government power in 2005, it has just been done the steps that need to be taken in order to obtain, among other things, greater police coverage in Norway. I believe that it is an unusually good answer to get a more effective and powerful police force to triple the recording at the Police College. If we're going to have more policemen, we're going to have to train more. And now the recording is up to over 700. It's never been so loud, and I'm glad that of those who graduated from the Police College last year, over 90 pst. the police payroll. I'm recording that I'm being blamed for bluff in the newspaper today, but it's interesting that whoever's the sender of the statement, the head of the Police Union, said last year at the same time that none of those who went out of the Police College last year were going to get a job. Now we have over 90 pst. Of them, working in the police. Then others will assess where the bluff is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e248	The President must be allowed to recall that, in Storting's Rules of Procedure, supplementary questions should relate to the main issue. There was nothing wrong with it in this case. However, there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure to say that the answer should be related to the main question, but there are things that might suggest that it should be, because the main question was therefore asylum seekers who commit crime and not admission to the Police College. Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e253	Thank you for the President's comment, because then I wouldn't comment on it. I note that, to the best of my ability, the Minister of Justice is trying to get away from the challenge, namely that the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister have different perceptions of what this proposal involves. Even the municipal minister has a different opinion. Now I think the Minister of Justice might be honest and say yes or no. Is this a proposal to imprison asylum seekers who commit a criminal act, or is it a proposal to impose permanent residence on asylum seekers with reporting obligations elsewhere in the country than in the major cities, because that is what the press release says? I believe that the Minister of Justice now has an opportunity to clarify this, so that the Storting will at least have a slightly better understanding of what is contained in this proposal, and not create this confusion by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Municipal Council here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e260	I'm sorry if the president thinks it was outside the main question, but it's now reasonable that part of the build-up of these questions is on whether you can fight crime locally and that the police coverage is too bad. That was the background for me to take up the educational perspective. With regard to the issue of being able to impose permanent residence, it is therefore the case that today we have a basis in foreign legislation in order to impose a permanent residence on an asylum seeker, that he should be in that place – when they avoid persecution, among other things. We want to extend it to cases where criminal offences are committed. It will be very important for them to stay in the municipality where the reception is located and where they actually live. When asylum seekers who are travelling in the country commit criminal acts elsewhere than where they live, the government's view is that it can be a constructive tool to know where they are, that it is decided that they should be within the municipality they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e267	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e270	This is starting to be a pretty interesting round. I note that the Council of State says that it is ‘made in the media’, but when I saw the media yesterday, it was the wise Prime Minister ‘live’ who immediately said what has been quoted several times today, and then it would have been interesting to know whether Storberget really thinks it is the Prime Minister who has misunderstood the proposal. But I can ask another question, because the simple thing is often the best: if you're an asylum seeker at an asylum reception in Oslo and do something criminal in Oslo, are you going to be sent out of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e277	I don't see that as a matter of time, that you are then sent out by Oslo. But it may be topical to have restrictions on your freedom of movement and to be told that you are at the reception you live in Oslo, and also to be obliged to report to the police, so that you can ensure that when that day arrives, you have an opportunity to pick him up for transport to Gardermoen. It may also be an option to be required to stay, for example: However, the fact is that there is more talk of getting a prison decision at the Gardermoen and the rest of the world, so that we actually move to Trandum. When the day comes, it's okay to find him. Then you will be moved out of Oslo, but then to Ullensaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e283	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e286	I am most disappointed that the Minister of Justice has not done the job of understanding what the problem is. There's not a number of expulsions here. Most of the people who talk about this are expelled from Norway many times. Some of them have over 40 expulsions from Norway. They've been transported again and again. The point is that they come back, because they are not transported out of Schengen, they are sent to the first country for asylum applications — often for example. Germany. Why has not the Council of State heard policemen saying that they are transporting the same criminals repeatedly and again out of the country because asylum applications are not being treated in Norway? Transport is not carried out to Morocco and Algeria and the countries from which we know they come, but to Germany, the Netherlands and the countries which were the first to be applied for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e293	The implementation of the Dublin acquis, which is being discussed here, is of particular importance in order to reduce the number of unwarranted asylum seekers to Norway. I'd like to warn as strongly as I can, against a policy where we park the cooperation that lies within the Dublin Convention, that is. return to the country in which asylum was first sought. If Norway were to suspend those rules, I am afraid that many would have chosen Norway as a destination, so it is important that we follow that cooperation, that it is the country in Europe that first received the asylum seeker and registered it, that actually deals with the asylum application. If we think that there is any benefit in dealing with the application here in Norway, and that there will then be some minor risk of returning to Norway when returning to the country of origin, I think we have to think about it, because this is primarily about dealing with asylum applications where the person first applied for asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e302	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e305	I will continue to focus on the government's district policy, but this time I will ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs about jobs in the districts. It's a case that upsets the red-green politicians in North Norway. We know that fishing industries have been the dominant industry in North Norway. In some island communities it's actually like 40 pst. the population is employed in this industry. The industry has also created many jobs on land; in fishing facilities, in the processing industry, in the shipbuilding industry and in transport. The connection between marine resources and construction has been very important. This was the idea and I would also say one of the success formulas behind the Norwegian oil adventure, i.e. activities at sea, operating organisations and shore-based bases. Now the petroleum industry in Norway is entering a new era. We're moving from the center of gravity from the south to the north. Therefore, it is very alarming that the government will throw away such an important regional policy tool, the requirement that we can have operational organisations and based on land. The Christian People's Party is in complete agreement with the Center Party when the Center Party says that we must pursue an active and targeted regional and regional policy that leads to the creation of value, jobs and well-being where people live. Therefore, it is impossible to understand why the government is throwing waste on such an important regional policy tool, namely the requirement for operating organisations and based on land for the petroleum industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e314	Interestingly, Knut Arild Hareide and the Christian People's Party are just asking this question. For the background to the issues sent to Stortinget, the EEA Agreement is – once again. Professor Finn Arnesen refers to the EEA Agreement in the nations today. According to him, this agreement is governed by Norwegian law. As a result, this case, whether it had come to the EU Court of Justice, would have led to the danger of losing the case in the EFTA Court being very large, because the ESA legislation, which is linked to the EEA Agreement, is under Norwegian law. Professor Finn Arnesen also says that the solution the government has come up with is “reasonable and patternable”. One had to change because the EEA Agreement deals with the four freedoms, the EU's internal market, and that the legislation of Paragraphs 10 to 2 of the Petroleum Law goes beyond one's ability when competition is to be superior to getting conductors and demands for jobs in the north. And so is it, and it's important to say, that what has been presented to the Storing will not prevent one from continuing with today's practice. The same professor at the Centre for European Law also says: Yes, one has let go a little – one has to meet ESA – but one also has a tight edge, so that one will also have the right to make specific demands on the Norwegian legal system. The important and quite clear objective of the oil and energy minister and the government has been that we should still be able to have today's practice, but because of an EEA agreement, which the Central Party has never wanted, but which the Christian People's Party participated in, we must make these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e325	I think it is a little special when we hear the Council of State saying that the EEA Agreement is above Norwegian law, when we see the management of the government in this matter, a management where the government has, first of all, been operating secrecy on the basis of the fact that she is afraid of the consequences if this had been brought to the attention of the large groups in this Chamber, and, second, that there has not been any hearing on this matter. So the Council of State is saying that something is above Norwegian law. It's this room that's going to deal with this, but we're not going to be able to go into it, but we're going to be the legislative assembly – no hearing!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e330	I hear the representative swinging up to the great heights, but he does not take a position on what is at the heart of the matter, namely the EEA Agreement and the requirements of ESA, an EEA agreement that the Christian People's Party was driving to introduce. I quoted Professor Finn Arnesen of the Centre for European Law, who today claims that the EEA Agreement and ESA are under Norwegian law. So we can mean what we want about it, and there might be different views of how we want this world to look like. But what he and other professional bodies also say, and of course also professionals both in the departments and those consulted, is that the danger of losing this case, and thus having additional restrictions also in relation to today's practice, will be great. When there are questions related to the specific handling in another department, I asked for an understanding that I cannot comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e339	Four follow-up questions have been asked and given an opportunity to do so – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e342	The reality of this case is that according to ESA’s demands, the government now opens up the possibility that oil companies with concessions for oil extraction in North Norway may choose to operate most of the business from any EU country. So it took care of the Center Party in government. And the worst thing is that, as Hareide was also involved, the government has actively tried to keep the matter hidden from the public. In a letter to the Civil Ombudsman on 11 May this year, the Ministry of Oil and Energy writes: ‘Surveillance of that ESA letter could lead to a press review of the case or a publicity from others, and this was politically important for the government to prevent. This was not least important in view of the groups of parties on the Stortinget, which could easily get a false impression of the case if it was wrongly or uncritically publicly referred to.’ My question to the Council of State is: Is this in line with the government's ambition of Soria Moria for a clear, early and open European policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e352	The negotiating tactical link to the agreement is, of course, the Ministry of Oil and Energy. And I've registered that you've wanted to keep a very low profile in the negotiations. It gives the Stortinget the full opportunity to discuss when the Saka has come here, and the Stortinget should also have a hearing next week and discuss the matter further. I would like one to take up the specific questions with the Minister of Oil and Energy and the department that has been responsible for the specific matter. When it comes to government policy, and both open and early intervention in many issues related to the EEA Agreement, and other important issues relating to the EU, I think we have made a big change with this government. We're early in processes. We are also able to turn matters to the best of Norwegian interests in this way, and under the terms and conditions of debt to the EU, we have good cooperation with our good friends around Europe. For Norway is a country in Europe. We are not in the EU, but cooperation and interaction are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e360	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e363	I'm a little surprised when I hear the argument from the Council of State. For you would think that the EEA Agreement was what was a barrier to district policy. But the Council of State itself says that the changes that the government is now proposing in the petroleum law make the law conform to current practice. The government says that one has not used the space of action for which the law has so far provided a basis, but has taken a less offensive line, and now the law is changing so that it also becomes less offensive. Is that good district policy? In my ears, it's not that. It simply shows that the government cannot owe it to the EEA Agreement, but in fact to its own lack of offensive commitment that the oil business should benefit the whole country. Yes, there are some oil fields that are being developed, but the pace could have been much higher. We see that where oil fields are opened, like outside Hammerfest, there is a significant revitalisation of local business and housing. Is it really the EEA agreement that has been the problem for the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e370	In many areas, the EEA Agreement prevents one from having as offensive a district policy as the Centre would like and which the government could also wish for in a number of areas. We have to live with that, because we have decided that he is the basis of his government's work, and then we stick to it. And so do we in this case. We actually have to keep us that ESA has raised a case, and that we have to stick to it. We also need to maintain that in the practice that has been practised, we need to make a difference to the possibilities that the company has just to bring a case before ESA. So we also have a practice that gives us a lot of activity, a lot of bases. I can refer to my own state, in Florø, where the activity has increased from almost nothing to today there are at least 600-700 jobs – a fantastic development. We can take base for base northwards, not least in North Norway, associated with the activity there. There will be more activity in North Norway. The government will also help to increase activity on land. The last management plan, which was created earlier this year, shows that a new area is being opened and that there will be more activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e379	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e382	My impression is that the center part of the degrees today has been taken with the pants down. I guess there's no party that's had it more as its own sport to challenge the ESA system. I think the Council of State could take the trouble to quote Professor Arnesen in full, because he also says that he will not comment on whether the Ministry of Oil and Energy has been open enough on this matter, and that is after an opening letter that has nothing to do with the negotiations on this matter. So you don't even want to take the trouble of checking out what kind of action space the Petroleum Act provides for the development of the nation within our largest economic, industrial and knowledge clusters. So all normal democratic processes have been phased out in a case that requires transparency, that requires consultation, and that, in fact, also requires the involvement of people living in this area. Why are normal democratic processes being phased out?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e387	I'd like to ask the President to consider how much a specialist council should comment on another specialist council's area. I can answer in general, according to the government's policy: we're a government both for openness and not least for challenging ESA. The interests involved are very vital to Norway. The fact that we can make sure that through a trial as a professional body, either Arnesen or others, we say that we would be doomed to lose, we could be at greater risk of intrusion than what we are now able to negotiate through that process, it's the deviations that a government must make. Which Will Tene the Future Best? And what you've put on, I think I'll feel best in the future because we'll still be able to make demands on the lawyers about activity on land. It has been very important for both the Center Party and the government: that we should also continue to impose the requirements on the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e394	To the question from the Council of State, the President would just say that sometimes the political issue lies in the borderlands between several ministries, and it is up to the Council of State even if one wants to answer. But if there are questions that are obviously entirely under other departments, the Council of State has the opportunity to choose not to answer the question. Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e399	As a Muslim, I'd rather not bring anyone with my pants down, but now the cat is out of the bag. However, I react to the fact that the Council of State, which is responsible for regional policy issues and for district policy in Norway, has not dealt better with this matter. [[Laughter]] This is a embarrassing matter for the government, one that you did not want us in Stortinget to see. Now, however, we have got this insight, thanks to the Evening Post. Now that we know what ESA thinks about it, I wonder what strategies the Council of State has to ensure that the Norwegian districts – and especially North Norway, in view of the latest oil discoveries – keep jobs and values where they are. She must be able to answer that, even if she is not an oil and energy minister. I expect that at least she has knowledge of her own department and what they intend to do to ensure that the districts get to keep both the jobs and the values there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e410	I can keep a separation longer if it is than the minute I now have at my disposal. Firstly, I use a lot of power both in the Ministry of Oil and Energy and in other departments to ensure that the various sectors secure jobs, and secondly because the broad district policy is also about what welfare developments we have and how we develop the community sector. This government has more than 48 000 new annual works, not least in smaller municipalities – also in northern Norway and in other parts of the District of Norway. One must ensure a transport policy that facilitates business, ensure an industrial policy, both largely in relation to industrial policy and small ones, through the municipalities. They have increased their funds significantly since this government came to power, they use it through Innovation Norway, SIVA and other instruments. They can be used for entrepreneurship and innovation. And we're going to make sure through the law that we can be involved in the continuation and make demands on the legal entities on the Norwegian pedestal. This is also what we are doing in this matter that is being discussed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e419	I almost got an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e424	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e428	My question goes to the Minister of State. I perceive that the Minister of Local Affairs has a sincere commitment to local democracy – and it will be allowed to flourish – even though she is constantly feeling overwhelmed by her partners in the government, especially in the field of asylum. But I was going to give an example, if I am allowed to: in my own municipality of residence, Harstad, it is clearly demonstrated that local politicians need to be corrected in dealing with local democracy and the rules of the municipal law. We have one thing in Harstad about tolls – introducing toll funding. In order to ensure a majority of tolls, the Workers' Party and the Right chose to operate with what is the selective calling of representatives to meetings. It is clear in the Official Journal of Harstad how to clear away opponents, let alone call in representatives who are against tolls, in order to obtain a majority of the local government. Even worse than that: the head of the Harstad Workers' Party goes so far as to instruct employees in the City Hall to refuse legally elected representatives access to the Municipal Council and access to the City Hall, because the representative in question has a so-called "wrong" meaning in terms of tolls. This is a fairly horrific example of a violation of the municipal law, and a lack of respect for the rules of local democracy. What do the Council of State think about these types of examples, and what will be done – not least to ensure that democratic rules of play are observed in Norwegian municipalities and that the municipal law is complied with? Here in this case, it is quite a coincidence that you get insight into what actually happened, and I fear that this also happens in many other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e439	I can't go into a single matter concretely. But I can give some general considerations on the question. I have recorded that in the media there is a warning of the local authority's handling of this matter. In that case, the statutory audit will be carried out by the county, which will be responsible. On a general basis, I would like to make it clear that the municipalities have an obligation to be careful about complying with the rules in the municipality. It is important for the confidence of the citizens that one is careful about it, and it is of course unfortunate if, in the context of meetings, there are doubts about the rules of procedure that have been followed, on the basis of which the decision is valid. There are clear rules in the municipality of Elva on the right and duty of elected representatives to attend – § 40. It is very clear that a local government member has the right and obligation to participate in his or her meeting, unless it is a valid maturity. So it's about both a right, but also an obligation, to meet. There are rules for calling an alternate, how it should be done, and it should be in the number order in which they are selected – as far as possible. Kommunelova is not to be misunderstood here, and from my point of view, it is important to point out that we have an important regional body in the county, because the county council is for the first time closer to the municipalities, and of course he also has an obligation to do this law enforcement to check that the decision has been made legally. If that's not the case, one has to take things up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e446	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. Some of the problem here is that a person – the head of the Harstad Workers' Party – refuses physical access to the City Hall. There is nothing that was just claimed in the Harstad Official Journal last Friday. This is also confirmed in the Official Journal of today’s Harstad by the representative who would stop this person. It just shows the seriousness of this. It is important, as the Council of State points out, that this is addressed by the State and that a law enforcement check is carried out. Luckily, the media was present and covered the event, and not least so uprising representatives were serious. Among other things, representatives from the government's own party saw the need for law enforcement. But what I ask you is, what in all the cases where there is no media present, where the representatives are not well enough schooled? I fear that in the country's 430 municipalities it is all too often wrong, and undemocratic principles are being implemented – so democracy's rules of play are not being followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e455	I have no reason as a municipal minister to be with and build up under such a pessimistic picture of local democracy in our country. I have no reason to believe that a user of local democracy in such a way that in many cases one is almost conscious – now I am not going to use the word ‘corruption’ – trying to influence the outcome in the case through the procedure that, among other things. is outlined here, and I will not comment any closer. On the contrary, I have the impression that Norwegian municipalities are doing a solid job ensuring that the legal rules are followed. They do that in very good cooperation with the county council. The county does a good job towards the county in providing guidance, not least within the legal framework, within the law, where, of course, there will be varying degrees of competence. This country is going to be used very much. I think it's important that one has such an instance that can both guide and carry out law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e462	One follow-up question has been asked – Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e465	There's no doubt that there's alarming information coming out here. What gives added cause for concern is that Harstad must be able to be a large municipality in Norway, with more than 20,000 inhabitants, so it is a municipality that is several times larger than the average of Norwegian municipalities. So that means that Harstad will be much more closely followed up by both the audience and the media than many of the smaller municipalities we have. Of the 430 municipalities we have in Norway, there are 30 municipalities that have less than 1,000 inhabitants. The Utsira is the smallest with a little over 200 inhabitants. There are also other problems associated with small municipalities, among others. inability, which may be difficult to practice. Then is my question to the Council of State: What has been done since the Central Party took over the Ministry of Local Affairs to ensure that democratic principles are followed up, and that laws and rules are followed in the Municipality of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e474	First, I have to comment on the insinuation that the small municipalities necessarily have a worse view than the larger ones. Maybe it's the other way around? Perhaps in smaller municipalities there are more transparency, more transparency, greater openness and easier and shorter paths between the controllers and the controllers? So when it comes to democracy, I don't think there's necessarily any inconvenience that there's a short way between the different authorities in a municipality. From the department's point of view, we are very concerned to emphasise the importance of the role of municipalities in democracy. It has also been linked to the role of the municipalities, and it will also be linked to matters that we are going to present in the future. The largest and closest now will be the Land and Municipality Storingsbericht.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e481	Let's move on to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e484	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. The last day, I've had the pleasure of thinking highly with the Center Party in the case of the Norwegian Cultural Council, because the Center Party would like to move the tasks out to the county councils. In addition to that highly thought, I have also noticed that the other government parties in Stortinget have thrown themselves on a frustration in relation to the concentration of power and centralization about Oslo. The Chairman of the Committee, the Labour Party Gunn Karin Gjul, was out in winter on the financial side of this in terms of where the money was spent. When the Central Party now chooses to take up this frustration and pass it on, and uses the Culture Council as an example, it must mean that they are not necessarily concerned about where the money is going, because the Council of Culture's money also gets a lot around the country – there are general arrangements that everyone can apply for. Then I guess that's the power concentration they worry about. Six years with the Labour Party in government have shown a significant concentration of power in relation to how the tasks are to be solved. We have seen a concentration of power on the Council of Culture, in the sense that the Council of Culture has been given more and more tasks. We have it in relation to the National Library, which has been given more and more tasks. We have it in relation to the National Museum, like this. took over the National Exhibitions. So you look at the area by area that there are fewer people who decide more. In addition, the budgets speak clearly in their own language, although there are changes there. Something is recorded at Oslo, which is going out in the country, but nevertheless there is no doubt that much of the money is going out in the big cities. My question to the Minister of Culture is: Is it time for a change of course? Will she listen to her fractions in Stortinget in making a turn of this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e497	The most important thing we can do to shift power from Oslo to Norway is to build stronger institutions in Norway. Construction of the North Norwegian Symphony Orchestra is one such example, Theater Inland is another such example. I mean, the conversion that we're now doing of the Riks Concerts, where we're actually moving more power out to local scenes, where they're allowed to decide who's going to go on the Norway Tour, is about the decentralization of power. I believe that it is no longer such that in order for us to get quality concerts all over Norway, we need two state directors to pick out the musicians who are going to spread concert experiences all over Norway. So I agree that we're going to decentralize more power in the cultural field, but I think what the representative is Thommessen's medicine is wrong. He believes that money should be transferred from the Council of Culture to an organisation responsible for managing business and culture interests. In my opinion, it is not to set cultural policy objectives in the high seat. However, we continue to monitor the way in which the funds go to the Council of Culture. We have said, in connection with the fact that we have transferred more power from the Ministry of Culture to the Council of Culture, that they should take greater account of regional policy. So this is an important discussion. But what's Right Medicine, I think is wrong in these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e504	Then the Council of State may not have fully understood what is Right Medicine. It is true that we want an organisation next to the Norwegian Cultural Council to spread power, but it is not an organisation that is to build on business; it is to be based on cultural policy considerations. What is Right Medicine, the Council of State would be able to read out of the budgets of the last few years. The right has taken money from the big institutions and transferred it to the free field. We've taken money from what's city centre to what it'll be possible to apply for everyone, and through it contribute to building a culture from below, across the country. We have wanted a stronger strengthening of the Regional Film Fund, which the Minister of Culture has not followed up, despite the very power-concentrating grip on the House of Film. We want to strengthen just the local environments around the country. So there is a bigger grip that is required, and that has to be reflected in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e512	I haven't had a meeting with all the major cultural organisations in Norway for so long, because they're busy making representations on how to build cultural policy in the future. I've asked them if they want to transfer money from the Cultural Council to the County Council, and the answer is unisontly no. On the contrary, they want the Cultural Council and others to be very concerned about spreading power and money throughout Norway, but no one says that the distribution of county funds is a way of spreading power and money. I totally disagree with what the representative says about our cultural policy. Indeed, the largest increase in the cultural budget during this period is VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations. There's more money for choirs. There is more money for those who work with the theater for children and young people. There's more money for local scenes. That's what we're primarily betting on in the cultural promise now. It's building Norwegian culture from below.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e519	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e522	I notice that the Council of State mentions building strong organisations around the country as one of the most important ways of delegating cultural power and commitment. It's bad with what we've seen in the last few years. I have been so lucky to be rapporteur in Grimstad, the city of the poets, and led the city through two author's birthdays. Before the Hamsun jubilee we contacted the other Hamsun communities in Norway, formed a community, created a preliminary project and sent a letter to the ministry that we were ready to arrange the anniversary. We had a lot of commitment: we'll do this -- how can we get help? After a long time, we received a reply that this was to be added to the National Library. Then we contacted the National Library to find out how to do this. They said we had to wait and see, because they had not received any funds. Is it building strong organisations around the country and taking care of the commitment around the country? What is the strategy behind this type of activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e527	This is, of course, a strategy that we, for example: has had when we have celebrated great Norwegian authors. The Bjørnson anniversary last year was coordinated by the National Library, but the largest events were at Aulestad and at Nesset. There were celebrations and markings all over Norway. So I believe that we have a strong national library that manages these funds, does not mean that there will be no activities elsewhere in the country. On the contrary, I have felt that otherwise in the country you are very pleased with the way such celebrations are arranged.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e532	Ib Thomsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e535	There has been a lot of debate about the Riks Concerts and the clipping of the Riks Concerts. The national concerts have had the primary task of travelling around the country and spreading good concerts in all districts. As a cultural politician in the Progress Party, I get many enquiries from the districts that much is centralised in Oslo – the Culture Council, the Ministry of Culture. The Culture Council gets more tasks, and you feel a frustration out there. Then it's a little bit daunting when the Center Party comes up with the idea that they want to decentralize, to add more to the municipalities. After all, it's all the municipalities that see and have local knowledge of culture, and where to spend the money. So this is in line with what the Progress Party means in the districts. What must be done, and what can be done? What will the Council of State do to create this model, which is the new government policy and the Central Party? This is fascinating.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e542	We will change this, for example. through the Riks Concerts. Let's take a place like Eidsvoll, which hasn't been visited by the Riks Concerts in many years. Now we're converting the scheme by transferring more to local organizers. Then Eidsvoll jazz club, then Karmøy Metal, then Blackland jazz club can arrange their own concerts themselves, without it being a state director who has picked out who is going to tour around Norway. I believe this has to do with the decentralization of power. I believe that the most important thing we do within the cultural promise now is to give more money to local cultural organizations, more money to choirs, more money to corps, so that those who are on the line will sell less cake weight and stand on more for their kids. For me, it's about building culture from below.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e549	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e552	As cultural workers, we receive many requests from people around the country who are concerned about the power concentrated in Oslo, particularly in the Council of Culture. It's not surprising, what the Council of State says, that if you ask the big national cultural organizations, they don't want to deal with 19 county councils, but they think it's very good that you have one big, strong, powerful and national Norwegian cultural council. But it must just be the critical voices that are around the country, which the cultural-political spokesmen of the Central Party have caught up when she – yesterday – says that the county councils have to say more. So the question for the Minister of Culture must be: what is the Central Party's cultural-political spokeswoman who has misunderstood, since she believes that more power needs to be spread out into the country, into the counties, so that they can get more to say about how to distribute the funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e557	In recent years, we have committed a larger transfer of funds to counties and municipalities. This allows the counties to distribute more cultural crowns around the whole of Norway. But I am not a member of a scheme in which we transfer money from the Council of Culture to the county councils. It's not that those who are against this are big, strong actors. It is the League of Corsica, it is the League of Corps, which is more satisfied with these means, among other things. be distributed through Freefonds funds. I think it's worth listening to those who have experience, democratically built cultural organisations that are democratically anchored. They do not recommend such a solution. I believe that the Culture Council should distribute funds more widely throughout Norway. But the most important changes we have made in the field of culture lately are transferring power from the Ministry of Culture to the Council of Culture, so that they can spread funds across Norway. For me, it's about the decentralization of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e566	Yes, now the Council of State admits it. She has transferred a lot of power from the Ministry of Culture to the Council of Culture, from a Council of State that has to answer for itself in Parliament, to an organisation that is quite closed, which is run by a few professional communities, which do not ask questions in the Storting and must be responsible for the things they do. It is a massive transfer of power that the Council of State has made to the Council of Culture, she must admit that. The production of culture is something other than the production of hip operations or the construction of houses. Culture is an opinion. That is why we are now fighting for freedom of expression in Norway when we fight for culture and for cultural expressions. The move of power into enclosed spaces, the move of power away from a councillor – who has to be put to the wall here in the staging room – and into a room where no one can really ask questions, and the fact that there are actually a few artists in certain artistic environments who decide: Isn't there any reflection in the council that this is actually about freedom of expression and is a cultural policy question besides that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e577	The representative can put me to the wall whenever she wishes. But the truth is that the various Committees of the Council of Culture – whether they are musicians or artists or theatre artists – consist of a variety of people from all over Norway. In the past, it was more important to know someone on the Culture Committee in order to increase their budget. I think it's crazy politics. On the contrary, I believe that there are those who know the music life, throughout Norway, who should manage cultural resources more fully. For me, it's about the decentralization of power. The Council of Culture and the tasks of the Council of Culture have increased, and I believe that this is very important, because they have a competence that is useful to bring with them. For me, it's about less power for the Ministry of Culture and more power for cultural life itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e584	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e596	There will be two changes in the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Torgeir Tåldal to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 6, from the representative Abid Q. Raja to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e609	‘On 24 May, the Revy announced that some host municipalities for farming facilities would like to have an opportunity to tax the establishments in order to increase the benefit of the community. The arguments put forward were taken from the Right's justification for keeping a share of the corporation tax locally. Would the Council consider going back to a system where a small proportion of corporation tax falls to municipalities in order to promote both understanding and positive attitudes towards business locally?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e621	From 2005 to 2008, municipalities received a share of the corporate tax. The tax revenue was added to the municipalities via the framework transfers, and the distribution of corporation tax between municipalities was based on a municipal distribution of employment in the enterprises tax equalisation. That scheme was terminated in 2009. The municipalities were then compensated for by the increase in other revenues. The conversion must be seen in the context of the fact that corporation tax has significant weaknesses as the basis of income for municipalities. An important reason is that corporation tax fluctuates significantly. By making the corporation tax state and giving other income to municipalities instead, the income of the municipal sector has become more predictable. It is an advantage in relation to the planning and operation of the important welfare services for which the municipalities are responsible. In view of the size of the municipal sector, predictability is also important for the development of Norwegian municipalities and of the Norwegian economy. Income from corporate taxes is not evenly distributed geographically. As a result, the liquidation of municipal corporation tax has contributed to a more even distribution of income between municipalities. Then there may be arguments that by giving company tax back to the municipalities, one gives local incentives for economic development. But I would argue that the main incentive for industrial development in municipalities is to obtain more stable and predictable taxpayers, and then it's the population and personal taxpayers who probably have the greatest interest and the most important weight in that way. The income system for municipalities involves a high degree of cohesion between municipalities. In practice, municipalities with low tax revenues per capita are raised to a level of income of 93-94 pst. of the national average through tax equalisation. Many municipalities with coastal farming facilities have relatively low tax revenues per capita. For example, Steigen, who was brought forward in the news release on 24 May, had a tax income per capita of about approx. 70 pst. of the national average. The reintroduction of municipal corporation tax could, in isolation, give more tax revenue to, for example: The rise, but for municipalities where the tax revenue per capita is not brought over 90 pst. in relation to the national average, the increased revenue will be broadly matched by the corresponding lower tax equalisation. My answer is, with reference to a discussion we had in Stortinget yesterday in connection with a document proposal, that we have no plans to reintroduce a share of the corporate tax to the municipalities. I believe that the system we have today gives greater predictability to the local government sector, and that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e638	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In my home country, the South Throne Team, we have a very beautiful coast. I don't know if the Minister of Finance has had the pleasure of visiting the beautiful island, not least the municipalities of Hitra and Frøya, where the farming industry means a lot to the total value creation. My impression is that municipalities with such industries are stretching very far in order to enable the industry to develop further in order to create more jobs, leading to our common well-being. Now, when we see that so many of the rapporteurs are calling for more funds to be returned to the municipalities, and we not least see that the industry itself is very positive in contributing to the development of local communities, I just have to ask whether the Council of State thinks it is right to introduce other bureaucratic and costly arrangements rather than corporate taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e645	I've had the pleasure of traveling in the South-Trøndelag and the North-Trøndelag and otherwise, and I think it's nice there too, as there are many other places in the country. What I referred to was that in Stortinget yesterday we discussed a Document 8 proposal, Document 8:137 LS for 2010–2011, about returning parts of the corporate tax. That proposal was defeated, but I see that there may be arguments that corporate tax is important in this way. This is in so far a discussion that has been going on for a time, in which company tax has gone out a little and into the local government sector a little depending on the economic situation in the business world. I still believe that the most important thing is that the municipalities have predictable tax revenues, and that the personal tax is more predictable. I think both Hitra and Frøya and other municipalities are probably so concerned that these companies create lasting jobs for people living in the area. As a result, there is a strong incentive for business development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e652	Now we see that the fisheries and aquaculture industry itself is very concerned about having a good relationship with the communities, and wants to contribute to the further development of these small communities. Not least, we see that the rapporteurs are quite clear that even if the government says no, they do not intend to give in to this matter. I guess the Minister of Finance got it too. When I hear that the Minister of Finance himself says that the local incentive for business is important, I wonder what can be a response to these rapporteurs and not least to the industry itself, when they want to contribute more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e657	There may be many answers to this, including: the development of more regional policy and district policy instruments. At the same time, it will be that, in addition to personal taxes, they are linked to those who work on, for example: a farm, the ringing effects of a farm may be quite significant for other industries in the community that provide commercial activities and other things. I would like to think that driving economic development in a municipality from a slightly broader perspective is important anyway. Then, in my view, the corporate tax becomes somewhat less in that context. Then I would like to remind you that the municipalities of course have the opportunity to obtain more long-term and predictable tax revenues through property taxes, so that the municipalities have more instruments. But yes, rapporteurs are engaged, and that is good. And rapporteurs who are engaged, we should have, also in the field of business development. I think that corporate tax is important, but a far less important than the other things I've pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e675	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e682	‘At DPS Hamar, there are now 26 weeks waiting time from the time of referral until the patient meets a specialist. According to Hamar Arbeiderblad 15 and 23 May, some patients wait up to 19 months. Many patients also wait about the same hour in a psychologist’s office. When patients, who are in many cases suicidal, have to wait too long for treatment, this has serious consequences. What is the reason why, despite the availability of available capacity, the government will not ensure that mentally ill people receive treatment within a reasonable period of time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e689	Patients in need of immediate help will receive treatment without waiting. Otherwise, priority guides are used in assessing the maximum waiting time for different diagnostics. The Patient Rights Act shall assess the right to necessary health care and the maximum waiting time for treatment within a maximum of 30 days. For children and young people up to 23 years of age, the waiting time guarantee applies in the field of mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment. This implies that these assessments shall take place within 10 days of receipt of the referral and that no person entitled to the necessary health care shall wait longer for treatment than 65 working days. In the case of questions about the need for immediate assistance and assessment of maximum waiting time, the risk of suicide is a central assessment theme. If treatment cannot be provided within the deadline, the patient should be briefed and the service should take the initiative to offer from other DPS. If a patient has not received treatment within the maximum scheduled waiting time, this will be a deadline. The patient may notify the deadline breach to HELFO, which will then find an alternative offer at the expense of the health business. Experience has shown that most patients choose to remain on the waiting list at their DPS. The proportion of time-limit breaks has been included as a management parameter in the 2011 mission document and the target is zero time-limits. Health South-East states that this has been included in the order and order for all health businesses. Follow-up to the objectives is carried out through ongoing reporting and is submitted to the Management Board in monthly and quarterly reports, in annual reporting. It shall also be part of the ongoing and reported risk assessment of the group of undertakings. The Hospital Inland HF is systematically working to reduce the number of deadlines, and Health South-East reports that the number has been reduced, from 83 in January to 28 in February and 22 in March. In the case of the 19-month waiting newspaper, Health South-East informed that the Hospital Inland is following this case specifically with a view to assessing failure and deviation. The sharp increase in the number of referrals during and after the Roadworthiness Plan for Mental Health has given health professionals a challenge in complying with the legislation relating to maximum time limits for evaluation and treatment. This is not enough reason for not complying with the rules, and I expect the governance signals to be followed up loyally by regional health companies. The size will be kept informed of developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e700	I thank you for your answer. I am also aware that this patient has received help. But this applies to a lot of people. Now the state council has explained to the systems and how they work, and it's precisely these systems that lead to very, very many people not getting help. After the long waiting period, it is only when you reach a DPS that you get a proper diagnosis and have to assess your situation in relation to the priority regulation. People get referral from their doctors, but they don't get to DPS. The waiting time is too long, and it's suicidal people. Does the Council not agree that there are too many serious incidents in the media where the sick person has sought help up to many times but has not been treated? So they get help too late after the serious incident, or they have to stand up in the media with the stress it brings on the sick and their families, as this lady has done – whether it is sick people who are not being treated in time and who are in a queue for treatment. Is there not a poor prevention of disease development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e707	Well, standing too long in a queue is not good prevention for anyone. However, as I tried to explain, after receiving a referral, there should be an assessment within 10 working days in the case of persons under 23 years of age, and otherwise within 30 days. What is important is that these deadlines are respected. Otherwise, you have to use the usual priority guides, which are designed precisely because you have to get hold of the sick first. So I want to say that in the case of the Inland Hospital, I have looked at average waiting times. Average expectations are higher than those likely to be expected, but they have decreased — from 73 days in January to 63 days in March. Also in mental health it goes the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e714	The fact that it's going the right way doesn't help all those who stand for too long and wait. In the case of those in need of emergency assistance, it takes 14 days today. It was a case we heard about now, with one who self-damaged, and who sat at home and was in a terribly difficult situation. The person mentioned in the paper here was a suicidal person. I am also aware of serious illness with suicidal thoughts that have succeeded in taking their own life because they have not been treated in time. This applies to a lot of people. It's big numbers of darkness. Why does the Council of State not want to open up time for treatment, by using private psychologists and psychiatrists and the capacity that actually exists in the healthcare system, rather than having long waiting times with the serious consequences that it has for both the sick and their families? I also see that mentally ill people have an increase in disability and long-term sick messages. It must be a goal in itself to cut the waiting time. There shall be no waiting time whatsoever for those who are suicidal. They must receive continuous follow-up. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e721	Those in need of emergency treatment should be treated in an emergency and should be treated in an acute manner. Obviously, when we say that there are deadlines, when we say that HELFO has to help the patient find an alternative, it's just that you shouldn't wait beyond the treatment deadline set. That's the system, and that's the way it should be. Patients shall be protected within the time limits set as sound time limits. When it comes to using private or alternatives, you do it, but it's also the way you use them, you have to have an agreement with them in advance, so you know what they actually offer. Here we have been talking about referring to another DPS in the Inland Hospital. I just have to say that here, in fact, it is very important that healthcare companies work actively to ensure that patients do not wait longer than what is set as a proper treatment deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e732	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The National Strategy Plan for Work and Mental Health 2007–2012 triggered resources for actions related to an increasing group of young people. Establishing new services for people with mental disorders requires thorough preparation and careful approach, and is not least a long and fragile process. Exciting measures are now in place, and experience shows that new groups of young people can be helped to complete studies and to participate in the labour market. How will the Council of State ensure resources for continued efforts at the end of the planning period?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e741	The current national strategy plan for work and mental health is an important initiative to be continued in 2012. The Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health and Welfare are responsible for the strategy plan and the plan is jointly implemented by the Directorate of Labour and the Directorate of Health. Although one and a half years remain until the end of the strategy plan, the two departments and the Directorates have started to assess how the follow-up to the initiative is to be carried out. I intend to return to Stortinget with a statement on the matter in connection with the State budget for 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e748	I thank you for the answer, but I was afraid that it was something like that. These diseases with depression and anxiety are one of the fastest growing health disorders. This project aims to prevent disability and an important contribution is to help young people complete education. Such projects have now been established. As for the University of Agder, I've had the pleasure of visiting the project that's there. There, an individual is employed through this project to follow, to support, to encourage, and this enables new young people to complete their education. They've started on a long run. What is important for these persons — both employees and users — is predictability. Getting it into the 2012 budget – i.e. in October/November 2011 – is very late, because long-term efforts are needed here. Doesn't the Council of State see that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e757	But I have just said that this project will be continued in 2012, and it will be from 2013 onwards to look at the continuation. I must, with all due respect, say that I believe I have answered the question when the representative asks: How will the Council of State secure resources for continued efforts when the planning period expires? It will be continued in 2012, and in the 2012 budget – almost a year and a half before 2013 – we will be briefing on how to continue this and how to continue it. Here, too, I just have to say that there are two departments in there, and the Ministry of Labour is actually heavier than the Ministry of Health, with 225 million. The Ministry of Health and Health has 25 million. kr, which is managed through the Directorate for Health, which carries out this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e762	I heard what the Council of State said, and I understand that there is probably some text in the budget for 2012. What is the great fear of those who are in this system, and of not talking about those who are not in the system, is that this should end up as one of the normal Nav measures. This is a group that demands predictability and resources, and is growing. At the health services of the student organisations at the University of Oslo, there were 1,200 who were denied their last semester of psychology. Of these, there was 10 pst. which was not received later in the semester but which had to wait until next year. So there's a growing group here and now, that really needs follow-up, and that needs to know that they can get help in the future. It's a long run. Will the Council take it seriously and promise this project, and not just come back to it in the budget with a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e767	I fully agree with Mr Harberg that this is an important target group, an important group that absolutely needs support and guidance. As far as I have heard from this project, there are many good measures, and that is a good project. So the planning period is out of 2012, and then I say that I'm going back to the 2012 budget – so at the beginning of October, the representative will be briefed on how this is going to go on from 2013. And then we have to do all the assessments of the project, also about how this should be in the future in view of other measures. After all, as I understand it, it is also widespread use of volunteers here who assist in various projects around. All of this we need to get an overview of before we can say how this is going to continue from 2013. But that it is an important target group, I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e776	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The costs to health businesses related to the use of medicinal products are very high, and it is important, with the hospital economy we now see, that we always focus on how to make the most of the resources available. Since its inception in 1995, drug procurement cooperation has saved Norwegian hospitals from excessive costs through their efforts to improve purchasing systems and obtain good tenders. However, the scheme has not been evaluated since its last reorganisation in 2002/2003. Will the Council of State initiate an evaluation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e785	Regional health undertakings have concluded a cooperation agreement on the procurement of medicinal products to health businesses. The name of the contract is Medical Products Purchasing Cooperation, abbreviated to LIS. LIS is an administrative part of the Hospital Apotetes and has its own board of directors appointed by the RHF Directors. Hospital pharmacists are under contract obliged to make administrative resources available for cooperation. There is also a separate technical council to advise the LIS administration on recommendations and the choice of medicinal products on behalf of the participants. The purpose of drug procurement cooperation is to provide the basis for contracts for the purchase and supply of medicinal products and other pharmaceutical products on the behalf of health-care establishments, thereby reducing costs. The LIS obtains offers for all medicinal products used in health establishments. It's a considerable amount of money that we're talking about. In 2009, health care businesses purchased medicinal products for 3.4 billion. kr. I am well aware of the significant savings that have been achieved in the last 15 years through the cooperation on drug procurement organised by the LIS in Norwegian hospitals. There is a high level of professional activity in the many local committees, the pharmacies staff contribute to a large extent, and the purchasing authorities have streamlined contacts with the pharmaceutical suppliers. Of course, regional health enterprises, such as LIS owners, also have a great interest in the optimal functioning of cooperation. I would therefore like, in consultation with regional health businesses, to assess the need for an evaluation of drug procurement cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e796	I interpret it as a very positive response from the Minister of Health and Care, that the Minister of Health and Care will now look at this. Because it is clear that the most important thing to get a well-functioning LIS collaboration is that you have a transfer of competences, not only within Health South-East, which has the primary responsibility here, as LIS is actually subject to the Hospital Apotetes in Health South-East, but also that the other RHFs benefit from the knowledge that is there. The LIS cooperation and the purchasing system have resulted in significant savings for the State, and perhaps it is also appropriate to consider whether there are other public establishments that have something to learn in this context. One of the things you should definitely be looking at is the organization. At least I would recommend the Council of State, among others. to assess a model that transforms LIS into a separate undertaking or an AS, each of which has its own member of the board of directors — regional health enterprises — just for ownership of this cooperation, and hopes that this may be part of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e801	I thank you for the recording, and I'll definitely look at it. But as I understand it, it's the RHFs that are together on the LIS, who also appoint the representatives of the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e806	In fact, LIS is now deployed as an integral part of the ANS, as it is hot, in Health South-East. But these are things you should look at. The background for not doing anything special about this could be that you've seen that LIS has worked and that you've had a lot of savings. The only thing is that we have to look at how we can exploit this further, to the joy of both the public and, not least, of the patients. It is clear that if we can bring down, among other things, the prices of hospitals also on the expensive and more effective medicinal products, freeing it of actual resources for other tasks, so that more people can receive treatment, and, in particular, proper treatment. I hope at least that evaluation will take place. In any case, the undersigned very much wishes to make representations on the matter, as formerly rapporteur for both the Pharmacy Act and other pharmaceutical matters. But it's important to get started, so you learn from the process that LIS has opened up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e813	I've said that we will do this, but there's something that has to be done with the RHFs, and I'm going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e822	This question, from the representative Abid Q. Raja to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e825	‘The population of wild salmon in Norway is at a historically low level, although the incidence of salmon increased slightly in 2010, a report by the Scientific Council for Salmon Management delivered to Minister for the Environment and Development Erik Solheim on Wednesday 25 May. The Council of State stated: ‘What we need to do now is to take new steps to help the farming industry overcome the problems.’ What new grip does the Council of State see?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e832	Initially, I would like to say that from yesterday's TV reports about the start of the wild fish, it is promising – and that is good. On behalf of the Minister for the Environment, I would also like to begin by pointing out that the agricultural policy is the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, while the Minister for the Environment has a special responsibility for the wild species. In the context of an interpellation by the representative Trine Skei Grande in October 2010, the Minister for the Environment of the Storting explained the situation to the wild. In addition, in February 2011 the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast made a statement on the Maritime Policy for the Storting, which also referred to the relationship between farming and wild breeds. Scientific advice on salmon management is an independent advice established by the Directorate for Nature Management, which, through annual reports, describes the stock status of Norwegian wild species, assesses threats and provides advice on the level of taxation and other issues affecting the wild species. Scientific Council for Salmon Management issued on 24 May this year its annual status report on the wild axis of the Directorate for Nature Management. The next day there was a press seminar on the matter, at which the Minister for the Environment also wanted to be present. In this report, the Council has assessed the achievement of broodstock targets in 210 salmon populations and has given advice on taxation based on stock status assessment in 2009 and 2010. The brood stock target is a measure of the amount of wild salmon needed to exploit the reproductive potential of the watercourses. The catch in the assessed watercourses is 98 pst. of reported salmon catches in Norwegian salmon waters. The main message in this year’s status report is that the incidence of salmon to Norway was historically low in 2010, though there was a small increase from 2009. The most marked change in salmon stocks status for 2009 to 2010 is that the catch has been reduced so much by regulation that the spawning stock targets have been achieved in most stocks. Over-taxation in Norwegian salmon has decreased after the last regulations. One exception is the Tana River Strait, where negative stock development is likely to be related only to overtaxation. There are slight changes in the threat assessment from 2009 to 2010. Salmon and escaped farmed salmon continue to appear as unstabilised and existential threats to Norwegian wild salmon. These threat factors are likely to be important reasons for particularly low understanding of salmon and poor target achievement in many populations in parts of the West. Taxation in this region is very low, and many of the watercourses and fjords are now unfortunately closed to fishing. Government implements a number of measures to reduce the environmental impacts of aquaculture. The measures follow from the government’s strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry, presented by the Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in April 2009. The main challenges today are related to escape and lynx. In February 2011, the so-called Land Selection handed over the report «Effective and sustainable land use in the aquaculture industry – area to be desired» to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. The site selection made a number of proposals. Which proposals the government is continuing to make, I cannot decide at this stage – at least not signed. The Committee's report is now being consulted, and the government will start its follow-up work after the hearing has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e853	Check out the salmon for these two check-out guys here! It was taken in Namsen tonight – 21.4 kg. [[The representative shows a picture.]] Both the Minister of Justice and I are concerned with legal certainty, and I am also concerned about the security of life of the wild. Yesterday I was at the doctoral thesis for Anne Magnusson. Her thesis shows how a clear analytical distinction between scientific, technological and practical knowledge becomes irrelevant because the actions are adapted to situations. Magnussøn further shows how the breeder's objective of producing the most fish in the shortest possible time and the practical organisation of the work provide clear guidance on what knowledge is possible and relevant. What I'm asking is what action the Minister of Justice will take to ensure the wild species' safety of life in relation to the farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e862	The President is in doubt as to what arrest the Minister of Justice may take, but we need to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e865	As an ordinary ordinary member of the government, I must also be involved in the development of policy in this area. It's actually an area that interests me a lot. I am delighted to be allowed to do so, among other things. to participate in fishing for salmon by August. This is important. It was announced by the Minister for the Environment, together with the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, concerning, inter alia: the work to be done and the actions that can be seen to be effective will be important. But as I said in my main answer, it is difficult for me now to anticipate what the government comes to from conclusions, in addition to saying that there are proposals on the table that the government is now considering, and which I hope will also be effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e872	According to Bergen’s Official Journal, environmental protection minister Erik Solheim stated that today’s wild fish population is alarming, especially in the West. Fördefjorden was adopted as a national salmon fjord in 2007 and has three salmon-bearing watercourses. The salmon strain in Jölstra is threatened, and the salmon strain in Redalselva is described as genetically peculiar. In connection with the establishment of mining operations, the largest waste site in northern Europe at sea is planned in this fjord. All the smolt and salmon on their natural migration to and from the sea must pass this waste site, as it extends over the entire breadth of the fjord. For national salmon fjords, it has been considered that establishments at risk of serious contamination shall not be permitted. I now know that this matter is at the Minister for the Environment's table. My question is whether the Council of State will be uncompromising on the part of the wild on the issue of the establishment of mining in Førdefjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e881	This is a matter that lies at the Minister for the Environment's table, and I am convinced that he would have been black enough to wait for the outcome of the assessment that you have and that you do in close cooperation with the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department. But I am quite convinced that it is a genuine will of all governments and the entire government to ensure the valuable gold that the wild beast actually represents, even in concrete local matters. But as to what the conclusion is in this case, I have to ask the representative to wait until the Environment Minister has concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e890	‘On 20 June 2010, the police officer in Sogn and Fjordane sent letters to the Police Directorate proposing to merge Sogndal and Leikanger County. The decision was taken in consultation with the two borrowers and employee organisations. The Municipal Council of Leikanger has provided support. On 3 August 2010, the Police Directorate sent a letter to the Ministry of Justice supporting the police officer’s proposal. When will the police officer get an answer to the question of merging the two county councils, and what will be the answer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e897	Last August, the Police Directorate sent a proposal to merge Sogndal and Leikanger County. The proposal was supported by the municipality of Leikanger, which is most affected by the changes, and by the workers’ organisations concerned. I just want to stay a little bit on it, because it's actually good processes that are going on. What's imperative to do some structural action is to be able to involve local actors and stakeholders in the organisations. In general, the organisation of the policing and county councils is also a very important theme in the forthcoming report on the performance reform and the further development of the police and county councils. In this way, such a local process may shed light on much of the work to be outlined in that message. The notification shall include, inter alia: contribute to a broad discussion in the United Kingdom on principles, frameworks and measures in the further development of the Police and Leniency College. In this context, the first line service of the police, which is the part of the police with which the public and community come into contact on a daily basis, will also be discussed. However, there is no need to outline concrete changes at the level of the county council in this Communication. However, the Communication will point to principles and criteria that one believes should underpin the further development of the local structure of police districts. In this context, the Ministry has discussed how to follow up local individual proposals for border adjustments and groupings of county councils. Since these proposals are based largely on local consensus and may have a significant impact on the quality of the local police service, one, so far, has chosen to sue and promote these matters for the King of the Council of State. I do not think it is right to anticipate what the conclusion is on the matter in question, in addition to saying that we are soon at the end of the procedure, and in this way: A clarification is just about the corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e910	I thank you for a very bad answer. The Chief of Police is taking such action to strengthen the police force. Sogn and Fjordane are a pig-grown country with large distances, fjords and mountains. It requires good police personnel. Sogn and Fjordane have good numbers when it comes to crime. Police have their share of the era for it – both preventive work and good cooperation with the municipality. The Chief of Police in Sogn and Fjordane want to give priority to this work. To do so, he needs resources, including: reorganisation, as referred to in the question. In 2020, there is a target for two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants. What will the Council of State do to raise the police coverage in Sogn and Fjordane, from today's 1.1 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants to 1.5 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants, as requested by the police officer in order to perform good police services?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e919	Then I want to do what the Right didn't do when you had government responsibility for a few years back with regard to admission to the Police College, which was all the way down to 240 students. If we're going to get more policemen in Sogn and Fjordane, we're dependent on training more policemen. That's why the Red-Green government has tripled the police college admission, and so over the last few years, we've trained 1,600 more policemen than what was done under the previous government. That's the only grip we can do. It is also gratifying that the police college students who have come out are now in work, sailing if it is produced as if the opposite is the case. We're also going to have a big recording this fall. I am convinced that it will also ensure that we will achieve the targets set by the police against 2020. So I'm reminding you that you proposed a recording of 550 students to achieve the goal. The government has chosen 720.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e926	We have received this answer from the Minister of Justice here in the Chamber at several times. I want to use Martin Kolberg's expression: it's talk, talk and talk from the Minister of Justice's side. When the police don't have money for more police posts, how are you going to increase the police coverage in Sogn and Fjordane?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e933	With respect to reporting: if the representative Lødemel believes that it is ‘talk, talk and talk’ that the police college has tripled, and that police appropriations have increased in Norway in the same period by between 3 and 4 billion. kr – this is therefore an increase in the respective police districts, which has increased the number of police posts with over 1,700 annual work at the same time – is due to the demander’s bill. So there are two steps you can take to increase police force out there and more policemen out there. It's training more – do not do as the Right did when they were in government. The second thing, of course, is to increase the chances of employing these people. And I'm glad that of the big hill we graduated last year, it's 94 pst. who is now at work. It's not talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e942	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Refer to written question No. 507 and No 690 for 2010–2011. The person concerned has now been informed that the exclusion from hunting will last for two years from 18 January and for two years. Arms were withdrawn in 2009 and hunting bans have been in force for a year and a half. Real punishment thus becomes close to twice what the judgment calls for. The case seems very unreasonable, but is rejected for review by the Legal Affairs Directorate. Will the Council of State address the matter and prevent individuals from being penalised more than is the case in judgment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e951	I would like to refer to my and Grete Faremo's previous answers to the representative's written questions on the same matter. I see that we're really answering the same thing all along, because I feel that the question is the same. I was also available last Wednesday to answer this question. On a general basis, reference may be made to weapons legislation, which regulates recall of weapons cards and firearms. This can be seen, among other things: that if the holder of a weapons card no longer complies with the requirements of soberness or reliability or if, for special reasons, he can be considered unfit to have firearms, the police chief is obliged to withdraw the weapons card. The central theme of the judgement in the event of withdrawal of the weapons card is the same in substance as when authorisation is granted, including, inter alia: whether there are any circumstances in which the person concerned is not reliable as regards the possession of firearms. The most practical basis for revocation is the conviction of a criminal offence that has an impact on their reliability. If the weapons card is revoked, this means that the firearms must be returned to the police immediately. As for the particular matter referred to here, I would like to ask for an understanding that I do not want to comment or intervene in it. We shall be very careful to establish a practice in which a State Council intervenes in individual cases, and in particular where a decision by the overall Board of Appeal has been taken in an appeal case. I have previously been informed by the Police Directorate that the adopted administrative case was decided by the Police Directorate on 21 October 2009. The Directorate maintained when the decision of Hedmark Police District to withdraw his or her weapons card, etc. The decision of the Police Directorate in the appeal proceedings shall not be subject to appeal. the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Administrative Act. However, on a general basis, I would like to refer to the general right to bring administrative decisions before the Civil Ombudsman or General Courts. Finally, I can inform you that the government has set up a sample to carry out an overall review of existing weapons legislation and to propose new weapons laws, or to make the necessary changes to existing weapons legislation, in the light of societal developments and future challenges. The term of office of the panel shall include: in particular, withdrawal, etc. shall be considered. of firearms and ammunition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e964	It's true, as the Council of State says, that the question has been asked and answered in the past. That's why I wanted to take it up orally – I think the attack angle of the council is so wrong. So it's about a single person who in many ways, as I see it, is being persecuted a little bit by the administrative apparatus. And I've been a rather lonely wolf, perhaps more lonely and endangered than the Russian wolf we have, trying to draw attention to the distance that's going on out in District Norway to evolve between the administration, that apparatus, and people's general understanding of justice. So this man is convicted of running after a wolf, and then he is deprived of weapons and hunting for more than twice what the sentence says – as a result of running after a wolf. It happens at the same time that we see images on TV where people from the Directorate of Nature Management hang over the wolf in the helicopter. I would like to urge the Council of State to address that kind of issue, because I believe it is an administrative apparatus and a bureaucracy that goes too far towards individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e973	It's going to be the fourth time the question is asked, and my answer is really the same. I believe that, as politicians, we must have a general approach to what the legislation is like. We are given an opportunity to review the regulations and regulations relating to the possession of weapons. And then we get to take the signal from the representative of Gundersen that he believes that this is being persecuted. I do not want to conclude anything in the specific individual matter. This has been dealt with in the manner in which it is to be dealt with and the overall Board of Appeal has dealt with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e980	Then I just want to tell the Council of State that the complaint that was handled by POD was dealt with in 2009. It is still used as the reason why an administrative decision taken in 2011 cannot be appealed against, which is a decision that from January 2011 he will not be entitled to hunting, even though he has been deprived of both weapons and weapons since 2009. So it's obvious that there's something happening here. I'll basically just recommend it again. I believe the matter lies on a completely different level than regulations and regulations, and is about equal rules for King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker. I'm just looking at that area of significant challenges in that you're on your way to developing a distance between administration and what people see as general justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e987	If I'm just allowed to say, that's how individual matters can matter when you evaluate the general rules. I do not think the representative Gundersen should dismiss it as completely irrelevant, when one is now going to go through the rules for this, although I understand that it is difficult to resolve the matter in which the representative is involved. But if you really want to come to life what is described, that the administration is completely sidetracked, which I think it is not, you have to get good enough rules for both process and content – which make it very legitimate in the population. When we are going to have good rules in this area, we must first of all ensure that both the possession of weapons and the pursuit of hunting are sound, and in this way we can do what we can to ensure that no harm is done, neither on humans nor on the wild.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e998	The question is as follows: ‘The EU Commission’s proposals for the follow-up to the EU Green Paper on Freeing the potential of cultural and creative industries were expected in the summer of 2011. Network neutrality, digitisation, funding and copyright issues are being addressed. EU policies in these fields will have an impact on Norwegian content production. What approach will the Council of State adopt to the follow-up to these issues, and to what extent have Norwegian authorities been involved in the preparation of these proposals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e1007	We are well aware of the EU Green Paper on Freeing the potential and follow-up of cultural and creative industries. The EU is concerned that the creativity of cultural industries can help maintain the competitiveness of the EU. The Green Paper highlights the role of cultural industries in achieving the long-term objectives of development, employment and growth in the EU. The Ministry participates in the EFTA Working Group on Culture. There we have followed the work on the Green Paper and its follow-up. The EEA/EFTA countries provided a joint consultation response in the context of a formal consultation process carried out by the EU in spring 2010. It is of course of interest to follow the work and strategies of the EU in this area. The Green Paper captures trends and issues in culture and business that also affect Norwegian cultural industries. Many studies and surveys have been carried out on the importance of cultural industries, both in the EU and Norway. These show that these are very important industries, which are growing, and which have many employees. In Norway, two surveys have been carried out in the field of Eastern research. One shows that it was 35 pst. growth in the cultural industries from 1996 to 2007, and in 2007 almost 100 000 persons employed in these industries. Over the period 1995–2005, the value creation of cultural industries has increased by 58 pst. It's significant. We have been active in cultural and industrial development for a long time, and the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs have previously presented a joint action plan. There were a total of 25 measures that we have worked systematically with. We have also carried out a survey of cooperation between business and cultural industries. It has, among other things, a review of the Action Plans through Innovation Norway and Norwegian Cultural Councils. It points out that, in many areas, we can better coordinate our instruments, that there is a need for commercial expertise among a good number of cultural actors, that there are few in the cultural industries that identify themselves as entrepreneurs – despite their being so, and that they may need more competence in this area – and that the cultural field is largely project-oriented. Therefore, it is important to link more general competence to building business ideas. In addition, it is important for us that it is profitable to build up cultural industries digitally. These include: the reason why we have proposed changes to the copyright law, so that artists' copyright can be better protected online and that selling their culture can be profitable in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e1024	Thank you for a nice answer in many ways. I would like to give tribute to the government's draft consultation on the copyright law. I will not promise that we agree with each comma, but the main concepts that are now out for consultation, I think are the right course. Important premises to put in place the creative industries are the web neutrality issue, it's the copyright issue, and it's digitisation and funding. In terms of funding and digitisation, I think we are on quite a good path in Norway. As regards copyright and online neutrality, there may be a need to increase efforts. To take online neutrality first: being able – what to say – to operate freely online, the fact that even the small players want free online access is absolutely central. The weakness of Norway is that the neutrality mechanisms we have are voluntary, there are few sanctions, and they are easy to change based on technical changes. Will the State Council take an initiative to consolidate the position of network neutrality in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e1033	This with neutrality linked to digital or other communication was one of the reasons why we put down the Media Support Committee, just to see that it would be as profitable to produce a newspaper that had payment solutions online, as it was to launch it on paper. This is a work we systematically go through in all areas. Digitisation also gives cultural industries enormous opportunities if the copyright system is protected. And today, we are making a major contribution to the dissemination of culture through online schemes, by shifting some services online. So this is definitely a priority area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e1038	Within the Ministry of Culture, I see that you have web neutrality in the back of your head. But it's a little bit of a problem, as I see it, and it's that this is at an intersection, maybe, between the Department of Transport, which is involved in rolling out the cables to do, and the Ministry of Culture. I might have wished that the Minister of Culture had also put a little more pressure on the Minister of Transport in view of this with neutrality, but I am not going to demand any response to this today. As far as copyright is concerned, there are two perspectives that I think are very interesting, which have now emerged in the EU context. One is the clearance of copyright without a known author, and the other is the clearance of copyrights relating to the territories of other countries. There are two themes that I have so far not been able to see in the hearing draft that are out there – perhaps I am wrong. But there are at least two issues that I wonder if the minister will continue to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e1045	These are areas that we'll look at during the amendment of the copyright law. On the other hand, we have wanted to move forward more quickly in protecting copyright within the copyright law. That is why we have proposed legislative changes that we are now sending out to the hearing. But we're going to have a complete revision of the copyright law in a larger context, and we're going to come back to the Stortinget with proposals to modify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e1050	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-01.ana.ud1111e1063	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that the representative Thommess does not request the floor before the meeting is cancelled. - The meeting's been cancelled.
