ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e124	This is the second legislative procedure, ‘Latting procedure’. No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2943]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e142	This is also a second legal procedure. No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2943]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e160	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e169	It is essentially a pleasure to be the rapporteur for such an important matter and that there is an overall committee behind the position in the matter. There are some small nuances between the parties, but otherwise there is an overall committee that is very happy that this matter has come on the table. Too often we have been given examples in the media that show that there are abuses against children in the state's custody, which are not supposed to happen at all. Now putting in place proper measures to try as best we can to counteract this is very good. But then we must stress that the requirement for the certificates we are now adopting today cannot be left alone. There are also other measures that need to be put in place and the whole process needs to be focused on, so that we can protect the children who need it from abuse. What we're basing on in this case is the Police Register Act, which was passed in Stortingen some time ago, when we now put in place child care certificates in the field of child protection to improve protection against abuse or harmful influence on minor children in the state's custody. For those children out there who may have been subjected to abuse and harmful influence in their home, and where the state has entered and taken over, it is important that we ensure a safe growth. Then we have to do everything we can to put in place routines and a law that makes those who want to have the daily care of these children fit to do that job. What is the main essence of some of these matters is who can require a limited child care certificate. What is important is whether the individual’s task gives him a position that allows him to develop a trust relationship with the child. That is why it is important and essential to ensure that children are protected from abuse. It is an overall committee that agrees. Then there's a difference in the view of having exhaustive child care certificates. As it is today, it has not been permitted to require exhaustive police statements in child protection. That's why we're happy to get it in place today. But then there are a lot of hearings. I find it difficult that the State Health Authority believes that exhaustive certificates should also be required of support contacts and others who have similar regular contact with children. The ability of public authorities to have transparency and control is limited, so it is important that a proper thorough check has been carried out on the persons responsible for the child. That's why the Progress Party goes a little further than the rest of the Committee. We want the Stortinget to receive treatment for a new change in the law, which makes it possible to require comprehensive child care certificates from several. I am promoting this proposal. So what the impact of this remark is going to be. Today there are no rules on the consequences if you have a comment. That's why we're happy that this is going to work, so that you can extend the protection here as well. So until the issue of the renewal of child-care rights. Today, you can't demand police clearance from someone who's already employed. Therefore, it is important that we now get this in place, so that you can require a new police record of the employees. It's important to have such an access to reclaiming police clearance, because we know that things can happen, and it's important to get an opportunity to go back and demand this. It has to be made clear, like at least I see it. Then there's a small matter about the county council's supervision of the municipalities. The committee was visiting Tromsø, and what came up there in relation to the County Council in Troms, was that he actually called for consequences because the municipalities did not comply with the laws and regulations that they were set to observe. What the county wanted was to have sanctions. It should be in the municipal law, but we still believe that much clearer instructions should be put in place for the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e192	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e195	It is absolutely crucial that we ensure that a child who has suffered a care failure, a safe and effective child protection, and that children meet up with adult people in child protection that they can trust and that they feel confident in. We must have a clear law that guarantees children the best protection against abuse or other harmful influence. The changes currently proposed in the Children's Protection Act, on police certification requirements, etc., are very important in order to further strengthen the protection of children in the field of child protection. Safe adults are important in a child’s life. Many of the children who are under the care of child protection have experienced a great lack of this, and many have great difficulties in trusting and trusting in adults. Children shall not experience abuse and care failure or any other harmful influence under the care of child protection. There are many different measures and instruments that need to work together to make children in the care of their children feel safe and to form good, safe relationships with adults. A very primary and very serious task of child protection is to protect children from new abuses or further care failure. We should provide the children with the best security in meeting with new adults, who should be safe for them. By transposing the rules of police records on child-restraint services into child-restraint laws, better protection from abuse or serious harmful influence on minors is achieved. Childcare certificates are more extensive than the police certificates that you require today. Childcare certificates include comments related to sexual crime against adults, killings, drug crime and gross violence and criminality, as well as notes related to sexual crime against children. In addition, an exhaustive police certificate shall be required from foster parents and parents in the delivery centres. When you collect an exhaustive police statement, I think it's perfectly okay for you to open up to use the discretion of the less serious incidents, which would not be the result of a limited certificate. On the other hand, the Committee's plurality suggests that discretion cannot be used on a limited certificate, as it only shows the most serious aspects. I think we've seen serious and important examples lately that this shouldn't be based on judgement. On the limited certificates, we need clear rules to avoid doubt, for the benefit of children. The Progress Party proposes to require an exhaustive certificate also from support contacts and others who have similar and even contact with children. The Labour Party believes that this proposal is disproportionately strict, as a limited certificate will be covering. An exhaustive certificate covers all responses to offences against all prisons without a time limit. Less serious long-term gain crime will not necessarily give rise to doubt about the person’s property today. It is important to point out that the protection of children is provided by far more means in an institution than in a foster home or in a delivery home, and that it may be difficult in practice to choose the type of institutional settings for which an exhaustive certificate is to be required. Such a requirement is also, in our view, disproportionately strict control of the additions. In the new Police Register Act, it is open to demand a new police certificate attached to any criminal offences that have occurred since the inauguration. It is also important to see this in conjunction with the police’s duty to prevent crime. I would also like to show that, in connection with the treatment of police records laws, a proposal was discussed to require a new certificate every three years, as the Progress Party now proposes again. Only two years ago, it was agreed that such a home should not be included in the laws, but that instead, it should be decided to renew a background check in the case where the user of the information, for example: employers, have access to information which gives reason to believe that new information is of importance. The Ministry has argued that the renewal of background checks in the field of child protection must follow the appropriate demarcation. Nevertheless, we believe it is important that the Child Welfare Service has good internal procedures to assess the need for a new certificate of good conduct. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child requires the State to ensure that the institutions and services responsible for the care or protection of children have the standard established, with particular regard to safety, health and the number of added and their qualifications as well as competent supervision. In my opinion, this is absolutely essential for our political work, and I am therefore very pleased with the important changes that are now being made in the Children's Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e212	As both the case rapporteur and other representatives have been involved, the important changes we are making in the law today are, and I am pleased that there is agreement on such an important matter. Children entering child protection are in an extra vulnerable position, and they need additional protection. It is therefore of particular importance that adults responsible for and trusting with these children should be able to do so. The changes we're making today can be a tool to better evaluate it. Trust is a fragile thing, and the betrayal can be experienced twice as heavy and be twice as harmful if it happens again and again. The changes we are making today increase the protection of children in child protection. It's one important tool, and we have to look at many more in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e223	The right is pleased that the entire committee is behind this case, because it is important that we now have legislative changes that facilitate better protection of children in the field of child protection. By incorporating the police record rules on child care certificates into the Child Protection Act, a better protection against abuse or serious harmful influence on minors is achieved. One of our most important tasks is to protect the smallest. Protecting children – especially the most vulnerable children – from abuse is our most important responsibility. The right would stress that demands for police certificates alone are not enough. While it is important to require police evidence in order to prevent persons from committing an offence or having harmful influence on minor children, it is important that we also stress that the requirement for police attestations in the event of employment is only one of several means of protecting children from abuse. We therefore believe that it is very important to see this in conjunction with other measures to protect children in the field of child protection. It is essential that a defined child-care certificate is now required under the first paragraph of Section 39 of the Police Register Act by the person to be employed in the Child Protection Service, in an institution, or carrying out specific tasks in the field of child-protection. For the Right, we have some special comments. The first one is that we believe that even if there are reasons that argue that everyone who is in regular and close contact with minor children where the possibility of public access and control is limited, should be subject to an exhaustive certificate, this may go beyond the law on police records. Such a general requirement could lead to disproportionate control of people having different types of close relationships with children in relation to, for example: job as a support contact. The right will therefore stress the importance of ensuring the legal certainty of individual children. The right will also stress the importance of being open to people with a burdened past can also have a great deal to give to children and young people. One experiences even if you talk to a lot of young people at the institution, that it might be those who have been out a winter day before, from which the young people feel that they can get a lot of strength from. That's why it's important that one here uses a little bit of common sense, simply, in relation to these people. If, over a long life, a person has taken a settlement with his past and wants to start over, you have to make a judgement and give people a new chance, not least because perhaps some of them may have opportunities to contribute in the lives of those young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e234	Recruitment certificates are one of several instruments, but a central tool, to protect children from abuse. That's why it's also a very important matter we have to deal with. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals in the proposition. I just want to link some comments to a few of the elements of the legislative changes. With regard to the question of whether all comments should lead to exclusion from tasks to minors or, in some cases, to discretion, the Christian People's Party is concerned that it is important to be open to persons with a criminal past but who have left behind this past may have much to give to children and young people. If, over a long life, a person has taken a settlement with the past and wishes to restart, it is important that it is possible to make a judgement. The Government proposes discretionary access by an exhaustive certificate on anything other than that also appearing on the demarcated certificate. However, the government does not propose discretion in the case of a limited certificate, as was done in some cases in the consultation note. Sexual abuse of children is an example of a crime in which there should not be room for a new chance of child protection employment. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important to have an attitude where we are open to giving people a new chance, and we therefore state in the vote that we believe that the government's proposal is somewhat tight. It is important, however, to recognise that no arrangements for requirements for police certificates and prior checking of child protection employees can give us any guarantee that we avoid abuse and abuse in relation to the children in child protection. There will always be a question of trust in employees and in adults who have different child protection tasks. We'll never get away with that. Nevertheless, it is important to have a good framework for the proper and reasonable control of the people we engage in the work of the most vulnerable children. With regard to the proposal for adjustments in the field of supervision, I would like to stress to the Committee that there have been several instances of municipalities violating the Child Protection Act and that it is important that proper supervision of municipalities is implemented. In the position, we also suggest that some statesmen do not use their authority to impose sanctions on municipalities that violate the Child Protection Act. I would like to stress that the Stortinget must ensure that the Child Protection Act is complied with, and there is no doubt that all violations of the law are unacceptable. The resource situation in municipalities in the area of child protection is well known. Here's the big challenge. It is approaching elections, and we already know that we will see many promises and ambitious performances from the government parties in the care of the elderly and in the escalation of the cultural sector, and we have seen ambitious policy projects for escalation in the kindergarten sector. It still seems that we don't get any promises of escalation in the field of child protection. It is affordable that the government has put earmarked funds into the budget for this year, but we have no guarantees, and there is no escalating plan that says we should continue to escalate until we have full child protection coverage, and until the municipalities have sufficient capacity. It's an expression of a government priority. It's sad, and it's serious for child protection. The Christian People's Party is not going to surrender until such a escalation plan is in place. So far, we've seen that the red-greens have chosen not to give priority to child protection in other areas, which get long-term bets and escalation plans, which have given other sectors a boost. Now it's babysitting's turn, and I hope the government will soon open its ears to the important message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e253	Child protection protects the most vulnerable children we have. This is a great responsibility. One of the measures to protect children in the field of child protection is to require a police record of persons working with the children. I am therefore pleased that the Committee joins in the proposal on the use of more extensive police certificates than today. The proposal is based on the rules on child care certificates in the Police Register Act, adopted last year. Such child care certificates shall show sexual assaults on children and adults, killings, gross violence and criminality and drug crimes. In accordance with the legislative proposal, all persons to be employed in the child protection service and in the institution shall provide such a certificate. I am also pleased that the Committee agrees with the proposal that such a certificate should also be required of persons who are not employed but who are to carry out tasks which bring about contact with children and young people. This will include, inter alia: relate to persons entrusted with tasks as part of relief measures or to institutions. This will contribute to increased trust in child protection. Obstetrical parents and private persons who accept children as relief measures shall provide an exhaustive police record of allegations related to offences against all offenders. This will result in better control of persons who have regular and over time responsibility for the care of minors. This is also in line with the rules of the Police Register Act which justify the use of an exhaustive certificate. However, I have noticed the minority's proposal that an exhaustive certificate should also be required of support contacts and others who have similar regular and close contact with children. The most difficult question in this case is the consequences of comments on a limited certificate of childcare. Several of the speakers have come up with that. Being excluded from child protection work is serious. There was considerable disagreement among the Hearing Officers as to whether there should be access to the use of discretion or not in the assessment of the consequences. The minority of the Committee states that there should be a rule of discretion. However, the legislative proposal does not allow for the use of judgement. This is, in particular, justified by the fact that the limited child-care certificate only shows infringements related to very serious circumstances. Furthermore, child protection is the responsibility of children in particularly vulnerable situations. Therefore, a judgement as to whether or not to employ a person with a comment should not be left to the individual employer. I'm glad the majority have joined this assessment. The exclusion will also be limited in time in the case of serious violence and criminality, as well as in the case of drug offences. However, in the case of an exhaustive certificate required by foster parents, judgement shall be used if there are allegations relating to offences against penalties other than those covered by a limited certificate. It will not always be such that a less serious crime from a long time ago — e.g. a win crime - makes a person unfit to be a foster parent. The assessment theme is also precisely whether the remark might raise doubts about his suitability. The requirement for a police record applies when employed. In some cases, there will be a need for re-control. This may be required by the employer if there is reason to believe that new material information is available. However, as the Storting assessed it in the treatment of the Police Register Act, subsequent routine checks on employees will be disproportionately resource-intensive. We have applied the equivalent in the area of child protection. However, it is important that child protection services develop good practices in order to ensure re-control where required. The changes in the child protection law adopted by the Stortinget today mean even better protection for the most vulnerable children and young people. It is the best thing for the child to weigh more heavily in these assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e273	It is important to point out that it is not a human right to be allowed to work with children. In fact, if you are convicted of financial crime, you have no opportunity to work, for example. in the banking system. It is important to have proper guidelines in place also for those who are going to work with children. We know that Section 36 of the Police Register Act equates police certificates from other EEA countries with Norwegian certificates. This means that you can check those who come from other EEA countries when applying for a job in the field of child protection. But we have seen several times that this may not be what has been prioritised, and we have seen that the police have not had time or opportunity to check this out. What is important is to ensure that there are good practices, so that those who come from other EEA countries are also checked. What will the government do to get good practice on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e281	It is quite correct, as indicated here, that this issue is not addressed in detail, except that it is stated in the proposition that the question ‘will be further assessed in cooperation with the other departments responsible for sectors facing similar challenges’. This will, of course, be included in the work, and here you can think about the EEA situation. The consultation note we have contained a discussion of the dilemma related to the background control of foreigners outside the EEA. It then asked for general views as to whether it would be appropriate to introduce housing requirements of up to five years to replace background checks. The Police Register Act opens up such an opportunity. But here, opinions were shared in the hearing bodies. Many stressed the need for child protection and felt that a requirement for living would be desirable. However, there was general, strong support for the proposal to consider the issue collectively for other sectors. So what I can assure you is that we have joined such an overall assessment. This case was not included in the proposition, but we have a responsibility from the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and the Ministry of Inclusion to call the relevant departments to assess that type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e290	In the proposal, the government proposes a clarification of the supervisory board in the area of child protection. There is a broad consensus that supervision of municipalities is an important part of child protection. The question, however, is: What is the responsibility of the Council of State and the Government when we see that the municipalities are far from being able to discharge their responsibilities? As you know, there is no escalation plan for municipal child protection, even though we know how serious the situation is. No ambitions have been put forward by the government of Stortinget on how to escalate the appropriations. This makes some advisers claw in their heads about how to use the funds they have received in this year's budget. What responsibility does the Council of State have when the supervision reveals that the municipalities on a broad front do not carry out the tasks assigned to them by the Children’s Protection Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e299	I hear the representative hope several times is about the government's lack of child protection. That's not right at all. In the year we're in now, the government has set up nearly 400 new ear-marked positions for municipal child protection. This is, of course, a bet we want to keep going. The manner in which the budgetary documents will be presented. But the real question is what to do when the supervision of the municipalities requires that the municipalities follow up in an even better way. I will then answer that what is written about the supervision of this matter now is not a change in reality, but an emphasis on the fact that the supervision of the county officials is a law enforcement, and then you will follow up on the law to make a reference to the municipal law, Chapter 10 A. This means that there is a legal basis for supervision, and then you are more strongly on the part of the supervisory authorities also in the follow-up to the municipalities. I have good experience with the interaction between statesmen and municipalities, and I know that it needs both a law home and a good dialogue to be able to follow up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e306	In the comments, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party point out that the government in the proposition does not maintain the proposal for a narrow rule of exception, despite the fact that several hearing bodies have supported it, among others. Buffetat, the Children's Ombudsman and the Police Directorate. The Children’s Ombudsman also states in his statement that it is very important that adults who have experience that can be useful for children, such as children. persons who have successfully rehabilitated after imprisonment are given the opportunity to work in the field of child protection. Can the Council of State answer why it is important to exclude these persons, that we do not allow for discretion when we know that perhaps these people – who have some experiences and experiences but who have started a new life – want to add something to these young people? Why is it not possible to assess in the individual case?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e313	There are a number of factors that have been carefully assessed, and which it is important to take into account as a background for this work and the changes in the laws we are now making. One is to harmonise this to the greatest extent possible with the Police Register Act. The second thing that the representative here is dealing with is whether it's possible to use discretion. I said a little about it in my post, and I want to repeat that in the cases where there is no access to discretion – it is done in the case of foster parents, but not in the case of other staff – it is because here you are talking about the most serious crimes. That is the way the assessment is, even though there are probably shared opinions about it, that it is not then possible to use judgement and to impose on an employer the heavy responsibility it is to design that judgement. So that's why you don't open it, but you're open to a judgement when it comes to others, for example. foster parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e320	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2943]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e338	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e347	As the rapporteur on the matter, I would like to explain the Committee's views on the proposal, as well as that I would also like to say a little about the Christian People's Party's views on the issues concerned. I am pleased that the Committee in its position clearly stresses that the child’s best starting point for adoption and that it is the child’s best intention for adoption. The need for a family and for security is most important. There is no need for an adult to have a child who is the reason, starting point and purpose of the adoption process. The Committee stresses that there is a number of children who need a home and take into account the child’s waiting time, which must be controlling, not the number of adults who want to adopt or the waiting time of adults. The Committee also quotes in the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Childhood in the Norwegian debate: ‘The debate on adoption in Norway is too often marked by a perspective that focuses only on the wishes or demands of adults. This may concern either the original parents of the child or groups of applicants claiming ‘rights’ to adopt. It is important that all adoption should be assessed on the basis of the child’s needs and that adoption should only be used to the best of the child’s needs.’;» This is an important perspective, which we always have to remind ourselves of when we discuss adoption telematics. I am pleased that the Committee also stresses the seriousness of an adoption decision. Adoption is one of the most fundamental interventions the state can do to an individual. It is not only that the individual gets a new family, but also that he cuts over the legal ties to his original family. It is precisely the seriousness of the process that requires major procedural requirements, as well as standards of good repute, care, health, age, finances, housing, etc. The Committee therefore agrees with the proposers that a thorough evaluation of the adoption applicants is important. The Committee also agrees with the proposers that it should be an objective for Norwegian authorities to conclude new agreements with countries where necessary. The Committee points out that it is important for the Norwegian authorities to set high standards and to do a thorough job when approving new adoption countries. In its assessment of the proposed representative for NOU 2009, the Council of State refers to:21 Adoption – to the best of the child. The Committee agrees with the Council of State that the proposals contained in this draft representative must be seen in the context of the overall review of the field of adoption. The Committee assumes that the government will come to Stortinget with a broad review of the adoption field in a separate case and therefore awaits the further work of the Ministry. In view of the fact that document 8:6 for 2010-2011 is annexed to the Protocol. Without prejudging the general debate that is coming, I would say a little about the Christian People's Party's view. The Christian People's Party agrees that the adoption process can be simplified and take a shorter time. We particularly point in the attitude to the need to assess current age regulations and the practice of these provisions. The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that adoption aid should be increased. It is also the government parties in their party programmes, but not the Right Party and the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party has programmed and proposed a stepping up of adoption support to 2 G. The Christian People's Party has also proposed an increase of one-off support at birth and adoption to 2 G. With regard to the proposals put forward by the Left, I would say in the case of the Christian People's Party that we will not support those proposals when voting. It is not because we necessarily disagree with the proposals. We agree with the intentions of several of the proposals that are being promoted, but we respect the fact that the government is running a heavy process of reviewing a considerable amount of work that lies within that NOU, and we await the government to come back with a thorough review of the whole adoption field in which we can deal with the proposals from the Left in a wider context and give them the seriousness and thorough treatment that they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e369	The President shall assume that the representative shall also make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e372	The representative shall address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e377	The representative Øyvind Håbreck then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e380	The purpose of an adoption process is to give a good and lasting home to a child who cannot be taken care of by his biological parents. I think, in line with the hearing statement from the Adoption Forum, that the adoption debate in Norway is often marked by a lack of children's perspective, and that in fact we should note that in these debates. We don't talk about parents who have the right to children, but we talk about children who need a family. I agree that we need a further strengthening of the adoption field. It was not without reason that the government put down a public selection that would lead to a wide review of the adoption field. In line with what the proposers have to say and what the Council of State corresponds to the Committee, the Labour Party also believes that there are several good proposals here that are also involved in the adoption of the NOU – for the benefit of the child. I also think that we should be able to simplify the adoption processes, but not make them less safe. The purpose must always be to provide a good and lasting home for children. When this is clearly communicated, I will comment on this as the proposers deal with the waiting time and the process itself. My impression is that the waiting time, even after you are approved as an adoptive parent, can be long, for example. because several countries we have had a cooperation agreement with, are now being phased out. I think this is important to look at further, in line with what the proposers say in their proposal to conclude cooperation agreements with several countries. I would also like to point out that many of those who are currently going to deal with the start of adoption processes are the same people who are working on child protection issues in the municipalities, and therefore the government's strengthening of the municipal child protection area was also important in this context. For the Workers' Party, it is important to secure children, cf. The Children’s Convention, and we strongly disagree with the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right to facilitate the possibility of applying for adoption independently of countries that have been approved. For the Labour Party, it is important to ensure good agreements with countries from which we are to adopt, and we believe, in line with what a joint committee writes in its comments, that it is important that Norwegian authorities make high demands and do a thorough job when new adoption countries are to be approved. This is in stark contrast to the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right, and I want to be clear about what they actually mean here. The consequences we can see if you do not do a thorough job of approving adoption countries and adoption agencies are serious. The Hague Convention on International Adoption states that children should be protected against abduction, sale or trafficking. We can, among other things: look at several countries in Eastern Europe where children are heavily exposed to organised crime. The Council of Europe report, from the Social, Health and Family Committee, of 7 December 2007, points to a cruel example where children have been stolen from the birthplace and passed on to adoptive parents by corrupt health professionals who sell children to organised criminals — and the biological mother is told that the child was stillborn. This is actually happening in Eastern European countries today. For the Workers' Party, working against all forms of trafficking in human beings is absolutely crucial. We clearly believe that it is of decisive importance to maintain a strict requirement for both adoption intermediaries and the countries with which we conclude a cooperation agreement. This is one of the things. the reason Norway does not have a cooperation agreement with several countries in Eastern Europe. So my question is about the Right Party and the Progress Party is aware of the consequences of its proposal to make it possible to apply for adoption from non-approved countries. At least the working party takes a distance from such a proposal. I am pleased that the debate on adoption and adoption processes is about more than just the adoption benefit. This debate is about more than just a single budget line. But I also notice that the Right wants to increase the adoption benefit without having coverage for this in its alternative budget. The purpose of this process is to provide a child with a safe and sustainable home. It is also important that Norway has several countries to conclude cooperation agreements with, so that more children who need it can get a good and safe home. At the same time, there is, in fact, more demand for young, healthy children. The sad paradox in international adoption is that there are many children between the ages of five and 15 who need a new home, and many families are looking for children to take care of, but they want the little ones. A shorter waiting time for the searchers must never go beyond their children, never go beyond a thorough and good evaluation of the searchers. Therefore, it is so unlikely that it is important for the Labour Party that we have secure and good cooperation agreements with the countries from which we are to adopt, and that we are able to do something with any unnecessary bureaucracy without jeopardising the legal security of children or the best of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e401	First of all, I would like to thank the Left-wing rapporteur for a very good proposal. This is a proposal that was dealt with at Stortinget in the previous period, and that the opposition was behind, and it is time to review it because nothing has been changed at all. It is serious to make a decision on adoption. It has a particular impact on the child being adopted, but it also affects a new family member who comes into a family. A new and lifelong relationship is created between a child and the adoptive parents, and it is therefore very important to have a thorough assessment of those who are going to become adoptive parents. There is no doubt about it, and I think we all agree on that. So we know that no one has a right to be approved as adoptive parents. But now it's possible to apply to become an adoptive parent. I will then come up with the criteria to be approved. There are probably several of you who read in the Magazine magazine for some time ago about several parental killings that were to be adopted. Health, age and address can actually exclude you. Disagreement on housework and religion led to rejection of someone named Anne and Eric. How random is the choice of adoptive parents? Do we have good enough guidelines? Do we have the same guidelines across the country, so it doesn't depend on where you live, how easy it is to be approved as adoptive parents? The Progress Party will focus on reducing the waiting time. Today, it is actually in some municipalities over a year's waiting time before an investigation can be started into whether a family can be approved. There should be a normal treatment period of nine months after the submission of the case and should not exceed a maximum of one year. It's important. Then we also have to make sure that there are equal guidelines in the municipalities, so that we get a much greater equality than what we have today. So until what has been mentioned in the previous speech came up in the case of other countries that have been approved. We see that our neighbouring country, Sweden, has approved countries other than Norway. I am sure that they are equally concerned about having good demands and criteria to approve those countries from which they have the opportunity to adopt. What is contained in the proposal is that there should be criteria, but that there must also be the possibility of applying for adoption – if you are approved as an adoptive parent, and even if the authorities have some control and see where this child comes from – from countries that are not approved. So I don't see that there can be any big problem. Then I must say that I am disappointed with the Christian People's Party which is not in favour of this proposal from the Left. And by that I would say that the Progress Party will support the Left's proposal. It's okay to wait for the government, but we can wait a long time, it looks like, before there's a matter of adoption. That's why it's important that we now signal from Stortinget that we get these guidelines in place. We're talking about children who need parents, and we're talking about parents who are approved, but who are in line for adoption. That is why it is important to have pressed pressure on this matter, and therefore I had hoped that the Christian People's Party had also reconsidered its position and supported the proposals of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e414	Does the President assume that the representative should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e417	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e422	The representative of Solvency Horne has then taken up the proposals of the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e426	First, I want to start my post by giving praise to the Left because the Left shows impatience in simplifying the adoption process and in changing the guidelines in today's adoption process. I am very pleased that the Left has promoted this proposal that we are dealing with today. For the right, it is in this area, as in all areas of child and family policy, the best of the child to be the starting point for adoption. We also stress in this case that it is the best of the child that should be the purpose of adoption. The need for family and safety of children is important and it is essential that all adoption be assessed on the basis of the child’s needs and that adoption of care should only be used if it is best for the child. Furthermore, the right will emphasize the seriousness of an adoption decision. As several of the representatives have mentioned earlier in the debate, adoption is one of the most fundamental interventions the state can take against an individual. Adoption creates a new and lifelong relationship between the child and the adoptive parents and other family and relatives. Adoption also cut the child’s ties with biological parents, family, the breeding environment and perhaps the country of origin. That is why we have to make strict demands on the process, we have to make major demands on the process, as well as standards of conduct, care, health, age, economics, housing, etc. for the approval of adoptive parents. On the right, the rapporteurs agree that adoption parents need better financial support than they do today. Therefore, the Right wishes to join the proposal to increase the adoption aid to 1 G. The right, together with the Advance Party, is concerned that there are too many differences in treatment time and differences in how the criteria for being accepted as adoptive parents are practised in many municipalities. The representative Horne argued in a very good way why changes have to be made in this area. So I don't spend time going into it. In conclusion, what I want to spend time on are the proposals that have come from the Left today. I have to say that for myself I agree with what the representative, Håbreek, said, that it may be natural to wait for the government to bring a case to the Storting, based on the investigation that has now been carried out, an investigation into all the different aspects of adoption, and that you have to look at this in a larger picture and wait for a full review of the entire adoption field before you can go into individual measures. But on the other hand, like the Left, the Right is also impatient and wants something to be done. When we look at how many things this government has promoted in this field during the time they've been in government, I'm not exactly optimistic. That's why I think if we're going to do something in this field, if we're going to change the guidelines, if we're going to meet all the requests we're getting in this field, we in Stortinget have to support the proposals that come from the Left. Like all other things that the government claims they're working on, where they have samples, evaluations and I don't know what, there's getting stuff here, so I have no faith that a case in the adoption field will come in the near future. That is why, on behalf of the Right, I want to support these proposals. I think it's important that the opposition also stands behind them today if we're going to make changes in this field, which is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e441	The President assumes that the representative will address the Right-wing proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e444	That's exactly what I forgot to do in the end -- thank you for that, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e449	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e452	There are a lot of people on this platform before me today who have been in the child's perspective on this matter. I'm glad. Therefore, I should not say so much about it, just state that SV supports the view that adoption is a scheme for children who need a family. I am pleased that this perspective is strong in Stortinget and may lead to a turn of debate. I ask, like the representative Awake!, for the connection between word and action. We know that trafficking in children is a major international problem. It is therefore essential to have good agreements with countries and a good and strict assessment of people seeking adoption. I would like to ask the Progress Party and the representative Horne to clarify, because I believe that it was said from the pulpit instead that if the authorities have some control, it is okay to apply for adoption from countries that are not approved, and countries with which Norway has previously cut off cooperation because of trade in children. Does the Progress Party think it's okay? I'm looking for a clarification on that. Otherwise, like others, I am happy that there is impatience in this matter. We're busy with it. That's why we've done a thorough job. That is why we have started working with a NOU, and I believe, like the rapporteur and others before me, that these proposals need to be looked at in this context. It's great that we have a debate in Stortinget about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e461	The consultation opinion of the adoption forum in connection with NOU 2009:21 states that the debate in Norway is often marked by demands and wishes from adults, both from biological parents and from those who want to adopt. For the Central Party, it is important to say that adoption must be a process aimed at giving a good and lasting home to a child who cannot be taken care of by his biological parents, where the child’s best starting point for adoption and the child’s best intention is adoption. Adoption is a very serious tool. Adoption creates a new and lifelong relationship between the child and the adoptive parents and their other relatives and families. At the same time, the ties that the child has with his biological parents, family and reproductive environment were also cut. It is then important that strict demands are made both for the procedure and for those who want to become adoptive parents. During the hearing on the matter, several issues have emerged that may appear to be very unreasonable to those in a process of being approved as adoptive parents. There may be large differences in treatment time and differences in how the criteria for being approved as adoptive parents are practised. We hear about applicants who have spent many years being approved, who want to have children, but who are too old when the process needs to be repeated. There are also several reasons to believe that the adoption process may need to be simplified and streamlined, and that quality should be strengthened. But when it is claimed that the matter is being trained, and that it is being used for too long, I would say that here it is continuously working with the NOU that has been presented, to go through the hearing replies. Adoption is not something you can just run through quickly and deal with easily, because these are very serious issues, and there are strong principles in these questions about what kind of practice we want to put on in Norway. The Committee has previously discussed issues relating to the adoption of children under the care of child protection. These are issues that are addressed and discussed in the NOU to which I have referred earlier. Therefore, it is natural that the proposals for representatives in this case are seen in the context of the overall review of the adoption field, and that the major debate on adoption in Norway is taken when this comes as a separate matter from the government to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e474	I have been involved in debates on this issue in several committees, and I hear now that we have a committee with a completely different approach than that of the previous committee. There's nothing I admire so much as the people who say we don't have a biological child, but we're willing to use our lives to follow up a child that's not ours. It's a big task they do for the community. It's a big task they're doing for the child. And I think we should appreciate that people are willing to do that. I think there should be a tone in this room. We have to be very happy that people are actually willing to take care of a child who is biologically not theirs, and to give it all the follow-up that is needed. I believe we should be very happy for those who spend a lot of money taking care of a child that they haven't put into the world. I believe that this hall should express respect for and rejoice that someone actually does. The bureaucracy that very many of them face, the huge problems that many of them face, and the degrading process that many of them face, I think it's our job to do something with. Then, of course, we're going to make sure that, in the case of the children who are being adopted, there's a basis for them to actually be adopted away. But as a background in this room, I think we're going to be happy that someone is willing to take on a responsibility for a child who doesn't have parents. There should be the basic tone in this hall. That is why it has been important for the Left to raise this issue, and we have raised it in a number of rounds. We are starting to become quite impatient after getting a case to Stortinget. We must honestly admit that under the Huitfeldt Council, we perceived that it was actually a real desire to drive this process forward, but are now very concerned that that commitment has disappeared again from the ministry. Let me briefly review some of our suggestions. I am delighted that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are holding on to their position to wish that the proceedings should go down to nine months. The reason for this is that we see that the procedure is very different around the country. In many small child-restraints, the choice lies with child-restraint workers between assessing a report of concern and assessing whether a family is perfect. And it's clear that you'll then evaluate the feedback from your concerns in front of you to assess whether a family is perfect. That's why many adoption parents are standing in a very long queue. It's also the way in child protection that many child-restraint workers may consider one adoption parent killing every ten years, while we should really have a separate unit that worked with adoption approval, which was good at doing it, that knew what to look for, and that could do it effectively. Probe adoptions are just about pressing laws in each country. If you create test adoption systems, you get the pressure in place to ensure that you don't get the sale of children, the law, the legal security and the legal security system that the government parties are involved in and that I fully agree with. We see that many countries use probation to get the law in place in the donor country. That's why it's important. I also have to say that of all the requests I get – and there are a lot of them – from people who are confused about the adoption processes, it is the age limits that frustrate the most, because we get older. We ladies get older before we try to have children. Some people also try to have children in other ways, so it takes quite a while before you start an adoption process and find that it's the solution to marriage, plus that there's a lot of marriage where there's also a big age difference, and they also experience being punished for it – which is what plays out on a lot of marriages. My point is that it's not in the law that there's any age limit. Demand for an age limit is a very great intervention in the lives of many families. It is really a very great intervention in the lives of many families. One would like to assess whether the age limit has been reached on the basis of an assessment of the family situation, but I believe that the government is not allowed to do what you are doing now, to act with an age limit at the regulatory level. I believe that today's main proposal, the Left, is proposal No. Eight. I believe that you should have an individual assessment of each family, and get a proper assessment of all of them. I want with it to take up all the suggestions. So I'm going to spend the last two seconds of my speaking time saying that I'm very disappointed that the Christian People's Party has turned around at all these points in relation to what they stood for in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e495	Then the representative Trine Skei Grande brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e498	The staging representatives Trine Skei Grande and Abid Q. Raja proposes to make the adoption process more predictable and less bureaucratic. I agree with the representatives that the adoption process should be as predictable as possible and that there should be no more procedure than necessary. The question, however, is how the balance between predictable and flexible legislation should be. Clear requirements for applicants must be met, but the applicant’s personal suitability to adopt a child will always have to weigh more heavily. I respect Trine Skei Grande's defence for the ideal motives, but we do not get away with any judgements that need to be made. These assessments must exercise professional judgement. Important considerations must be made on the basis of what is best for the child. We want a better adoption process. For this reason, in 2008 the government reduced a public sample that has gone through the adoption field. The investigation has been widely consulted and the ministry is now following up the investigation and the consultation opinions. In this work we will look at the issues addressed by the representatives in their Document 8 proposals. Adoption is primarily about giving a child who needs it, a good and lasting home. This is underlined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Hague Convention on International Adoption. All 83 countries have joined the Hague Convention, including Norway. Therefore, the essential interests of the child must be safeguarded in the adoption process. I am pleased that the Committee also draws up the child perspective in its position. The proposal of the representatives of the European Parliament, like the Committee on Adoption, aims to simplify, streamline and enhance the quality of the adoption work. Since we are now in a process – and it is active, I can assure you – where we look again in the field, it is difficult for me to give concrete answers to the representatives. However, I would like to mention some key proposals. The committee proposes to transfer the investigation of adoption applicants from the municipality to the five regions of the Children’s, Youth and Family Catastrophe. Its purpose is, among other things: shortening the procedure time. Key requirements for applicants, such as age, health, housing, economy and habits and the duration of marriage, want to make the sample more precise and much less discretionary. They suggest, for example: to reduce the requirement to the age of applicants from 45 to 42 years, with a few exceptions. According to the sample, the requirement for health needs to be standardised to a large extent and they propose the development of a guide specifying some key and typical diagnoses, diseases and disabilities that lead to rejection of the application. Here I find that the committee's proposals differ somewhat from the views of the storage representatives in the present proposals. They signal a desire for a less rigid code. This shows that there are different views as to which criteria should apply and to what extent discretion should be left to the authorities. These are just examples of sample proposals that we are now looking at. As regards the actual treatment of adoptive applicants, I stress that this should be done in a good way. Applicants shall be taken into account in the adoption process. The children’s, youth and family budgets are committed to this and have taken initiatives to ensure sound and sound procedures. These will be implemented quickly and not wait for the overall review. Developments in the country of origin of children affect international cooperation on adoption. Countries of origin aim to prioritise national adoptions rather than foreign adoptions. This is done at the same time as several beneficiary countries wish to establish cooperation with the countries concerned. Some countries of origin therefore receive far more applications than children are available for adoption. Treatment time is increasing in these countries. The waiting time, for example: in China is currently over four and a half years. There are many orphans in the world who may need to be adopted abroad. But at the same time, there are some countries that cannot or do not want to cooperate on international adoption, for various reasons. In several countries, adoption of children abroad is a highly sensitive and controversial issue. In other countries, the situation is characterised by instability, for example: in the event of war and natural disasters. I am concerned that the organisations are given the opportunity to cooperate on international adoption in countries where there are both children who need to be adopted abroad and where there is a wish from the authorities. However, the country has a regulatory framework and a sound system for the dissemination of adoption. We must prevent the activity from being exploited by someone for the abduction and trafficking of children. When cooperating with a new country, the Norwegian authorities must make a thorough assessment before granting an authorisation. Representatives propose that adoption organisations should be given the opportunity to carry out probationary adoptions in a country prior to granting a final brokerage authorisation. This is already being done. For example, I can. mention that in January of this year the Directorate authorised the carrying out of test cases from Mali. In addition to this, issues related to international cooperation will naturally be at home in the review we are now conducting. I am pleased that the committee is concerned that the government will come back to Stortinget with a broad review of this important field in a matter of its own. This, of course, will be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e529	There were a lot of nice words from the Council of State, but while we're here debating, we know that there are a lot of people going through a bureaucratic process. It's also a degrading process. There are differences in the guidelines and differences in treatment duration around them, which are demanding and a burden on the successful adoption parents. We know that health, address and age, disagreement about housework and religion can be divisive – things that shouldn't be necessary to be involved in these matters. I have two short questions for the Council of State: Is there going to be a case for Stortingen to bring down the time of adoption? If so, when will that matter come?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e537	Yeah, there's something going on. And to question No. 2: We're working on it. I cannot say an exact time for presenting the case, but it is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e542	In the opinion of the Committee, which is largely an overall setting with many agreed assessments, a joint committee says among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Committee assumes that the Government will come to Stortinget with a broad review of the adoption field in its own case and therefore awaits the further work of the Ministry.’ I heard the reply to the previous reply, but this case has now been in the department for over a year and a half. When the committee has now stated clearly that we expect a separate case and have chosen to refer the proposals into that process, I would ask the Council of State to return to the Stortingen to provide a detailed indication of when that matter may be available. Are we talking about months, or are we talking about years? Can we expect it to exist, for example? in the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e552	I have explained in my article the assessments that need to be made, which are difficult assessments. We want adoption to be both a good tool and an instrument, cf. the question from Solvency Horne about differences around. We want clear legislation, but at the same time we want it to be less bureaucratic and, of course, we want to provide assessments that are always in the best interests of children. What I can answer is that we are working on the matter in full, and that there are such assessments that, of course, take some time, but I don't think we need to talk about years, but I will be more accurate than that when the matter is brought before the Stortinget. But the matter comes to Stortinget, and I look forward to a broad and good debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e559	I'm going to ask what I took up in my post that very many people experience as very offensive and very difficult, and I'm wondering where to find the laws and the decisions that form the basis for doing that, and it goes at the age limits you put in place. For Stortinget has never said anything about it. The size has never expressed a wish about it. This is a strong intervention against Norwegian citizens, it is a strong intervention that I believe is not the basis for any major document that has been dealt with, at least not in my time. So my question is, where does the government find the legal basis enough to set the age limit that it now sets in relation to adoption, which I think very many perceive as unreasonable, and which seems to be very many, makes life difficult, and which I don't think is based on a professional assessment? I wonder, does the Council of State have the basis for the change in regulations that the Council of State has made?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e564	I want to refer to my post, where I refer to the sample's proposal to actually lower the requirement to the age of the applicants from 45 to 42 years. This is a very difficult assessment, as we are now doing in the overall review, and I can promise the representative that I will also take the views of the representative Skei Grande into account in that assessment. We're going to go through carefully what anchoring we need, and what weight we're going to put on the age of adoption parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e569	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e572	In its presentation of the case, the representative, Mr Øyvind, stressed that adoption should not be governed by the needs of adults. He mentions in particular ‘groups of applicants claiming ‘rights’’. What groups are the Hope groups here refer to? No one disagrees with the fact that the child's best is crucial, in fact the only important factor in adoption. I assume that Hope with new «groups» means homosexuals and people with disabilities. These are the only groups I have registered that have wanted to be judged as adoptive parents, not because they claim rights, but because they are equivalent and can offer children, children who need it, safe, equivalent growth conditions and good care. It's about being concerned with the best of the child. That new types of families can be, and want to be, adoptive parents, are good news. There is no conflict between what is their desire, and what is good for the child, rather on the contrary. All possible adoptive parents shall undergo the same rigorous assessment. It might be interesting to hear Hope deepen why it is a problem that more and more people queue and want to be assessed as adoptive parents. When the number of children adopted to Norway decreases, it is not due to the fact that fewer children in the world need care. There are now only half as many children adopted to Norway as 10 years ago. I feel absolutely certain that there are several reasons for the decline. This is not just about economic changes in our countries of cooperation. Professor Fanny Duckert wrote on 27 August last year a thought-provoking article in the VG. She is particularly concerned with the role of adoption organisations. Today, three — only three — organisations provide foreign adoption to Norway. All come from interest groups and geographical ties. They operate independently of each other. It is not permitted to report to all three at the same time, and it is necessary to restart the process completely if it is interrupted by one of the organisations. The three Norwegian organisations cooperate with 18 countries, while Danish and Swedish organisations have 26 and 36 cooperating countries, respectively. I am particularly concerned about three things when we are now going to have an overall review of the adoption field: the lack of coordination between adoption associations the lack of active efforts to develop networks and cooperation in new regions, regions where we know that many children need care because of war and natural disasters that a final settlement is taken with the view that some parents are less suitable, not because they have been assessed, but because, and only because, they belong to some group or other group
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e591	I really took the word to comment on something else, but I also want to take the opportunity to comment on the last post, which was also addressed to me. I'm a little surprised by the representative Haugli's comments and that he links it up against it that I referred to ‘groups of applicants claiming ‘rights’’. Indeed, it was part of the Committee's unanimous comments, which quoted the opinion of the adoption forum in the context of the NOU we are now discussing, where the whole committee agreed that it is the child perspective that is the starting point. In this context, therefore, a joint committee refers to the opinion delivered by the adoption forum. Now it is right that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party disagree on the question of whether the starting point for an adoption should be that children should have the right to a mother and a father, who is well known from previous debates as well. There we disagree. Now there is no major issue in this context, since most countries from which children are adopted take the same priority. Moreover, the situation is that there are more adult adoption applicants than there are children to be adopted away from the world. However, I took the word for clarification, especially in relation to posts from the Left, but also from others, which suggested that the Christian People's Party should have turned around on these questions. I will reject that. It comes out from the setting, and it came out from my post, that we're on the same thing we've done before. The Christian People's Party has not turned around. Adoption involves many fundamental issues that have been well highlighted in the debate so far. The Christian People's Party is concerned that it should be treated properly, in an overall review that the entire committee has happily asked the government to join. The Christian People's Party likes to be in government and to deal with and discuss these matters itself. Now we're not in government, but that doesn't mean we're canceling the division of labour between big business and government. It is up to the government to investigate the matters to be dealt with. Now you've presented a heavy NOU, which we're awaiting a review of. The Christian People's Party is impatient, and we are happy to show our impatience to the government in many things that we want them to present. If we do that in every case, and we vote for every thing regardless of processes in the government, we also cancel the effect of marking our impatience. It's clearly marked. The Christian People's Party stands on the same positions that we have done before, and we look with great anticipation to the review.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e608	I'm not going to extend the debate, but there's a couple of things I want to clarify. First of all, I want to thank Håkon Haugli for a good article. There was an article about the matter. Therefore, I have to say that I am a little surprised at at least two other posts from the government parties, which have focused on one of the proposals available in this matter, from the Progress Party and the Right, and turn the whole debate into something quite different from what it does. But Håkon Haugli was concerned with what is actually the essence and what are the problems in relation to the adoption process today. Let me first of all clarify, since the Progress Party was challenged, what we mean by proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Of course, and there must be no doubt about it, the Advancement Party is taking a great distance from all human trafficking in children and adults. The intention of this proposal was, of course, not to open up any trade in children. We are fully aware that this is happening in some countries that are not far away from us, and that we need to focus on this and work to get rid of the problem. The focus of the Progress Party is in fact the wishes of the adoption associations and they want trial cases to be carried out before brokering permits are granted. What the representative of Håkon Haugli also had to say is that our neighbouring country has far more cooperation agreements with countries other than Norway. And then I don't see any problem in giving trial permits to other countries until you make cooperation agreements with them. But in order not to make a big deal of this: the Advance Party, and also the Right, feels that proposal No. 7 from the Left has the same intention and is better formulated than proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Progress Party will therefore withdraw proposal No. 2 because we believe that proposal No. 7 is better formulated and takes care of what was the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e621	The representative, Mr Horne, then drew proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2944]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e641	I would like to address with this interpellation a debate here in the United Kingdom on what ambitions Norway can have and should have for its leading knowledge institutions. In recent years we have seen strong international competition for resources for research and knowledge development, both in terms of human and financial resources. This concerns aspects such as international research cooperation, e.g.: within the EU, where the road choices and priorities made by others become increasingly important for Norway. How attractive Norway is as a partner country depends on the quality of our researchers and institutions, what working conditions we can offer, but also on what resources we ourselves can prioritise to support our best research environments. For universities, we see an increasingly strong international competition, including for students. Norway has undoubtedly among the best conditions in the world purely financially for students, but as a small country on the outskirts of the world, it is not unnatural that larger and more prestigious universities in larger countries beat us in the competition for the best talents. More relationships can work in here, but it's not unnatural to believe that the international rankings we've got in the last few years become more important. In good Norwegian academic tradition, many in the sector devalue these rankings and claim to be faulty or irrelevant. Sometimes skepticism may seem to increase if one’s own institution comes out poorly — and it may be human. At the last Times Higher Education ranking last year, the University of Bergen and the University of Oslo joined among the 200 leading universities in the world. Unlike before, the University of Oslo had to see itself this time turned off by the University of Bergen, which ended up in 135th place. The position implies that the University of Bergen is now ranked as No. 6 of the universities in the Nordic countries. It is difficult to determine whether these are results we should be satisfied or dissatisfied with. We look at the world's leading universities, for example. They are almost without exception larger than ours, have longer history and are more well-known, have more resources and are located in larger countries, such as the United States and Japan. USA, France, United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, etc. For example, the foundation behind the world's best university, Harvard, is considered to be the world's second richest organization, after the Catholic Church. So there's formidable competitors that our universities have to measure against. But even though it may seem unreasonable to be compared with such strong competitors, competition and ranking are still a fact to which we have to deal. The answer to the question of whether it is good, or too bad with the best Norwegian locations, is essentially a question of what level of ambition we as a nation want for our best universities. Other questions, too, it is important to seek answers, may be how realistic it is to achieve significantly higher placements, which factors we can most easily influence in that direction, and what resources it will require. The University of Oslo has recently presented its strategy for the next ten years. The level of ambition is to raise quality and become more relevant and visible internationally. The University of Bergen is in the middle of the process of its new strategy. In the course of this work, I have registered some disagreements about objectives, ambitions and priorities. A fundamental question that seems to go back in such discussions is whether it is right to prioritize something in front of something else, in other words whether there should be emphasis on point over width. It's a discussion that I also want to address in this interview, but then in a more national perspective. I therefore believe that the nation of Norway should have an opinion on what ambitions we are going to have for our leading universities. Our leading researchers and research communities are at the top of the world in their fields, and there's no reason for our best universities not to be the same. However, as already mentioned, several competitors have a formidable position, and it is therefore important to be realistic. A goal that can be ambitious and realistic can, for example: be that the foremost Norwegian university shall be ranked as the best in the Nordic region by 2020. Today, the University of Bergen, as best in Norway – as I mentioned earlier – is no. 6 in the North. What that will require of the universities and of the others, I don't have the answer. But it should be possible for a rich and well-educated country like Norway to have such ambitions. Work must start with an analysis and then a decision on objectives, and then a binding agreement must be reached between the leading universities and the Ministry of Knowledge on actions and funding. It would then be natural to take the strategic documents of universities and to develop their strongest environments further. The best university in the Nordic region is the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden today, in position no. 43. Should the University of Bergen, for example, go up to this level, it means to climb approx. 90 places. It would certainly require resources and systematic quality development. But the gain will not only be a better ranking. A stronger investment in our leading universities is just what is happening, among other things. the central bank manager now calls for a higher level of investment in future value added.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e667	There is always a great deal of attention in the media about the position of Norwegian universities on international rankings. The two most famous are Times Higher Education Supplement and Shanghai Jiao Tong University. Universities are important social institutions that deserve a large place in public space, which the international rankings contribute to. But in order to have a reflected approach to rankings, it is important to know what is actually being measured, what criteria are being taken into account, and what emphasis are being given to the different criteria. Many ranks measure only parts of the activity at the institutions — often just research. These activities can be measured by selecting certain criteria, such as: the number of Nobel Prize winners the institution has fostered, or one can rely on subjective assessments of the reputation of universities. In addition, some of the rankings have an impact on science and medicine. The indicators used thus highlight a limited part of the activity. The consequence is that many and important aspects of university activities are not used in the assessment basis in the most well-known rankings. Education and training are given little weight and many disciplines are not included in the calculation basis. Because the most profiled rankings do not distinguish between disciplines, the results may mask major differences in quality within universities. It's rarely that a width university is best in all areas. For potential students and other stakeholders, the quality of each subject may be more important than the overall outcome of the apprenticeship. Alternative rankings have therefore been developed based on excellent disciplines rather than excellent universities. These have so far received less attention. It's usually the same universities that get to the top of the most famous rankings. The Shanghai and Times rankings favor traditional and research-intensive universities in English-speaking countries. If we ignore the English-speaking, it's actually so that Norwegian and Nordic universities come out well. The institutions most often placed at the top of the ranking list also have the prerequisites and framework conditions of the few other universities, including: access to large donations, funds and land assets. Furthermore, we have seen that some of the rankings are constantly changing indicators and methods of calculation, which can make the results unpredictable. This has led to large fluctuations in placement from one year to the next, although there is rarely any significant change in quality in professional activity within such a short period of time. Unilateral attention to rankings may lead to uniformity because institutions will adapt to the criteria to score high on them. In order to counteract uniformity, alternatives have been developed to rankings, alternatives aimed at presenting and promoting the diversity of the sector. A European initiative that looks at the opportunity to make diversity more visible is the so-called U-map initiative. The typology is multidimensional and does not aim at ranking; it is intended to make the landscape more visible among higher education institutions. The classification system is based on 14 dimensions, such as: education, research, innovation, international orientation and cultural and regional engagement. Inspired by this, in its annual state report for universities and colleges, the Ministry of Knowledge has developed a classification system to present the profile of each university or university. This is a non-hierarchical approach designed to raise awareness and trigger reflections on the nature of institutions. This work has received good feedback from the sector and is something the ministry will develop further. In addition to the objective of having a diverse landscape for higher education, we obviously need to have high ambitions for our universities and colleges. It is also apparent from the Law of the University and the Higher Education Act, which states that universities are to ‘contribute to Norwegian higher education and research following the international research front’. As a small country, Norway cannot be the best in everything, but we must nevertheless assert ourselves in some areas. Among other things, we do. set up centres for excellent research. 18 out of 21 SSFs are affiliated to universities. An evaluation of the scheme last year showed that it has been a success and helped to make Norwegian research internationally visible. In addition to having research environments at the top of the world, I am also very concerned about education quality. I have expectations that universities and colleges will provide high-quality research-based education. In order to stimulate quality in education, it is, among other things: to set up a system for centres of excellence in education. I have great expectations for this effort. The government sees the need for more robust professional environments and contributes to this by stimulating increased cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration within and between institutions. The government budget allocated SAK funds for both 2010 and 2011, and we are now seeing several promising projects as a result of these incentives. The majority of funds are allocated to major regional cooperation processes involving several institutions. The aim of these actions is to increase the quality of education, research and dissemination, thus strengthening the institutions as international knowledge actors. The efforts made in both research and education show that the list is being high and that we are going to have excellent environments in different parts of universities' activities. We can also see the results of the bets. Firstly, there has been a strong growth in the publication of Norwegian researchers. Measured in the number of research articles per 1 000 inhabitants, Norway is fifth place in the world. Secondly, Norwegian research is being quoted more and more. While scientific publication and citation are established indicators of research quality, similar developments for education have been less developed. A quality aspect of higher education is the benefits of training in relation to the demands of the labour market. Norwegian higher education seems to provide a good starting point for professional life. A study shows that candidates from Norwegian universities are far more satisfied with how education prepared them for work than were candidates from 12 other countries in this comparison. However, there is a need for increased knowledge of the quality of education in Norway. We are therefore part of an international project, the AHELO project, which aims to compare students' learning outcomes across countries. The way students perceive the quality is captured to some extent in various student studies. However, such studies have so far been little systematic and scientific. The Ministry of Knowledge therefore assesses the need for a national student survey to improve knowledge of student assessments of quality and learning outcomes. Figures from Eurostudents show that Norwegian students are among those who receive fewer lessons in Europe. In addition, evaluations and reaccreditations from NOKUT have pointed to weaknesses in several courses. We regularly hear about reduced group education, lack of follow-up and feedback to the students, poor management of the study programmes, etc. This underlines the importance of monitoring the content of education and the quality of study together with the institutions that have the formal responsibility. It also underlines the importance of continuing pressure on the work of better management at our universities and colleges. The fact that institutions too set themselves high targets is reflected in their strategy papers: The University of Oslo has as its main ambition ‘to develop UiO into an international top university’. The University of Bergen’s goal is ‘to further develop UiB as an internationally visible research university’. NTNU has given its strategy the title ‘NTNU 2020 — International excellence’. In total, this shows that we have universities with high ambitions. The Government's objective is that Norwegian research and higher education should be of a high international class. For the government, it is not an end in itself that Norwegian universities should climb the rankings. We believe that a wide range of instruments are necessary to measure international quality. On the other hand, international rankings have come to be, and they measure parts of the activity of our schools. It would therefore be natural to draw attention to the development of the rankings in order to improve the quality of research and higher education. The government's research and higher education objectives are reported to the Stortinget through outlays and budget documents. Several of the issues relevant to Warloe's question have been notified to Stortinget in my period as the Council of State. The Storting Communication on Internationalisation and the Storing Communication on Research explains the government's international ambitions for Norwegian research and higher education. There are no plans for an analysis for universities separately. I believe that the role of universities internationally in research and higher education is best analysed in a comprehensive way. Finally, I would like to mention that the government has pointed out this year, 2011, to the Year of Science. We will invite you to discuss the importance of higher education and research for growth, well-being and cultural development, as well as the fact that there is also a very important discussion within and outside the academic environment. These will be important discussions that will give direction to what the leading professional communities will be after in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e733	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say that I might be a little disappointed. As the Council of State said, the year we are now in, called the Year of Science in Norway, will be used to discuss, among other things. themes like the ones I've taken up in my interpellation. At least I had hope of that. In other words, what level of ambition should we have for Norway as a knowledge country, and what level of ambition should we have for our foremost environments and institutions? The Council of State said in its reply that we have universities with high ambitions, and I fully agree with that. That I believe is absolutely essential that they have, something else would be shocking. But the question in my interview is: What ambitions do Norway have? What ambitions should we have, we who sit here on the Stortinget, and those who are responsible for government? What ambitions should we have for Norway and for our leading institutions? I may not feel that was answered in the articles of the Council of State. She started her article on problemating these rankings. There may be reason to do so, but it reminds me a little of the debate when we received the first international tests on the performance of Norwegian school students, for example. The PISA test, 10 years ago. Then the debate started by explaining why this ranking and test was not reliable, why it was not relevant, why it did not tell the whole truth, etc. That debate has ceased. The Councils of State mentioned inter alia: that there was much that was not measured, and that what was measured was only a tiny small part of the total activity of universities. She can do that. But that the education offer is not given weight, I think it must be positive error. As far as I could see from the different factors that are included in the Times Higher Education ranking, the educational provision and the quality of it, with a number of sub-factors, by 30 pst. A relationship such as: the degree of internationalisation of the environment by each institution is weighted by 5 pst. So there's different weights and different factors. This survey may, of course, favour English-speaking countries for various reasons. But as I mentioned, the Karolinska Institute in Sweden is not located in an English-speaking country, and it is as no. 43 in the world and the best in the North. My challenge to the Council of State is: Should not Norway have as an ambition that it was a Norwegian university holding this position?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e744	I think the representative may have misunderstood something if he thinks that I or the government do not have ambitions for Norwegian universities and colleges. I'm glad he doesn't think this is just about universities, because I want to raise the quality of all the colleges. Nothing pleases a research and higher education minister more than that our teaching places do well in the international context as well. But there's a lot of ways to measure this, and I discussed some of the challenges we have in my previous article that the international measurements only measure parts. We want to measure a larger whole than this. But to explain my ambitions very clearly: the quality reform is the name of the reform for which a total increase was introduced in 2003 and which we follow up. What is important in that reform and in that work is to look for higher quality both in research and in education. The results and evaluations so far indicate that we are in the process of success. But we all know that the second ambition, which is also a European and international ambition, namely diversity, means that not everyone can be the best in all, and that there are some who are higher than others in different international comparisons. I'm concerned that we get diversity, that we get e.g. Good quality in our research and education at all our universities, whether small or large. I have, as far as I understand, supported by the Stortinget, given special funds for precisely that cooperation and division of labour, and not least the professional concentration that comes with it. These are important instruments that the government uses and the Storting supports to promote quality. The establishment of centres for excellent research and hopefully also centres for excellent teaching is our way of demonstrating high quality in both research and teaching. So I don't accept that we don't have ambitions. I think we have high ambitions, but we have ambitions for a whole that consists of something more than what these international measurements can show. I would also like to reject the fact that the discussions in the Year of Science, 2011, are not about how good our teaching places are. That's exactly what this is about. Of course, other questions of scientific and research interest are an underlying, important question that is also raised in several of the planned meetings: How good are we? How good institutions do we have? Of course, if we answer no to the question of whether we're good enough, what do we do to get even better? It lies there as a starting point for further political work and what happens in the years of science.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e755	I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up this topic. It is well known that rankings in this sector are a matter of regular debate. Some people think that rankings don't say anything about the quality of the studios, that they're too random, because of one-dimensional assessments. Others believe that rankings, even if they don't say everything, still say something quite substantial about the essence of institutions. I'm of the opinion that both parts are right. The rankings say something, but not everything. They're not good enough as guide lines, but at the same time they give something to reach for. From a student perspective, it is not to be avoided that rankings can play a role, not least for students who consider studying abroad. In an international, unbridled landscape of large and small higher education institutions, a good reputation could have much to say for one institution to be chosen over another. Of course, rankings are not the only ingredient of reputation. Well, so important is what former students can tell you about the institution, or who are lecturers there. For the student, the study abroad is not only a journey of experience or education, but also an investment for the future. Then it's not so strange if you want to make sure that you've chosen an institution that's not only exciting, but also someone else knows and recognizes. This means that Norwegian students look at such rankings before they decide, which means that students who want to go to Norway also do the same. For many reasons, Norwegian institutions will continue to be attractive to foreign students, also because we are one of the very few countries that do not take school money and have a generally high standard of living. But also our institutions have to deal with and reinvent themselves by being measured and weighed – and sometimes found too light and sometimes just heavy enough. The rankings are an expression of increased globalisation. The need to compare institutions is growing. This also applies to researchers, for scientific staff, who are applying for good or recognised professional environments. In January the Committee visited the OECD office in Paris. There we were updated on the launch of a major study to measure the learning outcomes in higher education. There is a type of PISA survey for this sector. The aim is to compare across institutions, to provide students and scientific staff with a broad basis for their choices, to ensure informed national policy development and to be a tool for the strategic work of higher education institutions. Although this study will also have its methodological weaknesses, it can, together with other studies, provide a broader basis for making these types of assessments. I welcome that. At the same time, I hope that both the forthcoming OECD study and the rankings we already have are being used wisely. This means not looking blindly at them, while retaining the ambition to improve constantly and to target international quality of education, research and dissemination at individual institutions. For Norwegian institutions, this also means more discussion about what we want to be the best at. We're a relatively small country. We obviously can't be the best in all areas, but with our good resources and many good heads, we can mark ourselves in some areas if we work long-term and systematically. This is an important joint strategic discussion, which I would like to invite the professional communities and institutions themselves to participate more than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e778	A nos petimus astra, it stands on the foundation of the Observatory, the University of Oslo's oldest building. And we're also looking for the stars, which means in Norwegian. It says something about what ambitions the University of Oslo has. There was also a slightly more ground-based use of that observatory 200 years ago. It was not just about the stars; it was also about mapping where Norway was actually purely geographical, in terms of longitude and latitude. But in any case, the Observatory at the University of Oslo, and the scientific community around the Observatory, Oslo, put on the map as an academic city quite quickly after the establishment. And I think it's good to see that the University of Oslo uses this terrestrial but ambitious story to have ambitions – together with the University of Bergen and NTNU – to be visible in the international environment as full or partial latitude university. There's reason to remember that we only have two major broad universities in Norway; the other universities want to give greater or lesser priority to the disciplines they're going to bet on, and I feel there's a broad consensus in the Storting that it's a sensible approach. Then I am pleased – once we have got this debate – that both the Council of State and the representative Tajik say that these international rankings have come to be. Governments also say it's partly about economics. That is why this is a debate which is also partly part of the budget negotiations, and which I am absolutely sure we will come back to there. It's like Norway, with the funding we have, is always going to be an attractive place of study for international students. But it has to be a goal that we attract the best students. The fact that we can attract the best students, I believe is an important reason for having free education in Norway. But they don't come to Norway just because it's cheap or free to study here. The very best do not come unless we also show that we have qualitatively good educational institutions in Norway. That is why this debate is important. I hope I couldn't interpret the Council of State to that the number of Nobel Prize winners is an irrelevant measure when you evaluate how good the research is around, because at least I don't think it is. It's quite obvious that there's a lot of reasons to discuss these measurements, how relevant they really are, but we have to relate to them. I think the Council of State is concerned about something important: maybe it makes sense that we are contributing from the Norwegian side to developing quality rankings that are more appropriate to the central European and Nordic way of working with universities and colleges. Because it can certainly help in the long term, so that Norwegian universities will better score on such a sort of ranking. But in any case, we have to deal with the big, internationally recognized rankings, because it's going to put students and researchers in the future. If I can track the debate a little – and I usually use it to: When we discuss matters against these issues, it seems that we have jointly completed, with the Council of State in the driving seat, to arrive at a certain progress around the colleges. There are positive things happening around the cooperation with the colleges. I also think that we need to work to increase interaction, work distribution and concentration between universities. It will strengthen the research environment, if we give proper priority, but it could also lead to Norwegian universities falling on international rankings because many of these rankings place great emphasis on having full latitude in the disciplines. However, I would say that I think it makes sense to stress that the major universities in Norway are cooperating more and sharing the work between themselves. I believe that, despite the fact that this could lead to that on some rankings we will have some challenges because the width will decrease. However, we will at least be able to ensure that we have strong professional environments in all disciplines that are important to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e795	The word knowledge nation is often used by us who hold the hall here. After all, on the basis of many and, in part, historical decisions, that we will be a knowledge nation. It has provided the basis for a knowledge-based business that needs delivery. This is why the interaction between academia and business is so important in terms of this knowledge. Knowledge-based business is also international. We are constantly seeing new examples of how good Norwegian businesses can be international, where they can actually lead the world in their niches. It also means that the academic is international and has the international look. Ranking is available, and there are consciously through the surveys carried out and the ranking lists drawn up. Even if someone doesn't use them, it makes it unconscious, and we have to deal with it. It's essentially positive, although we can discuss how these lists are to be drawn up. It offers attractiveness, it allows easier recruitment, and not least gives it a cooperative position for educational institutions. The last condition is that you have a position internationally that makes it attractive to cooperate. I have to say that after hearing the Council of State, I feel that this merges into an image that we have discussed several times in this Chamber. The Council of State refers to the institutions and what they want and how they will evolve. When we're talking to the institutions, they're yelling at the state council, or at least at the political environment, because they should probably want us to have a vision, that we had a plan, that we had some goals that we set ourselves for the sector at different levels. I like the idea and effort of diversity in higher education, and that the national tasks should be done. But it is also important that we have clear targets for how to deal with the international education market. We are the owner and the sponsor, and then it is expected that we will give signals, give orders, and that we will also provide resources to complete the mission. Governments indicated that universities have high ambitions. I have to say that I am very much in agreement with the representative, Lien, who just pointed out that the colleges are fantastically good at working towards being good in their fields, working together to create good environments of competence. Maybe there's more to pick up at the university bit there? When they have such high ambitions and want so much, why don't they get higher on these rankings? That's what I think is a question we have to ask ourselves, and whether something can be done with our ambitions to give them inspiration, to give them resources that will allow them to reach further. When the Council of State points out that, indeed, the government has ambitions for universities, also in relation to what we are discussing now, and not talking about diversity and everything else, it would have been exciting to know quite concretely: what ambitions have the Council of State for our best universities seen in an international context?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e810	Thank you for an interesting and reflected interpellation and a thorough and wise state council response. Comparisons, and thus rankings, are as everyone has been so far, which has certainly come to be, in a world where students, teachers and researchers and all who are looking for and asking for knowledge and research, need to be informed in the global picture. So this is already going on with comparison. Still more people will need such comparisons, whether we like it or not, to say it that way. It is somewhat fascinatingly simple, especially when it comes to numbers, columns and such numbers, by making such comparisons. It is not wrong for this to happen, but it is important – as many have been involved – that such figures, such descriptions and thus such rankings are, first of all, always based on judgement, behind the figures are discretionary, and they focus only on part of the total activity that we want such institutions to carry out – i.e. the total benefit of such teaching and research activities taking place in such institutions. Thus, this is just as with the PISA study and the related debate: it is interesting, and such studies will become increasingly better at what they are investigating. And then it's at the limit of uninteresting in what it doesn't investigate, and what it doesn't measure. This will also be the status of the studies that we compare here today. I constantly look forward to the Fagerberg Committee's report on the benefits of research. I think it will provide us with a good basis for discussing what is in many ways the topic here today, namely research quality, further in the future – both how we stand in the global picture, and, not least, what is happening in our home arena. When I look forward to that report and that debate, it also has to do with me thinking that we absolutely need a review of our own incentive systems. For publishing and referencing, it is important, not least for the researcher and the research community that emerges well from such a publication and reference focus, but above all this is useful for what we call basic research, or science for the own part of science, and – to some extent – applied research. Much of the research that we appreciate more and more seems to me to be important for the overall creation of value in society, not least the research that is important for bringing up new knowledge into important policy-making processes, such as: development of our school system, addressing climate issues, energy challenges, etc. – publication and reference are less suitable to give a total impression of the value-for-use of that type of activity. In the end, it's interesting, I think, that we're always getting away in different debates, and we're getting a slight difference here in the room between position and opposition, where the opposition is asking for stronger clear state governance from above, while red-greens greatly appreciate that it's happening a little from below – that there are institutions that are free, by being stimulated by the government, evolving seas. There's a difference here in our views that I think is due to a position-opposition-debate more than an ideological debate. Others, sitting outside this hall, might think we should have come out the other way in such debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e829	The interpellant addresses the situation of universities and how they should be able to make use of international rankings. Striving to get a high ranking can help provide a good academic drive at an institution and a quality enhancement of universities. Making a living in an international academic environment may be important. And then the interpellant was also in the middle of the fact that the eagerness you had to refer to these lists was a little dependent on where you came from. It was probably not random that it came from Hordaland's representative, who now represents a university that has done very well, and which we congratulate on being on the Times ranking list – that they came out so high. But there has also, as the interpellant said, come a considerable criticism of how the lists are drawn up, and the measurement methods are characterized in the Uniforum by Vice-Chancellor Ole Petter Ottersen at the University of Oslo as sloping methods: 'Despite what measurement I'm commenting on, I've always shown that there's a methodological problem with these university rankings. And they only measure some of the activities and tasks of universities. Now we have a good example of how fragile these methods are. Initially, I'm not so concerned with rankings, but at the same time, it's a fact that both students and scientists add to them both nationally and internationally. Many of them are different to these rankings when assessing where to study or research. It's not a goal of the UiO itself to cut the height of these measurements, but what's being measured must be correct. Only in this way will you know whether you are getting better or not in the areas that are being measured. It is not done in this case.» When the University of Oslo falls from place number. 100 to the place no. 186, is a timely question to ask: do these rankings give a proper picture of a university, or should you strive to get better measurements on where these universities are located? I also see that the interpellant uses the term ‘our foremost universities’. For the Christian People's Party, it is an objective that all universities have an opportunity for academic quality development. We don't want it to be just the two leading ones to be looked at with an analytical look at how one can increase the level of ambition and the quality level. Therefore, I think that if you want to provide the Storting with an analysis of strategic assessments and level of ambition, it would be useful for all universities to be included in it. If we're going to attract foreign competence, it can be done in several ways. It may be either that we deliver as well as other heavy players on the subjects they have in a competitive relationship and that they choose Norway over other countries, but it may also be to offer new and other high-quality subjects, which meet the new challenges of the global big society. When the University of Agder went on to become a university, we were many who stressed that this was a starting line and not a finish line for us. The academic run that embossed the college on the way to becoming a university was very positive. These include: build up a Bachelor's degree and a Master's degree in mechatronics of high professional quality that delivers excellent competence to an industrial cluster that is very internationally structured. When large international groups choose to invest in the South, it is because companies deliver quality and solutions at a very high level. Perhaps it is more important that large international groups recognise the competence of the companies present at a location and thus also recognise the competence provided by local institutions than it is to be included in a list. A continued academic drive is to have strategic means of running both research and development at universities. I think it's exciting that the interpellant opens this discussion with a certain level of ambition, and it's exciting to challenge the Council of State to think level of ambition on behalf of all of our universities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e854	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for an important debate. The wish for Norwegian institutions to come to the top of international rankings is a wish that I hope all education policymakers in Norway have. Aksel Hagen tried to present it as that the ranking was a distinction between bourgeois and socialist. So I'm going to have to say that this is where the left takes up a classic center position. We're probably critical enough to believe that lists are all-inclusive, that they're always right, that they're always accurate. Dagrun Eriksen quoted Ole Petter Ottersen, and I fully agree with all the comments she made. But never measuring is not having respect for either individuals or institutions. You're going to expect something, you're going to be able to measure something marine if you have to admit that what you're measuring is not everything, either about an institution or about another individual. That's why it's important to want to participate. It is important to get as far as you want, but it is also important to have a clear sense that these rankings are not precise and comprehensive about the quality of our institutions. Therefore, I have to say that I am actually a little skeptical about the government's and SV's research time counting project. As one researcher said in the Research Forum, it's sometimes the time you don't research, that the thoughts of the most important research actually come. It is important sometimes to count gaps between research in order to count the quality of research. That's what I think I was wise to say. It's also a thought for us who think it's exciting to read scientific history, about the great scientists and the great scientists in our scientific history. You can wonder how they fit into our counting systems, in our rankings and in our institutions today. Had we managed to develop that kind of quality? Had we managed to develop the kind of research personalities that really contribute to the quantum leap of science in our structures today? I'm not so sure. But then to what's left's honor. If we're going to be able to achieve the goals we have, we're seriously concerned when the basic appropriations for the institutions are being pushed over time, as we now see them do. What basic appropriations are about is academic freedom. It is a matter of maritime administrations taking the kind of priority choices that institutions have to make, which are as close to scientists as they actually are. We are also concerned that we are now seeing places of study being increasingly underfunded, resulting in pressure on basic appropriations, and pressure on the quality of institutions. All of this helps to push the institutions into the ability to achieve the quality we want them to have. Maybe it's the fight for increased basic funding, the fight for academic freedom, and making sure that colleges are properly funded, which are some of the main things we can do if we want to bring our scientific environments up to a higher level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e869	There has been an ok debate, I think I can say – maybe a little predictable, but still interesting. I think maybe it was Aksel Hagen who tried to make this a debate about how much one should manage a sector, and that the distinction goes between position and opposition. I think I'll say it this way: in the Right, we have faith in leadership in great and freedom in small. In other words, those in leadership positions must be able to have a well-founded view of where they want to go and where to lead, and then allow as much freedom as possible to benefit those who will operate within – in this case – higher education. What we see from the government in terms of university, higher education and research policy – i.e. education and research policy – is that, in our opinion, there is a great deal of governance in small areas. In other words, a detailed management down to every smallest detail. It is also something which the sector itself complains about that these letters of allocation are extremely detailed, that they are strongly specified orders, while, therefore, the signals and direction are requested in relation to the major strategic discussions. What do we want with the sector, what level of ambition do we want, etc. This is left in many different cases, and it is also left in the budgets. On the right-hand side, we have – let's say – criticised the government several times for too much of the money, for example. in the field of research, are ear-marked and controlled. We want greater freedom, and therefore it was positive that the government in the last state budget did what Right did last year, that is to increase what is the free means of competition. The Council of State was in its contribution to something that I would like to get back to quickly, and which I believe is very important. In Norway, the last ten years have seen a stronger commitment to quality and competition in the allocation of resources. The Council of State referred to the Centres for Excellent Research. We also have Centers for Research-driven Innovation. We have the so-called Expert Centres, we have actions like Younger Excellent Researchers, etc. These are clear quality and competitive ways of allocating resources. That may be what the Council of State is criticized for, when I see that she is criticized by some researchers for pursuing a neoliberal knowledge policy. But at least we believe that this is right. So that's what's the starting point for getting involved in international quality comparisons. With all due respect: the SAC funds we use internally in Norway are hardly the answer to what I have tried to travel in my interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e882	There has been an interesting debate, which I hope can be continued in the discussions we are going to have in the years of science and, of course, in the future. It is striking that even if you try to raise a topic, as the interpellant heroically does, you immediately fall back on a discussion about money, economics and who complains about what. I had hoped that this debate would also be more about how to measure, and how to rank, and would give the interpellant credit for having addressed this question in the way he has done, and that he is involved in the discussion to which I invite, namely how we look at the very best in relation to the quality we are going to deliver, both in research and in education. So I feel a little bit in the middle of the right and left debates, where the left criticises that we count too much and the right that we count too little. Maybe I feel a little bit between Oslo and Bergen when it comes to universities. The mountains, which rank well, would like to have a debate on ranking. Oslo, who does not rank so well for the time being, finds the measurements difficult and has their weaknesses. Here, there's a little bit of different opinions depending on what kind of starting point you have. What is certain is that our quality reform, where the word signals that we are striving for quality, underlines my responsibility for getting quality in both research and education. The fact that we have rigged to our own quality assurance system through, among other things, The NOCUT system, is regularly giving us feedback on how to do this in the various disciplines. The fact that we have, of course, an exciting element of competition internationally, Nordic, all the time, also helps to stress that it is important to be good here – if not at all, looking at something, but that it is also important that you have the diversity that means that you see that others are better than yourself. There is also a great deal to be done to assess whether Norwegian research meets international standards. The Research Council, which I also want to mention here, has regular evaluations of the various research disciplines. In recent years, we have had many such evaluations, for example: of geography, social anthropology, sociology, physics, law, etc. These are university subjects which it is important to be evaluated and reviewed by international disciplines. These evaluations show that Norway is delivering well, but in some areas we have a way to compete in international competition. I look forward to further discussions on how best to assess and measure our results. This does not prevent us all from working to get the best possible quality in our institutions and stimulating them both for good research and for good teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e895	That being the case, it is no. 5 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e909	Case No. 6 is one of the two matters, along with case no. 7, which was exposed at the Stortings meeting on Friday. On that occasion, the Council of State, Kristin Halvorsen, has asked for the word, before we divide the speaking time, to make a comment. – With the agreement of the Stortinget, the President is prepared to give it the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e914	Before we start today's debate, I would like to regret the situation that arose in Stortinget on Friday morning. It is my responsibility to be present in Stortinget when dealing with the matters for which I have constitutional responsibility, unless otherwise agreed with the committee, the presidency, or if there is sickness. I have been a permanent representative in Stortinget since 1989 and am among those here at the house with the longest seagoing service. In addition, I have been trained by Hanna Kvanmo, so I know that there is no doubt that the presence in Stortinget will go ahead of everything. On Friday morning I was very concerned about a matter that was going to the Council of State on the same day. I therefore wanted to ask the committee and the presidency whether it was acceptable that we either push the debate I was going to attend in Stortinget at 1 p.m. 9, or if Minister of Research and Higher Education Tora Aasland could be present in my place. If this had not been acceptable to the Committee and the Presidency, I would of course meet in Stortinget. Unfortunately, the whole situation for me failed Friday morning. Of course, it is totally unacceptable for Stortinget that the person responsible for constitutional matters does not meet when matters are on the map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e925	The President has reason to believe that the Storting will accept the clear regret of the Council of State. At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after the speeches by the main speakers of each party and after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e936	I thank the Council of State for the complaint she made. The left is also not such a huge group on the Stortinget, but we have one rule, and that's that this hall is always the most important. I'm glad the government agrees. This is a matter on which there is a broad consensus, with the exception of the proposers, but it is an exciting debate in principle. As liberals, I don't like it either, I don't think it's disgusting to put hijab on small children. But as a liberal, I distinguish very clearly between what I don't like, and what I'll actually be willing to prohibit. I think that's a basic liberal approach. I am very pleased that all parties, except the Advancement Party, have that position in the Committee. It is also the case that politicians and ruling powers throughout history have had very many laws about what women should wear. Many laws have been made throughout the history of women's attraction. Since they were prevailing around the world, we've got something nice called human rights, which then actually also gives women the right to sail to decide what to wear in public space. I think that's classic, good rights that we're going to fight for, and that's going to be fundamental. I believe that such a ban clearly violates human rights. There, I fully agree with the Law Department's assessment. Then it's like I think it must be possible for individual schools to discuss different rules for attracting at school. The difference here is that if you make such rules at a school, it happens in a dialogue with parents. Then there's a conversation, there's a dialogue, there's a discussion about where our boundaries go together. There's something quite different than adopting a law in this room. You get a much better process, and you actually get an integration process that I think will lead to a lot of good discussions around the schools. In Document 8 there is a description of the history of the hijaben that the Committee does not support. It's generally a very awkward, cutting history that I have to say I'm amazed that the Progress Party is performing, which actually has history skills in its own group on how to deal with sources. I just want to quote the document we received from Muslim academic women, who have gone through the proposal: ‘The representatives of France do not provide references for their claims and there is at all no coverage in academic literature of their claims as to the origin of the hijab. It is also a monumental logical short-circuit to present the case complex in such a way that believing Muslim women carrying hijab in Norway and elsewhere in Europe are associated with, or express sympathy for, the Muslim brothers or other ‘Islamist movements’ by wearing hijab. The proposers also demonstrate their ignorance of both basic historical facts and academic literature on the subject by referring to the Iranian revolution in 1979 as a different starting point.» For me as a liberal, it's important that the state is neutral. It's important that the state act neutrally in all respects to all the value factors we have. This does not mean that we should have a state without attitude, but it does not mean that we should have a state that prohibits the possibility for individual citizens to express their personal position, their personal beliefs. After all, a logical version of what the Progress Party here is proposing must be to forbid the cross for us who are Christians, or other religious symbols. I believe that all individuals and all citizens of a state are allowed to have their opinions and beliefs also in public space, and should also be allowed to show it. It's a fundamental human right. I don't want a secular state where you don't have the opportunity to express either the faith you have or the opinions you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e959	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e962	I note that the representative repeats that it is not easy to put hijab on small children. But she will nevertheless not take any action in relation to it, with the exception of opening up the ban on individual schools, and repeatedly showing the right to human rights and the right to express her religious faith. That is the way we have pointed out in the motion to several judges in the Human Rights Court. All points to the fact that it is only when the national Parliament takes a legislative decision that such a prohibition can be regarded as legitimate and that other prohibitions in regulations or in other ways will not be considered as legitimate. Why does the Left argue that it is more legitimate for a principal and some parents in a school to impose such a ban than for the national parliament to make such a decision through thorough debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e969	When I say that I don't think it's easy to put hijab on small children, it's the same way that if you go to some of the dress shops here at Karl Johan, you have clothes to be on little girls, which I think little girls are going to get out of. I think that some of that is also disgusting. But that doesn't mean I want to go down Karl Johan and forbid it in the individual stores. That's what's the difference. We disagree with the interpretation of the Advance Party in relation to the Court of Human Rights. It is actually the way today that a teacher – I have also done it as a teacher – can say that kids are not allowed to sit with caps in the classroom. Clearly, there is no violation of human rights. There is no breach of any school regulations, nor is there any breach of anything else that we believe is illegal. A teacher must determine the rules of his class. Because it happens through a dialogue with the parents, it is a much better solution than the Progress Party has, which believes that this should be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e976	I believe that Trine Skei Grande here is somewhat unclear and partly internally contradictory in relation to what she says. On the one hand, you call this expression of your religious faith, and later, in the line change, you compare the use of hijab to going with caps. There is no doubt that going with caps, at least for the time being, is not interpreted as an expression of religious faith, as far as I have come with me. That's why it has to be considered to be something quite different than going with hijab. I want to go back to: isn't it more legitimate in every way that the National Assembly decides on this, as long as one can discuss whether this is an intervention, than that this intervention is done by officials at the lowest level in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e983	Here it almost seems as if the Progress Party reverses the argument, for here is the argument against hijab that it is a symbol of a religious faith. Does that mean that there is Islam The Advance Party is trying to combat this ban? Is Islam the great threat to be overcome? That is a completely different argument from that put forward by the Progress Party in Document 8. If you're going to fight the hijab as an expression of religious faith, you should ban it in all public spaces, not just in elementary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e988	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e992	The party of progress is the only party in this room that wants to ban hijab in school. Freedom of religion is a human right. I think we need to be particularly aware of this, because we are in Norway. Today we have a church of state in Norway. So we have decided that there is one religion that should be the religion of the state. Until recently, Christianity has had a clear and comprehensive place in the school through disciplined Christianity, religion, and vision of life, and the school’s purpose paragraph. Traditionally, school and Christianity have had close ties. In the Middle Ages there were convent schools that were established in the largest churches, and in the 1700s a number of priests went into the bust to get schools going all over the country. I don't want a society with one clear state religion that trumps everything. And at least I don't want a country where everything that doesn't have to do with this religion is forbidden. The proposal of the Progress Party is moving in that direction. I'm against some little girls being forced to wear hijab. On the same line, I'm against some children being forced into a religious sect that isolates them from society. But you can't assume that all the choices that are different from what you wanted to make are forced. When the Labour Party is in favour of rejecting this proposal today, it is because we are against a general ban. This does not mean that we reject the fact that there may be a problem in some places that some children experience coercion or pressure. We need teachers and school leaders with knowledge of the different religions and the ability and ability to gain an understanding between parents and school, thus counteracting and preventing coercion or pressure. Even today, as the case-law rapporteur, Skei Grande, said, it is possible for the individual school owner to prohibit clothing covering the face, such as burka and niqab, if this could hinder education. I think it's okay that the school owner has the opportunity to make such rules, when the reason is that it prevents education. But the use of hijab does not prevent the teaching; it covers the head – not the brain – of the student. Article 9 of the Convention on Human Rights states that everyone has the right “to express his religion or belief by worship, teaching, practice and observance either alone or together with others, both publicly and privately”. In the second term, the following is added: ‘The freedom to express their religion or belief shall be subject only to such restrictions as are prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society for reasons of public security, for the protection of public order, health or morality, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.’;» So, your freedom of religion doesn't stop when it violates mine. The community will intervene if your religious practice or practice violates Norwegian law. Does the Progress Party believe that those who wear hijab threaten the religion of others? In Norway we will follow the basic principles of freedom of religion and life and non-discrimination. The Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice has assessed what a possible ban on hijab will mean. They indicate that, in some cases, the European Court of Human Rights has accepted a ban on hijab in some countries. However, these decisions relate to countries with a fundamental fundamental distinction between state and religion. In Norway, we do not have a clear distinction between state and religion, as I have explained earlier. Therefore, there is little doubt that in Norway there is a ban on hijab in violation of human rights. I believe that the Progress Party is concerned with integration – to a certain extent at least. But in what way does the Progress Party believe that the proposal for a ban on hijab in primary school contributes to integration? A ban on hijab at school may, on the contrary, lead to more Muslims sending their children to their own schools where hijab is allowed. Therefore, such a ban may help to prevent rather than promote integration. In addition, I would like to know why the Progress Party will not ban other religious symbols on children, such as the Sikhs' Turban or the Calot of the Jews. What about Islam or Muslims that the Progress Party has such a strong need to regulate?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1025	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1028	I find it a little difficult to find out what the Workers' Party really means in the matter. According to the media, some people say that they are in favour of a ban on hijab. Others, as Marianne Aasen, said in Stavanger Aftenblad on 7 December 2010 that it would be up to the principal to find a solution if many students have problems wearing the garment that would hide the bearer's sexuality. In the form of a note, the Workers’ Party supports the prohibition of hijab as being contrary to religious freedom. This is a great contradiction in itself. One cannot both give authority to prohibit hijab and agree that a prohibition is contrary to religious freedom. So I really wonder, what does the Workers' Party mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1033	To the first question, it is important to say that we in the Workers' Party make decisions in this Chamber. So we can have open discussions in the media. But in the view of the Labour Party, it is important that we do not break the European Convention on Human Rights, which says that we do not have the opportunity to prohibit the use of hijab in primary school. Then we're open to schools where it feels like a special problem, may have different rules for the use of especially niqab and burka in cases where it prevents the teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1040	The representative Ljunggren himself quotes Article 9 of the Convention on Human Rights, which states that the freedom of religion, which the representative himself had in mind, can only be subject to restrictions adopted by law – only restrictions adopted by law can be imposed. I tried instead of Trine Skei Grande – I don’t want to repeat myself several times now: How is it that the Convention on Human Rights is black, compatible with leaving these decisions not to legal proceedings in this house, but to principals, teachers and parents at Norwegian schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1045	Firstly, it is important to clarify that we have received a thorough assessment of this issue from our leading lawyers in the Justice Department. I'll stick my trust in their judgment. I understand that the Progress Party does not. They have their own assessment, and that's okay. But as far as human rights are concerned, if human rights conflict with Norwegian law, it is nevertheless the human rights that are left over. They're trombones of Norwegian law. That's why we have to deal with the interpretations that the leading lawyers in the Law Department have in this field. We do that in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1052	The reason why the Progress Party has built this interpellation is that we believe that kids should not be forced to wear a garment that means that it should conceal the sexuality of young children. In the newspaper on March 8, it said: «In a Norwegian secondary school, a 12-year-old girl goes to a lucky hijab. Under the hijab she wears pants, dress and long jerseys. It's summer. "My father says hell is warmer than the hijab and I have to endure." The working party opens up the possibility for some schools to deal with this problem themselves. But who's going to tell the principal if the kids think it's a problem to go with hijab? Does the representative really think that the mothers of Muslim children dare to go to the principal and say that the daughter has a problem with going with hijab?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1064	For the sake of order, we do not now have an inter-pelling debate, but we are dealing with a Document 8 proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1067	I am against the fact that small children will be forced to use hijab, which I also explained in my post. But we also need to understand that this is part of our social development, which has gone in such a direction that there are many who feel that they are facing great resistance in the fashion industry. Trine Skei Grande presented it in a good way with a picture from Karl Johan. So bikini are sold to little girls all the way down to the 1st century. I'm more concerned that we're going to dress on the girls and be aware of what's going on, instead of that we're going to discuss hijab as the only symbol of girls and women's bodies. There's a lot else in this society that we should discuss instead of taking the hijab as the only symbol of this. I hope that the Progress Party can do so in the further debate here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1074	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1077	Let me start with some quotes from Stavanger Aftenblad on December 7, 2010. Step Skei Grande says: ‘The sexualisation of children in the context of hijab farming is disgusting, and we need to avoid it Schools are the best people to engage in dialogue with parents and children, and to understand why this is disgusting.’ [[...]] Marianne Aasen, chairman of the Committee of the Church, Education and Research Committee, says: ‘If a principal suspects that many children are going with hijab against her will, she must, of course, do something.’ Ola Borten Moe, the Center Party, now the Council of State, says that he ‘calls for a ‘disadvantaged view of values’ for young children in hijab, but considers that a ban must only be discussed when the problem of society has become a major concern for the community’. I get worried when that man now becomes oil and energy minister, if he believes that all problems should be addressed only when they become a major societal problem. At least I don't agree that there's a good way to approach these kinds of challenges. So I want to quote Sona Bashash, who is a psychologist at the College of Smallhammer and Muslim: In the Muslim environment, I experience a violation of myself as a woman. If a woman wears veil, she gets great respect among other Muslims. She's an honorable sister. But a woman like me, who does not wear the hijab, and makeup me like other Norwegian women, at best loses respect. Those who create such an atmosphere are the ones who fight for the hijab. But if they spoke publicly, would they have talked about the free choice of the hijab? she asks. My point is that there are certainly many adult women, many young women and perhaps even some girls in high school who go with hijab completely voluntarily. Probably a lot of girls go with hijab on a voluntary basis. Whether it is a third or two thirds who use hijab voluntarily, of their own free will, of their own free choice, is secondary to the matter. I think there must be a broad consensus in this room that there are some girls, and maybe a lot of girls, who go to high school with hijab for reasons other than their own free choice. I have a great deal of understanding that this matter is difficult. But what provokes me the most, is Trine Skei Grande and the Left's monopoly on liberality in this matter. Freedom is a good thing that needs to be protected, but it is not just the state through the formal law that can act as a oppressor. Often, civil society is the oppressor. It can then be in place with state legislation, precisely to preserve and strengthen freedom. There is also liberality, which the father of social liberalism, John Stuart Mill, refers to in the «About Freedom» as follows: Therefore, protection against the tyranny of the State is not enough; there is also a need for protection against the pressure of civil society to transfer its ideas and practices as universal, by means other than criminal, to individuals who do not wish to share them. To put it a little more popularly, sometimes the big community also has to protect minorities in society from pressure from others than the state. This case is an excellent example of that. I take sides for those who are forced by their social environment to use this garment, which everyone who has spoken has agreed is not desirable. I take sides for those who do this involuntaryly. I note that the majority takes sides for those who do it voluntarily, but this is not about who is most and least liberal. It's not like the Left and the Trine Skei Grande have a monopoly on being liberal. This is an excellent case in which the state must be able to intervene, precisely to ensure the individual an individual freedom of choice. So, the European Court of Human Rights is crystal clear that this cannot be done in any other way than through legal proceedings. And it is not right that human rights deprive Parliament of the opportunity to make decisions, but human rights deprive all other institutions in society – including the schools, including the municipalities, including the county councils – of the right to this possibility. There is no one else who can inculcate in the primary school; only Parliament. Today, Parliament is emphatically saying no, and is making excuses that are to a very great extent complete across European human rights. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1117	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1122	I want to take the Progress Party seriously and focus on a principleal and ideological aspect of the proposal. After all, in its purpose section, the party of progress has authoritatively clear formulations in the fight against taxes, taxes and public intervention – or, as Lien put it in his statement, ‘the tyranny of the State’. Prohibiting clothing, religious symbols and restrictions in freedom of expression and human rights is not the strongest form of public intervention a state can take against its citizens? And is this not in stark conflict with the liberal values on which the Progress Party builds, such as freedom of faith, freedom of expression and human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1132	If I had thought that the outcome of the position that Bremer shares, had been the absence of tyranny, I would have fully agreed with him. But the absence of the state tyranny in this matter, of the state's intervention in this matter, is that the social tyranny gets rulers instead. If we are to impose something on anyone in this society, I think it is most legitimate that the National Assembly, Parliament, do so. It's a vision I have, and it's a vision The European Court of Human Rights shares. I believe that it is more important here to protect the minority – or the majority – among these young girls who are forced to go with hijab than it is to protect those who pressure them to use hijab. Therefore, Bremer's position on this matter is not the absence of tyranny; it is another tyranny than that which the United Kingdom, Parliament, can introduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1141	One of the discussions in which I feel that the Progress Party does not agree with itself is whether or not hijab is a religious symbol. In March 2010, we could read that what they would actually forbid was so-called glamorous religious symbols, but little jewelry could be fine. We could read this in connection with the fact that Per-Willy Amundsen was going to promote this proposal for the Stortinget. Then I only have one simple question. I have today equipped myself with a cross. Will this, in the view of the Progress Party, be a brunting religious symbol that will be acceptable in the Norwegian school, or should it be prohibited in the opinion of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1150	In the hope of avoiding insulting someone, a slightly different age category from that represented by the representative Eriksen will well apply to today’s proposal. I have not experienced that there are so many who experience a small cross in their throats as neither disgusting nor oppressive. I have not experienced that this has a large extent – it is rather a use that is on a declining scale, perhaps, and one can discuss how lucky that is. I think it's a completely different debate. There is a completely different debate than a debate on a garment that is in a way present, in my opinion, in order to avoid men getting sexual interest from women – and in this case children. I have not heard this debate raised in relation to a cross in my throat, and I hope and believe that debate will never come either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1157	It's probably been a long time since the Progress Party lost its right to be described as liberal. I said that from the pulpit, when it was also forbidden which clothes women should have in the public room, on which they have had another Document 8. But what I want to ask about, what I don't quite understand, and what I think can be clarified with a short yes- or no-answer, is: is it so that you are against hijab in high school because it dresses on women? Or is it because it is a symbol of Islam? Because it is not the case that the Advance Party is willing to ban the Calote. I know a lot of Jewish boys who sometimes think it is demanding to have a symbol of a religion that is as controversial as Judaism, as they always have to show. I know a lot of sikh-boys, who also use the symbol that they're Sikhs, and who sometimes think it's tiring. But that's how childhood is, and sometimes has a choice to have such a cultural background, and one is part of that legacy. So, is it because it's a symbol of Islam, or is it because there are women who carry this symbol that this symbol has to be banned?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1166	I know that I'm simply confused that those who are followers of hijab in high school are doing this to make this a woman's argument. They're actually saying that you're assuming that you're legitimizing, that it's women's responsibility to make sure that men don't get sexually attracted by women. What is it like to approach this? I just can't understand how this can be made a woman's argument. Here you have a garment that I believe – I was tried instead – that I have quite good evidence of is that you should avoid men being sexually attracted by women. One assumes that there are women who are responsible for not being sexually attracted by men. What kind of woman's vision is that? I find it hard to understand that the position of the majority in this case is a woman's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1171	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1174	The last decades have given us new and exciting challenges in terms of diversity and integration – new cultures, new religions and new democratic understandings. The matter today contains all of this and is thus a small test of our ability to meet the challenges of diversity. For my part, I have experienced that this diversity has challenged me many times, and that through it I have learned to deal with matters in a new way. I'm grateful for the increasing ability of roughness this has given me, and I experience that many others think the same way. So to the very proposal in this case, the proposal to ban the use of hijab in high school. For the Right, this case has actually been quite simple, not simply because we don't see challenges in the topic being brought up, but simply because the Right believes there are limits to politics. There are limits to what we politicians must decide. The right considers it necessary to state that the clothes you wear, and the tradition or symbol value of these clothes, are and should be a private matter. The proposal involves an intervention against children's superiors who go far into the private sphere, and it cannot be included in the right. I'm very pleased that a solid majority in the Chamber are in favour of confirming this limit, and through the vote, we as politicians are not going to cross that line. There are limits to politics. It is not difficult to consider the use of symbolic clothing in children and young people, whether it is hijab or other clothing. Personally, for example, I am. shocked by the messages children are allowed to carry on T-shirts, jerseys and jackets. I ask myself what the superiors have thought. I don't like what I see, and I can promise that my daughters are terribly bad at me getting involved in it. Yes, I'm also so old-fashioned that I refuse my children to wear hats, and that's bad for my son. However, these are matters between me and my children. We can't start on the line that as politicians we have to regulate everything that we don't like, or what we're opposed to. We have to take responsibility for the children, and it's well enough to remind all of us of the task as good role models. Children who are forced on clothing that gives them problems are something we have to take seriously. However, legislative proposals are not the thing. We have to deal with that in other ways. Finally, I will return to where I started. The challenges we face, we naturally consider with our eyes, based on our experience, our cultural heritage and background. It's going to be a fast challenge when what we're discussing has a completely different starting point. With this in mind, I must conclude by saying that I am not sure whether the proposals of the Progress Party would help those children who are supposed to help. The complex emotional picture associated with the use of such clothing could, by a ban, create completely new and other challenges for which we are unlikely to see the scope of. The majority of the Committee has reached a good decision and reaffirms an important principle that we in the Right appreciate: there are limits to policy! Something belongs to privacy and is the responsibility of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1192	If the Progress Party had been a consistent, knowledge-based party, they would have discovered and assumed that there are many different reasons why girls and women are using hijab. One is religion, another is habit and tradition, a third is fashion, a fourth can be a form of marking a position in just current debates on immigration, on inclusion, on the place of religions in a society that continues to operate with a close connection between the state and one of our religions, and a fifth can be that it is an expression of oppression and coercion. On what basis and on what basis should a ban be imposed? If the Progress Party had been a consistent knowledge party, they would have presented in a better documented and more despicable way in their proposal for a representative what has been introduced as follows: ‘Hijab has a history that is important to know’. They use two sources. One is Walid al-Kubaisi, an atheist and an Islam-critical activist – a good source, for all things, but one should not have much information in this debate to see that his history description is mildly said to be highly debated. This is probably also why the rapporteurs are given a reference to the Great Norwegian encyclopaedia in their text of the proposal, so that there are two sources to refer to. I'm not sure if it's allowed to accuse anyone of cheating in this room. Therefore, I choose to express myself this way: if this had been a text written in a school context or in a university context, I am sure that the student or student would be challenged by what is the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia here being used as a reference to. I don't get it. Or, I know at least that the presentation of hijab in the Great Norwegian encyclopaedia is a completely different from what the FrPs do in this representative proposal. In this encyclopaedia, it says, among other things. under ‘hijab’ that ‘this veil is pre-Islamic but was continued in Muslim communities’. It is quite different from what the proposers provide: ‘Hijab has a history that is important to know’. If the Progress Party had been a consistent liberal party, they would have been reluctant to resort to bans and punishments against people who dress in a way they dislike, or – perhaps as much – as they don't understand. At that time, the Progress Party would, on the contrary, have used more liberal instruments such as wonder, curiosity and, after a time, argument for its own positions in order to influence and change, whether that is what is desirable. If the Progress Party had been a party that consistently took sides for girls and women who are oppressed in society, they would have decisively turned to all the garments and clothing that come as a result of, for example, the disgusting sex and beauty rule of society. On the other hand, I am really glad to see that the FrPs are engaged in this debate, as in particular. marks battle days as March 8. There's no commitment to see from the Progress Party here, at least no prohibition discussion. Why are you in the Advancement Party so selective about what kind of clothing and what religion clearly plagues you? If the party had been a party that was fundamentally opposed to religious symbols, clothing and markings in the school, the party had had to forbid cross, would have had to strike down on Smith's friends schoolgirls who wear skirts, or on others who wear other religious garments, such as turbans. To me, this hijab cruise is clearly an expression of the Manic Fear of the Advancement Party, not of other religions, but of Islam. It's hard to see it any other way. It's not a fight against female oppression, and not a fight against religious coercion in itself, but it's a fight against a particular religion and a particular garment. As an SV, it is natural for me to accept hijab, not only in school, but also in the police, in the courts, in the defense, in the register of the Cooperative Society, on the Stortinget, etc., precisely because we cannot ban everything we do not understand and everything we do not like. We have to open, democratic debates in our society, and not attack it in the way that the Progress Party is doing now. If the Advance Party is sincerely concerned with the harassment of girls, I recommend that you place on your PC their website of the organisation that has already been mentioned, Muslim academic women. Then you will get a better understanding of what this field is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1214	The President recalls that all speeches are to be made through the President, and not directly by contacting individual representatives or parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1217	The Storting has yet to deal with a case from the Progress Party to ban hijab in school. After what I found out, it was about the same question of discussion in 2004 when Kristin Clement was Minister of Knowledge. It either shows that you have faith that only one repeats a matter many times enough, gets an impact on it, or that one believes that the use of hijab in school has now become a huge problem in Norwegian school or in society. So the question is: is the use of hijab a major problem in Norwegian school or community? Is there an increase in the number of girls that a mean coercive hijab? Is the ban the right answer? The party of progress claims that hijab is a major problem, because it is a symbolic garment that is oppressive to women. However, in their own comments, the proposers stress that there is disagreement in Muslim environments as to whether hijab is to be considered a religious or a cultural/traditionally contingent garment. No matter what you think hijab should be, there is no dress code in the Norwegian school today – or that is, there are many. A person may wear such a will, culturally, emotionally or religiously, as long as it does not hinder education. Hijab, or Skaut, is, as far as I can see, not a big obstacle. The school must be a place for everyone. The school shall teach children about equivalency, understanding and respect for man's self-value. So that's what you have in your head and heart that means something, not what you have on top. However, prohibiting the use of hijab is a strong intervention in the freedom of individuals. Do we want a state intervention in people's right to wear a skate? Niqab and burka I can understand, because it covers your face and body and makes it difficult to identify you. But I believe that using forces to ban the use of hijab in school is the wrong way to go, if one does not want little girls not to use hijab. What about the Sikhs' turban and the Jews' kalot, as mentioned earlier. I think it is better that one in the process of integration has respect for other people's way of life, traditions, culture and religion. That doesn't mean we have to equal everything, but it's important that we are conscious of our role. It should be more important for us to focus on teaching kids to conscious, critical and marine thinking about why we do what we do, mean what we mean, and dress the way we dress. Freedom of expression is important to our society. As a liberal party, it is probably also important for the Progress Party. That's why it's a paradox to me that what a seaman thinks is an opinion, i.e. the use of hijab, is good to forbid when someone doesn't like the expression. The Private School Act opens up religious schools. Muslim girls should be able to choose to go to their own Muslim schools in order to have the right to wear their headgear, hijab, will be a setback for inclusion and integration policies. Such a ban will undoubtedly help to put pressure on such developments. We don't want to. We therefore believe that it is better to work for equality and equal women's views in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1236	The debate on hijab is not simple. It's complicated, and it's emotional. It strengthens the canyons and the distance between the North. The matter is not unique, or black-and-white! The president of the newspaper on 7 December 2010 describes this in an excellent way: ‘Little girls being wrapped up in impractical religious garments are contrary to our modern ideals of childhood freedom and opportunity, and of equality between little girls and little boys. We disapprove of developments when Muslim girls are subjected to strong pressure to wear hijab as evidence that they are ‘decent girls’. However, the prohibition of certain clothing by the State is not a development that we can support. There's a difference between what you don't like and what you want to forbid. A prohibition violates both freedom of expression, freedom of religion and the rights of parents to bring their children into line with their own values and beliefs.» Society has become much more diverse. When I grew up, hijab was a very rare sight. You sometimes saw it on the slides of some munitions, but today this has become much more common in the cityscape. In the Official Journal of Drammen on 6 January 2011, we can read that today's children may have a completely different view of hijab than what we have. We see a hijab with a girl in, but the students at Marienlyst school see Marha Shamsajeva with hijab. What I think is perhaps the most demanding thing about the argument of the Advancement Party is that they easily conclude that hijab is not a religious symbol. It is not up to people of religion themselves to consider the meaning of a symbol. The members of the Committee received a long e-mail from Muslim academic women, which gives a thorough explanation of the indiscriminate and erroneous history of the Progress Party and the depreciation of hijab as a religious symbol. Students at Marienlyt School also have a different view in the article in the Drammen’s Official Journal: ‘It’s religion, they say almost in choir.’ As long as someone thinks this is a religious symbol, a majority cannot deprive them of the right to believe this. Should one have made such a prohibition, the Advance Party must at least treat religions in the same way. What about other garments - Jewish tippah or orthodox Jews' curls, sher with the turban, Smith's friends' girls with long hair and skirts, big cross and david star? There shall be no brunting religious symbols, the Party of Advancement has tried before. Today I felt the need to put on something that might be described as a glaring religious symbol. Would this cross be allowed to carry? It must certainly be allowed to use your head — even for religious garments. Article 9 of the Law on Human Rights states that everyone has the right to: «either alone or together with others and both publicly and privately to express their religion or belief, by worship, teaching, practice and compliance.» In the second paragraph, as the representative Ljunggren quoted well, it is about my limitation is limited by almost the right to exercise his religion. And as Kristin Walstad asks in a chronicle in Our Country December 20, 2010: «In what way does Frp think girls who wear hijab threaten the other’s religion or secularity in Norway today? And what law do you consider to be based on when you make such a proposal?’ Such a ban could also create polarisation in the Norwegian society, as the Newspaper writes in its leader on 7 December 2010: ‘But it goes without saying that it would be an offense to force young children to choose between being loyal to their parents or to school and lawmaking. Such pressure cannot expose a responsible, modern, liberal and open society to, at least, young children.» What makes me sad is the signal effect of this debate. When the Progress Party forces the actors of society to participate on the principle side of the debate in order to defend a right to wear a religious garment, it may be that there is a signal that it is expected from us and desirable that all Muslim girls should wear hijab. That's why I want to stress that I don't like hijab. As a Christian, I am aware that hijab is not a garment that expresses my religion. I see the hijaben and the obstacles it can create, but I want to see the girl. But we can't ban everything we don't like. The feminist in me doesn't really want to be principled. Therefore, it would have been much more important that this debate had been about that we would stand up and defend the girl who chooses not to use hijab to express her religion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1272	This matter has been thoroughly elucidated through the debate. The disagreement is very clear between the Progress Party on the one hand and everyone else in the Storting on the other. But if we were to try to sort a little bit in the arguments, I'd say it's really about three things. One is, is it possible to prohibit the use of hijab on children? What we have seen in reviewing human rights and the law suggests that it is not possible to ban hijab on children – a religious expression – in any case. Then is the next question: is it desirable, if it would have been possible, to ban hijab among children? I do not know if the representatives of the Progress Party have used the imagination as to what kind of episodes could have occurred. In Norway, schooling is compulsory. It's a duty for every child to go to school. If you were to have an obligation to go to school and at the same time a ban on using your own religious clothes, it means that there must be someone at the entrance to the schoolyard and take the hijab of little girls. It's completely unimaginable in my eyes. The last thing is: Is it desirable for young children to go with hijab? I think that is a much more important and nuanced debate. According to my observations, the use of hijab among children is something that has been debated among Muslims — a phenomenon that is about to rise, which is more common in Western countries than in Muslim countries, and I think it is largely about a desire to control the development of the little girls from an early stage. Little girls may often want to dress up themes that their mothers wear. It certainly applies to Muslim girls and hirabs, just as it applies to all girls and high heel shoes, lipstick or whatever it might be. It's a little different. What I mean is this is about, is the desire of parents of course to raise their children in line with their own traditions and in line with their own religion, while as a society we want to enable our children to make their own choices as they mature into it. So what I want is that the schools where principals and teachers feel that there is a certain pressure towards parents and small girls who are not initially using hijab, but who may feel that group mentality puts a certain pressure on them, take up that discussion and are very conscious of the pressures you can face and are very conscious of communicating that what we want in Norwegian society is that children and young people should get the best possible basis for making their own choices when they mature. From that point of view, I think it is important that schools discuss this and other phenomena in a respectful way, which makes it possible to engage in dialogue with different environments. Because what you achieve very quickly in this kind of debate is that the parents who have children who use hijab feel that they are not being respected and drawn away even more, and that you do not get to the discussions that are actually quite important. I think it's two completely different things to discuss hijab on small children and to discuss hijab on adult women. I know a lot of beautiful, strong, very conscious, feminist women who use hijab, who have chosen it entirely on their own, and who feel that it has nothing to do with something they're ordered or expected to do, or that it's about repression. As it is conveyed to me, it is partly about getting respect for a religion; it is partly about showing self-confidence and security as a Muslim woman, and it is about showing a stand. I don't know if you observe youth cultures like I do myself – and amuse myself – but it's also that you can see young girls with hijab, but that's quite challenging. So I think we should be a little careful about putting all the observations in the same booth in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1285	There is a line change limited to Tord Lien, I would almost say – limited to 3 lines. The first recorded is Tord Lien. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1290	There are certainly many, certainly both children and adults, who go with hijab fully and entirely of their own free will. What we're discussing today is that there's a significant, but unknown number, that doesn't. Then it's like the committee majority -- I think the council kept a reflected and good post even if she concluded wrong, or different from me -- has had a slightly tougher tone today, and they say in their attitude that this must solve the schools locally. I then wonder if the Council of State believes that there is a basis for human rights and Norwegian law so that the municipalities or schools can ban such a ban, or whether, as I interpreted it in the input of the Council of State, it is not possible to implement such a ban at local level either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1295	I do not read the comment from the majority of the committee in the same way that Mr. Tord Lien does, because I do not feel that the majority is asking for a ban to be imposed on hijab locally. What is clear under Norwegian law is that niqab or burka — covering the face that makes a teaching situation difficult and that may make an examination situation difficult, for example. – may be prohibited by the local legislation of the individual school owner. But hijab there is no law to forbid. I read the committee majority there that they fully agree with me, namely that these are issues that need to be addressed in the event of a discussion with parents, with teachers and with children. But the crucial thing is that not other children also feel pressured or that other parents feel pressured. I have experienced getting enquiries from other parents who say they think it is a pressure for their child to go with hijab. Then, of course, it's a matter for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1302	Then I think the Council of State is very clear about what I have missed a little bit from many of the red-green politicians – whether it is a third or two thirds or half or what it is now – namely that there are people who have chosen to go with hijab today because it is a social pressure from some groups, and there are also people who are not doing it today and who are being pressured into it. Is it such that it is the current Council of State, the current representative of the Great Britain Ola Borten Moe who is right – shall we wait until this becomes a major social problem before we take the necessary action, which is clearly legitimate as long as it is done in this Chamber, and is not legitimate under either the law or human rights if it is done at the individual school?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1307	We have approached this question both in principle and more normatively. The fundamental objections to a ban on hijab do not change whether there are few or many. The discussion about how to deal with that pressure or the desire for control of the development of small girls is something you have to deal with regardless of whether there are few or many. But I think it's healthy that that discussion goes on. What is a very serious objection to the approach of the Progress Party in this debate, and which I would ask Tord Lien to reflect a little in peace and calm afterwards, is that this procedure probably only leads to one thing, namely, that the environments that today engulf their children are shutting themselves even more inside, and that the freedom of these girls just gets further away.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1312	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1317	Articulate theme: ban on clothing. I wonder if there is still anyone who remembers being banned in China in 1996 from yellow T-shirts? "Human Rights in China" was the slogan that time, I think. During the second World War, we also had a ban on headgear in Norway. The occupants introduced the comic ban on red nislus. And if I don't think wrong, it's not that many years since there was a town in France that tried to ban jeans, against ola pants. Think about it! And now we've got a creative proposal from the Progress Party – yes, at least it goes well into the line of previous comical and unthinking suggestions, in my view. All human beings have the right to freedom of expression and religion. But the right to religious practice stops when he violates my religion. That Muslims will use hijab, in no way threatens my religious freedom. Prohibiting hijab for children in school, on the other hand, is an infringement of the individual's right to exercise faith, and it's a violation of human rights. I would strongly advise the Progress Party to get involved in what hijab has faced in historical context, and what he stands for today. History of the veil for women dates back to the Assyrian era, that is, more than 3,500 years. Gradually, this was incorporated into Judaism, into Christianity, and eventually into Islam. As the representative Aksel Hagen was inside, hijab today stands for many things. I can add to this list that he stands for both liberation and resistance. He stands for identity, but also for piety. When the party's proposals appeared, and especially the argument about the ban, it struck me that this has been heard before. This is very similar to what the English and French said as colonists when they wanted to "free" the women from what they thought was a slave-like existence. A ban in school, if any, would create an unnecessary conflict situation for the children. Do not the proposers see that many children will have to break the loyalty of the family in order to go to school? What association will they have with the Norwegian common ball, which builds on tolerance, on deficiency and on inclusion? For me, it's not the question of prohibition or one that's the most important thing, but that the school makes sense of religious freedom and tolerance in relation to other religions. Only if students learn about other religions can they exercise the statutory right to religious freedom. How in all the world should a child be able to choose his religion freely if only one religion is known?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1333	The Tord Lien of the Progress Party believes that it is more legitimate for the National Assembly to give a legal ban than to assess the situation in each school. Then I don't think the Progress Party has understood what the barriers are, that any prohibition not only must be legal, it must also be necessary and proportional to what you want to counter, and that is exactly what the Law Department has pointed out that you do not have immediate coverage to do. The majority then believe that it is more appropriate to deal with this individually in relation to the girls who experience that coercion, that pressure, than to ban it in general. It also means that if you experience a culture developing in a school for girls to experience this pressure, or a social expectation, you can involve FAU, you can have discussions about it, and you can regulate the use of clothing in general at school. My concern now is to comment on a legal reference which the Progress Party has made to a judgment in the European Court of Human Rights, the EMD, on which they lean quite heavily. They refer to the judgment of Pichon and Sajous v France, and they write that this judgment shows that «Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights deals with the right to exercise religion, not with the right to dress or behave as one wishes in the public space». [[EMK]] I have read the verdict, and after doing that, I wonder if the Progress Party has done the same thing. The judgment is about three women who in 1995 went to a pharmacy in France to buy prescription contraceptives. They were met by Bruno Pichon and Marie-Line Sajous who owned and operated the pharmacy. These two refused to sell the funds on the grounds that it was against their religious beliefs. In its assessment, the EMD points out that Article 9 is primarily about personal conviction and individual conscience and protects actions closely linked to the type of issues such as: «acts of defence forming part of the practice of a religion or a purpose in a generally accepted form». That the use of hijab in general is to be regarded as religious practice is covered by Article 9. It has been pointed out by the Ministry of Justice in its review of the established case-law of the EMD. So this quote is in the sentence that the Party of Advancement pushes in front of it: «However, in safety this personal domain, Article 9 of the Convention does not always guarantee the right to remain in public in a manner governed by that purpose.» What the Court has done is first to explain the scope of Article 9, then the limitations in it. The Party of Progress has quoted the restrictions without quoting the scope. To all intents and purposes, the restrictions put forward by the EMD have been quoted when the Court is discussing a matter which is in no way comparable to what their proposal for a representative is about. In other words, the legal basis for this comment from the Progress Party is so infantile that even a law student in the first department would have joined the reading room all the way to the reading room if he had been exposed to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1359	It was interesting and insightful.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1362	I can reassure the representative, Hadia Tajik, that the quotation we have used in our remarks has not only survived the first department of law study, but it is part of a master's degree project at the University of Oslo, which was passed with great success. When we first went into jus, I think it's a little funny with the touching care of the government parties at all times have for the Legal Department in the Ministry of Justice who is wrong every time we discuss something in this Chamber. I mention in short: the information service's fund, the shipping tax, the war crime case, the right of repatriation and the climate quota law. That's the five things I come up with. They agree that the majority in this Chamber, of which the Progress Party has always been a part, has been right – the legal department has been wrong. So, of course, the government parties can continue to trust them. I have to admit that I think it's okay to listen to lawyers other than the government's own lawyers. But when this debate, hopefully, is now going on for landing, I would say that I think it has been said a lot contradictory here today. I have to admit that I think the Council of State was the one who was closest to delivering a relevant article, which I also said in my reply, even though the conclusion was somewhat different from what I had hoped for. It was at least an article that was relevant to the overall debate in principle. It is clear that this bears the mark of being both a legal debate and a fundamental debate. I think that, in so far as the representative Dagrun Eriksen was concerned, something important. We as societies must stand up for all individuals in society who want to do something other than what the social pressure wants them to do. I believe that is what the Advance Party is trying to facilitate today. I note that all parties, other than us, disagree. I had so much respect for that, I would have come up with another solution. So I feel that the majority say that we have a big problem, which, according to Ola Borten Moe, hasn't become a big social problem, but it's a trend we don't like, and we don't have an interest in or a willingness to do anything about. It's sad, but I hope the majority will come back with some action on a later occasion. If not, I can promise those who have been concerned that this is very much like a proposal the Progress Party has promoted in the past, that we are going to keep this debate warm. Then we're going to hope that it doesn't go so far that it's going to be a big social problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1373	For the sake of order, the President would like to recall that the Law Department has a slightly longer history than Lien's memory – without going into the individual issues! Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2945]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1391	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1400	The starting point is a proposal by Dagrun Eriksen, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Rigmor Andersen Eide. It reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a proposal to the Stortinget for the introduction of bullying agents in each state.’ The proposal is interesting, and it goes right into a debate that engages many of us, who have been going on for a long time, and we may never be done with it. Bullying – albeit a word of new maturity, we may have used other concepts in the past – is something that has been happening almost at all times in school and in society. It's bad for someone who's going to be exposed to it. It's sad and pointless for the person who does it, and it's destructive for both the school environments and the community environments that are plagued with it. We have had debates on bullying many times before in the committee and in the big game, and we know that we will have more in the future in this session and in this big period. Some of the challenges for the Committee in this adjustment work have therefore been to agree with us on what is appropriate delineation given the starting question: Should there be a bullying agent in each state? The attitude is that the different batches have solved this in a somewhat different way after the Committee first made the point that bullying in school is a significant problem. It is serious when students experience that they are not taken seriously, or that the school does not intervene when bullying becomes known to the school. An overall committee notes and underlines the importance of a joint national supervision of the school's psychosocial environment. We had it in 2010, and we have it in 2011. It is important to identify just how schools, municipalities and county municipalities follow up on bullying. In this setting, the red-green parties have therefore been very pleased to signal that we will await the investigation of anti-tampering measures that the Ministry of Knowledge ordered from the University of Oslo for some time ago, which are apparently to be delivered before the summer, and where they are just going to look at the Ombudsman’s problem – among others. on the need for representations and, where appropriate, on the nature of the duties to be assigned to such representations, with a borderline approach to the county council and other bodies such as the Children's Ombudsman and the municipal student and apprentice offices. They have also been asked to consider whether any agent should ensure the legal certainty of students in general or whether the Ombudsman should focus exclusively on bullying. In case we're going to have such an agent in place, how are we going to organise it? And it is important, as I said, to look at the role of the county council in relation to the school environment, whether it should be strengthened in a cross-border approach to such a possible representative. The three red-green batches seem to have little reason to speed up conclusions before getting that investigation work on the table. The other parties in the committee see something different about this both in relation to us red-green and slightly between themselves. The Committee's recommendation for a decision is that the proposal for a representative should be annexed to the Minutes, whereas in the Committee's work it was proposed that the Contracting Party should: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring a case before the Grand Duchy in which various sanctions are imposed on school owners who violate the provisions of the Administrative Act relating to individual decisions and access to justice in matters relating to bullying.’ As item 2, the Progress Party wants the government to assess the creation of a student representative for primary school and that it is placed under the Children's Ombudsman. The Christian People's Party proposed, in committee, what is at issue here, to ask the government to make a proposal to the Grand Duchy for the introduction of bullying agents in each state. The background here is, after presenting the positions of the different parties in the case, that e.g. The parental committee for primary school receives a lot of requests that this is a big problem. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly proposed the imposition of such a ban. There, as I said, the Red-Greens will await that investigation, the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to stress in various ways – and have done so in the vote on this matter – how important it is to address this problematic issue, and want us to already signal some clear, concrete actions. I then put forward the committee's recommendations and proposals for decisions in this way, and I expect that any other proposals will come in the course of the debate. Let's get a good debate on this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1432	Once again we are discussing in Stortinget bullying, which is a serious problem in many schools. Too many students have a day-to-day school where they are characterized by harassment, unrest, a feeling that people are after them, and other variants of it. This time we have as a theme a proposal on bullying in all the counties that the Christian People's Party has presented. I feel that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget about combating bullying, and it is an important and clear signal from Stortinget that the law states that we will fight bullying. I think it is good that we have the debate quite often, because despite our decisions and despite our discussions, the problem is not solved. We have to fight bullying in many ways. The working party will take a lot of time to prevent bullying. We will take decisive action when it happens, and it must be through good contact between school and home. We have to make parental responsibility aware, and finally we have to make sure that the school owner and management are held responsible if it turns out that children have been plagued for a long time, and that the school has known that it has not been done. I feel that this is the kind of task that the Christian People's Party may have in mind when they propose this with bullying agents. This case is also about using bullying agents as an instrument when parents and children feel that they are not being taken seriously, when they feel that the only way to solve the problem is to change school, and when they do not feel that they are being heard. I've never seen numbers on how many children switch schools in Norway for the reason that they're being plagued, but I'm afraid there's darkness on it. I also think some kids actually start in private schools based on that reason. It's very sad that children who really want to go to high school must resort to changing schools. That's why there's a need to figure this out to see how big the problem is, and there's no doubt that there's a need to gain competence, perhaps from the outside, from others who can help when the situation's locked up. There may be discussion about something as simple as what really happened, because it feels different for different students, for different families and for the teachers. It may be a good idea to have a competent outsider. Who it should be, how it should be organized, and what kind of concrete task this should be, we in the Workers' Party are uncertain about at this point, and we are not ready to conclude. That is why I refer to the majority comment that we are in, that it is necessary to strengthen the legal certainty of the most vulnerable students, and that it is very good that we have now commissioned the Institute of Public Law at the University of Oslo to investigate the legal instruments that we should reinforce in relation to bullying, and to assess the creation of a student representative. Only by going through carefully what kind of tasks a student representative should have can we manage to place an agent where it should be, and where it is most effective, so that we can resolve as much as possible of the bullied bullying before it ends up in school, which we know will soon be the consequence. We are not prepared to conclude that now. That is why the Labour Party wants the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes, as the rapporteur, Mr Hagen, has said. Then we have to do a new round on how to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1447	Let me start by commending the Christian People's Party to help keep the focus on bullying up through the representative proposal we are handling today. The Party of Progress shares the ambitions and objectives of the proposal. The fight against bullying must be driven from day to day, and we can never sleep in our work of making the school an area without bullying. In recent times, VG Net through the Bry you campaign has helped to focus on bullying and the social problem that bullying poses. Many of the things this campaign has shown have been raw and brutal, and they have seen traces in everyone who reads about them. On that basis, there is reason to give praise to all those who stand up with their stories, and who can thus help several elephants escape the experience of what they have been through. Some of the things we've seen underline the meaning that the teacher can be the best bullying environment. The teacher, who works in the school, who has insight, can be early outside and intervene at a much earlier stage than anyone outside the school can do. It is important to stress the different educational leaders’ responsibility to intervene in that kind of case. If all the teachers in this country intervened early enough and the consequences for those who bully, the problem of bullying in Norwegian schools would probably be easier to reduce. The slopes of the adults in the school must be clear in all such cases. It is therefore important to stress that both the teacher and the traineeship are responsible for following the training law § 9 in an adequate manner. In recent times, we have also seen examples of people working in key positions in the school, apparently taking over their responsibility for facilitating a good working environment, as the Training Act § 9a first and third paragraphs describe. I insist on what I have also said in the media about these kinds of things, that teachers and principals who over time do not take responsibility seriously should find a job other than the school. There are no rooms in Norwegian schools for teachers and teachers who do not take the bullying problem seriously. The Progress Party has several appointments for the appointment of Vice-Chancellors on a yearly basis. If it had been practiced to a greater extent than today, it might have led to the fact that one could have measured the principals more closely to the fight against bullying. It could have had a direct impact on the traineeship. It is an effective and concrete measure that could be taken to help reduce bullying. It is also necessary, in the view of the Progress Party, to ensure a student residence in all the counties, which is responsible for taking care of their students' rights before all parts of the training law. This means that one will also have a special responsibility to follow up bullying at the individual school. We think it's natural that a basic school student camp is organized under the Barneombode, but located in the various counties, as is the Christian People's Party's intention with the proposal. In addition, it is very important that sanctions be introduced in the event of a breach of training laws, so that there is direct consequences in the absence of a satisfactory follow-up of bullying. There may be various sanctions available, including: to consider, of course, the remedying of the individual traineeship, possibly the individual municipality, if one does not comply with the responsibility of a person to fight down bullying. Therefore, the Advance Party requests that such a proposal be evaluated and submitted to the Stortinget. It is also important that the Storting today sends a clear signal to municipalities and county councils to support a practice that causes one in which the elephants must be moved as a consequence of bullying, take sides for the one who gets bullied, and move it as bullying. We must establish that once and for all, and that will facilitate the situation for those who experience bullying in school today. What's special about this case is that once again we see that the government party does not bring forward a single proposal in this matter to fight bullying in the school. One continues to pay out and pay out, and while one goes out, many elephants in Norwegian school still stand in the same situation and experience bullying. This multiplicity government should soon show far greater action than it does in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1473	The President assumes that the representative intended to address the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1476	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1481	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has addressed the proposals he has – in a way – referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1484	It is probably unnecessary to have a political debate here, too, in the United Kingdom, on whether bullying is a social problem or not. It might be interesting to have a political debate about which measures we think it might be important to put in place. Another debate that can sometimes be a good one to take, is where we set the limit of what we should politically concentrate on. I have recorded that some researchers – and personally I think I share that view – are a little warning against a debate about bullying tending to become an all-embracing debate, where both serious bullying and what we should call more everyday peer-to-peer push is put in the same category. It must be clear that serious bullying involves systematic and serious harassment of fellow people — at school fellow students — which can have major consequences for those affected. That's the kind of bullying that has to be in focus. Rather, we have to bear in mind that the debate on bullying often uses a general term that sometimes tends to be a little too far. But I would like to stress that it should not be perceived as debatable of the serious part of this problem. There are many things that the school is charged with. Some have said that the school is a gathering place for the many bad consciences of society. Not long ago we had a debate here in Stortinget on the Time Management Committee's report, such as. I agree that the school has gradually been given responsibility for a number of cases. In many cases, it is obvious that the school's ability to give priority to the most important thing, namely the teaching of the students. With regard to the bullying problem, it may also be one of society's bad consciences. However, bullying – for those affected – directly affects the learning environment of students, and thereby learning outcomes. It has no intention of providing the best education if, because of serious and systematic bullying, some students are unable to enjoy that teaching. That means that the bullying question may be a matter that is in a special class when it comes to these kinds of issues, where responsibility is often attached to the school. Then it is also important to establish that if the schools are to succeed in their work against bullying, society is more than just the school, even for the students. What we must be able to perceive as completely unacceptable behavior, that is, serious bullying, is deeply concerned with propriety – how we behave towards fellow humans, and how we view other people. What is acceptable behavior, and what isn't it? So there's got to be some boundaries here, and in school and in the school environment, it's the school that has to do it. Many have said that this is a managerial responsibility, pointing to teachers and school leaders. We in the Right, of course, agree with that. But let me remind you that former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik took a lead when he put bullying on the national political agenda. It gave results. The statistics went the right way under the Bondevik II government, when this topic was high on the political agenda. It has not so far been on the political agenda of the Red-Green Government, and therefore we have unfortunately also seen that statistics have gone wrong in recent years. I will come back in a later speech to how the Right views the concrete proposals, and also to other proposals that have emerged in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1501	The next speaker is Anne Wøien Tingelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1504	I have noticed that the president has some problems with my name! My name is Anne Tingelstad Wøien.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1510	I'll notice!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1513	Focusing on bullying is incredibly important. All parties agree. And as the representative of Warloe was just in on, we're also all looking for the good measures that can put an end to the problem. Bullying is not a school problem in itself. Bullying is a social problem, and it's not just in school it's a social problem. Much bullying takes place elsewhere than in school — on the school road, on the bus, online and at work. No child was born a bully. It's learned. Children learn to bully when they become participants in society in a social context. There may be different factors that make you end up like a bully, or like a bully. But we can come back to that in a later discussion. Today we are going to discuss in concrete terms whether we should have our own bullying agent in all states or one. At the Good Practice Conference organized by the Ministry of Knowledge a few weeks ago, the representative of the parents, Kristin Oudmayer, called for the importance of being believed when one stood up with his experiences. A bully would have had as his main task to believe in those who come with their affairs, and to help those who turn on, onward. The centre party is concerned about solving matters at the lowest possible level. It is possible that we have an excessive trust in the community, but I mean what Mother said, is the most important thing: to be believed. Who will believe in you? Well, the teacher is the most natural one to approach, or the assistant or principal at school. If one is to have confidence in the locals and the nearest to care, it is obvious that schools must have a continuous understanding, consensus and culture for what to do if someone feels bullyed. Action plans are needed in each school. In our opinion, conflict councils can also be bodies that can be helpful in bullying. If there is a culture for a low threshold to say from, we believe that a conflict council can clean up individual matters. Almost all county municipalities today have their own student representative. A student ombudsman shall assist the individual with the need for assistance to meet challenges as a student or apprentice. Essentially, I would like to say that today's student and apprentice agent is targeting students in high school. There may be a weakness in today's system. In view of the view of the Centre Party, the County Student and Apprentice Offices should also be helpful in bullying matters related to students in other schools, such as: in primary school. Parents must know that it is a person they can contact if they do not get the help they feel they need in the municipality or in the school they belong to. Basically, we all want there to be no need for a central bullying agent. Nevertheless, we are open to assess such a position. However, we prefer that a bully should perhaps be part of the Children’s Ombudsman’s task. When one comes so far that one needs the help of a central bully, it probably deals with, among other things. on legal aid and assistance. As we know, the government has taken a number of steps to reduce bullying. The University of Oslo is among others: assessing both legal instruments and whether to set up own bullying agents. Since the government has given the Institute of Public Law an investigative task that will be presented during the spring, we in the Centre Party believe it is both right and sensible to await the results before we decide on further measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1537	There is no doubt that being bullyed can set lasting tracks. Many people spend their entire lives working out the experiences of childhood and youth. In an article published in the Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association No. From 15 to 9 August 2007, authors have compared international research on the relationship between bullying and mental and somatic health. Their findings show that about 10 pst. by children and young people in Norwegian schools are exposed to bullying two to three times a month or more. Bullying may be associated with a number of health problems. There are strong stories that emerge when people first dare to tell what they have experienced. Many people find it very stigmatizing to tell their stories, because there is a lot of shame and misunderstood guilt in the stories of bullying. In the book of Kristin Oudmayer, «Because I deserve it? A book about bullying, hope and responsibility," some people tell their stories for the first time, and it's strong reading. In one of the stories, it is established that a child who survives bullying is not a victim – the child is a survivor. This shows, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that the fight against bullying must be waged all the time. It's no use with rest cutting in this game. In 2002, the Bondevik II government launched Manifesto against bullying and launched its zero vision. Both King Harald and Prime Minister Bondevik held new years of bullying, and schools were offered anti- bullying programs with documented effect. There were many who disagreed about launching a zero vision, because they thought it was unrealistic. But the strong focus and the ambitious goals gave results. While the bullying increased by an average of 10 pst. per year over the period 1995–2001, bullying was reduced by 30 pst in 2004. That means it's possible to reduce bullying in school. During the Stoltenberg government period, we see that the figures have risen again and have remained stable at an too high level. Bullying is complicated and emotional, and it is demanding for the parties involved to resolve the situation. When parents experience that they are not taken seriously in the meeting with the school, it is very important to have a place to contact and get help. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that a bully must be introduced into each state. There will be a place where it is easy for parents to contact at an early stage to get help on how to end the bullying. Such an agent could also have a driving role towards the schools, so that they are constantly working against bullying in the schools. Such an agent could also be a place where teachers can obtain advice on how to deal with bullying when it occurs. It should also be considered to provide the bullying agent with sanctions options, as they have in Sweden, and the possibility of bringing cases in the justice system for people who have had their school break due to bullying. The Christian People's Party does not believe that a student representative would be able to hold all these roles in the same way. The student representative will be much more focused only on students, while a bully will be an instance where both parents and teachers can seek help at an early enough time. What happens when human dignity is threatened in a society? The new purpose paragraph clearly mandates the protection of human dignity at school and an ethics in interaction between students. I challenge the Council of State to ensure that the purpose paragraph is used much more actively in the work against bullying in school. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘The training shall be based on fundamental values of Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition, such as respect for human dignity and nature, on freedom of the spirit, love, forgiveness, equality and solidarity, values which are also reflected in different religions and views of life and which are anchored in human rights.’ A little further down it says: ‘The training shall provide insight into cultural inadequacies and show respect for the individual’s over-interpretation.’ The objective paragraph contains many elements that give strong assignments to the school to address the fight against bullying. We need new tools in the fight against bullying. The Christian People's Party therefore promotes this proposal to introduce a bullying agent. So I hope we read more stories about bullying survivors that could say that the school is dealing with this in a completely different way today. In the book for Kristin Oudmayer, there's a mob survivor who says: "Today I'm fine. Today I have that top! Today I have a self-confidence of cement, thinking about all the times I was able to get up again after someone had dragged me down. Today I have forgiven everything, meet the bullies of the past with a mutual smile – it is forgotten. I'm grateful. My only problem is with the teachers. That didn't do anything. Who passed me like I was air when I begged for help."
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1570	The President has well understood that the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1573	I didn't quite do it at the end, but before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1578	Yes, on the way to the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1581	On Monday I sat on the plane to Ottawa, and after talking to my assistant for a while in my limited English, she suddenly realized that I was from Norway, and she began to speak Norwegian. She told me that she had been bullied all through school. When she was ten years old, she decided that she would never live in Norway. It was a country that was so bad that she could not live there. And she dreamed about the day she was 18 and could move from Norway. She emigrated to Canada and now runs a big business there. Then I think: what a talent Norway did not miss! So I asked, could anyone do anything? Yes, the parents had once tried to say from, but then everything had become much worse. Then I think, eight years from you decide not to live here, until you move – in the eight years, there were many people who didn't do anything, there were many who didn't. I believe that the primary responsibility for children’s plight is still with adults — adults who don’t see, adults who don’t do anything, adults who share attitudes that make bullying possible. The best way to combat bullying is to give the school teachers who are safe, good leaders in a classroom, who dare to go into all the difficult things, and who are not allowed to see because it is most comfortable. I want teachers like it's respect around, who have respect both in their classrooms, and also in school. That's the best we can do to combat bullying. But then we see many examples where the conflict becomes big, where teachers act like bullies, where the principal becomes more concerned with protecting his own teacher than with protecting his own students. We see so many examples of it that something has to be done. Therefore, there should be some outside school that students can go to and that parents can go to to get guidance on how to proceed in order to resolve such incidents, such conflicts and situations that students are faced with. I think the student officer can do that. I also think the Children's Ombudsman can do that. I think it is important that we do not create new bodies for all the problems we have, because then we get a lot of instances. Then I have to give a speech that I have given many times from this pulpit: I don't think we should be maligned with the word 'order'. Because we're the agents. We are elected representatives. That is why the Left has not supported the proposals of the Christian People's Party. Because we believe that the ombudsman's title should be linked to the elected representatives. But then I'm open to children who don't have the right to their own representatives. However, we should be very restrictive with the Ombudsman's title and how many representatives we are going to set up in our society. The function that the Christian People's Party calls for, that we make such a function, supports the Left very much. But where we add it, if we add it to already established institutions or if we create something new, I think the government can come back to. We're going to be very restrictive in believing that setting up agents means that we're being deprived of responsibility. I feel that some of the areas where we have agents today have been depoliticised, and elected representatives have been deprived of responsibility. How often do we discuss consumer policy? Compared to all the parliaments around us, we are discussing very little consumer policy. When March 8th comes, 15 pst. by Norwegian women say that in their working day they feel that they are crashing into a glass ceiling, who is the Norwegian media asking to comment on it? They're not asking Norwegian politicians, they're asking our gender equality agency. It depolitics debates, it deprives us of the responsibility we actually have to be drivers in the political debates we are responsible for, so I think we should be very restrictive in setting up new representatives. It depolitizes, it removes responsibility from the political sphere. So the title ombudsman is related to being elected to the people. It's a responsibility, but it's also a honorary title that we have to be economical about distributing to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1602	I am pleased with the great political commitment in the fight against bullying in school. It's regularly taken up various suggestions, and I think that the Storting itself has such a strong focus on the matter, contributes, and participates in encouraging the job that needs to be done every day around in School-Norway. There is no doubt that the initiative taken in 2002 by the former Prime Minister, Kjell Magne Bondevik, was crucial in order to get matters properly on the agenda again, at least some studies showed a decline. But there is too stable bullying over time — no increase in recent years, however, even though we have had an extensive effort, one in 20 children say they experience bullying every week. And we all know that if this is something that lasts a week or two, if adults intervene, it takes action, the bully stops, the situation of the bully, solves, then it's an unpleasant episode that doesn't characterize a whole life. But if it lasts for years, this is something both to the bullying and to the bullying can work with the rest of your life. Because the bully gets accepted for a behavior – you think – that you can never really get away with later in life. We also see that those who bully are overrepresented in sad statistics. So stopping bullying is just a win-win situation. We have launched many very concrete proposals about this. We have developed templates that schools and parents can use when complaining about the psychosocial environment. We develop checklists that schools can use in their work on the learning environment. We have had national supervision both in 2010 and now in 2011 to check concrete schools, and to learn from them. And all deviations must be closed – you do not submit until all errors are corrected. The educational environment perspective is strengthened in teacher training through the PEL subject. The learning environment is one of the main areas of the new teaching programme. The continuing training offer in classroom management from 2011 will have a major impact on the teacher’s authority and trust between teacher and student, and will be operational on it. We have implemented a new manifesto against bullying, where we now want the local level to participate and commit to the manifesto. As of today, 1⁄4 of the municipalities in Norway have written on – 111 at the last count I saw. There has been a strong increase, so now it is time to get everyone to make a commitment to the local work. In addition, an instructor from the Education Directorate has been created, which is a very transparent little case that goes to all adults working at school – all teachers, principals, assistants, cleaners, janitors – about how to proceed if you discover bullying situations. The proposal that is being put forward here today, I think, is a proposal that is interesting to consider in more detail. But I think it's important that we do it at the same time as we get the reports I've ordered from the University of Oslo. They're talking about two things. One is whether our legislation is sufficiently clear in relation to the bullying problem, and the other is whether there is a need to establish an ombudsman function. We get reviews from the University of Oslo before the summer. It is also about what kind of tasks an ombudsman could have, for example: to provide advice and guidance to students and parents in serious bullying cases. Another option is that the Ombudsman deals with individual complaints, as the county officials do today, or there may be a legal aid to bring redress proceedings before the courts. What I saw was the background to this assignment going to the University of Oslo. We saw that we were dealing with serious bullying when the statesmen went through what they had an overview of. There were more bullying there than is generally the case — cases involving students and parents. Parents say it's very difficult to reach schools and municipalities in that kind of case, so I think the primary need is a place where parents and students can turn to for help when they meet the wall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1618	In the VG on Thursday 17 February, they can refer to a play where Kristin Halvorsen says that she regrets that she did not intervene any more against bullying, and that she believes that she herself was passive when she saw bullying in growth. Now, as the responsible state council, Kristin Halvorsen has the opportunity to rectify any of this through concrete proposals, concrete measures that are conducive to preventing bullying. Kristin Halvorsen's government party is not in favour of any of the proposals that the opposition is making today. In the same article, there are also several proposals from an expert panel on concrete actions, including: states that there must be consequences for school staff who do not take bullying sufficiently seriously. What will the Council of State do to increase the impact of bullying in schools, and what concrete measures does it consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1626	When the opposition knows that two assessments have been ordered from the University of Oslo, one of which concerns the creation of a bullying agent or an ombudsman function related to bullying, and the other concerns whether the law is good enough to prevent bullying or bullying, this type of Document No. 8-proposal a little bit like turning open the doors. The opposition is well aware that these are proposals that are now being prepared and evaluated. I will, of course, accept those assessments, go through them and follow them up to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1631	The council said in its intervention that she was pleased with the great political commitment in this matter. Now that involvement has not been very large and visible from the government parties and from the Council of State earlier. For approx. a year ago called for, among others. We in the Right have a stronger commitment to the statistics on bullying cases, which went in the wrong direction during this government. Then we record that VG makes almost a big campaign on this theme, and then things start to happen. The national manifesto to which the Council of State has invited the municipalities is, of course, very good. But would this manifesto have come if not the VG had made their reports about bullying?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1640	I have a long experience in being an opposition politician, and the times that I thought I was the best, when I had some roughness to the position. Because it's not that the fight against bullying is something that just took place in Bondevik's time, or that was invented after the VG launched a campaign. Warloe is your member of the committee. He has excellent overview of all the proposals and measures we have taken to improve the learning environment and combat bullying. We've had an extra strong effort on it over the past two and a half years, and I think it's absolutely essential and necessary to keep that focus. I am very pleased that the opposition is also concerned about this, but I do not think this is a theme in which we need to compete against each other for attention, but rather contribute with each other to get a real drag in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1649	In my post I quoted from the school's purpose paragraph. I think that the purpose paragraph has so many good elements that are going to be used in this type of matter, and I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit as to whether she sees that this is a way to go to put bullying on the agenda in a slightly different way than we have done now. So I've listened very much to what the government parties have said here today. I am pleased with all the positive signals in relation to approaching an ombudsman function in this area. However, I have also seen that the Council of State has pointed out that it may be possible to extend the mandate of the child ombudsman to include this. Then it won't give any driving role to each and every school. There will also not be a low threshold so that a teacher can contact at an early enough time. Does the Council still believe that there is a child ombudsman and a central function that could be the right way to provide help to parents, students and teachers in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1656	I'm open to discussing whether an ombudsman function may have a slightly different type of content. But what Dagrun Eriksen is now addressing, that is, what goes on an ombudsman role that is more a driving role than a guard of work in terms of bullying, is one approach angle. What I initially thought when we asked for the investigation was that when parents and students report that they have met the wall many times – they have reported and taken up serious bullying and not reached, and many years later the situation may be solved because the child who was bullied has moved, or the whole family has moved – I have thought it has been heartbreaking stories, and we need to have a better system to provide help. Often, there may be a bit of demanding legal assistance. But I'd like to get back to that discussion when we get this investigation. And the purpose paragraph for the school is nice and must be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1663	What we're discussing here is actually some legal rights that children have: the right to a safe and good learning environment. It's covered by the Training Act, it's well-known to the Council of State. It's very exciting. So if private schools break the HMS Code in relation to the Education Act and other laws, they lose the right to run schools. The state takes over, the students are gradually transferred to public schools at municipal level. However, if public schools violate the HMS Code and the Training Act in other ways, there are no consequences other than that the county council sends a more or less sour letter to the municipalities. This is not the right of the government parties to vote for today, but: Will the Council consider whether sanctions should be introduced for public schools as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1670	That's part of the assessment that we've now asked for. However, it is not permitted in relation to the training law today to be neglected in this area either. You can be fined and jailed for this. What's our main challenge is that we don't have any examples of bullying related to the school situation coming up in the legal system. It's not because it doesn't happen, it can be because the law is too bad. Having said that, I believe that our goal cannot be to get the most legal cases out of this. Our goal must be to emphasize the seriousness and prevent serious bullying. We're doing that with a wide range of suggestions. My goal is to sit in the walls of all schools working with a good learning environment every day. We know this isn't about skipper roofs. We know that it is about having a generally good learning environment with generally good contact between teachers and students, with teachers who have a natural authority, and who intervene in... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1677	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1682	I have to start by saying that unfortunately this is an important matter that I think many people agree with me that we would rather be in addition. Bullying at school is a big problem. Many young people are having their childhood and youth ruined, and many people use large parts of their lives to process the terrible experiences. I dare say that much of the reason that as many as 50,000 children respond that they are being bullied is simply that the adults responsible for directing and raising the kids are inescapable. They turn their backs on and ignore bullying and other unfine behavior. The threshold for apprehending bad behavior and bad use of words has become too high. This may be the result of the policy pursued in school over many years, including: have helped to reduce respect for the role of teachers. It has, among other things, it has been more important to make the teacher a companion than to ensure that the teacher is responsible for the teaching, which also means to make the pupils a ‘gagn’ person, as stated in the Education Act earlier. If bad behaviour is not immediately addressed, this will increase and increase in scope. Therefore, bullying and plaguing of fellow students must be stopped immediately. That being said, many schools have also taken up and started different measures to eliminate bullying and improve the school environment. There is a link between bullying and boredom, and kids who play together can become friends. This is why several schools have started something called the Tribulation Programme, which is not an anti- bullying programme, but which can prevent bullying anyway. The programme is based on the choice of well-being managers for different leisure activities, the aim of which is to get the most out of the students. The requirement for the prosperity leaders is that they are kind and respectful to the students. Other schools have bought anti- bullying programs again for a few people who stopped bullying. But it does not keep buying the program. It must be incorporated into school everyday and used daily. It turns out that the schools that use the programs actively are getting down on bullying. The Progress Party does not support the Education DG’s conclusion on removing the appropriations for all anti- bullying programmes. Again and again we hear that the parents are not being heard. Parents who go to school to inform them that their children are being bullied and have difficulties in school or on the way to school do not get there when they contact the school’s management. This is why the Progress Party is in favour of setting up a separate student representative for primary school, so that parents and supervisors who do not get through to responsible school have a place to contact and get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1701	The bullying problem and the extent of it we have to grips with, but I think there's some despair among us that's discussing this here in the hall, because we don't have the fascination about how we're going to deal with it, so we get a lot of counting. A few comments: First of all, I would like to stress the comment that we are making, expressing concern about the Education DG's conclusion on removing appropriations for anti- bullying programmes. There are probably some programs that haven't worked according to purpose, but not having faith in and bet on preventive work is a resignation that I think is scary. I have to say that when I ended up as rapporteur in Grimstad, there were many questions about what I was most satisfied with. It was easy to answer the University of Agder and new campus and business and housing. I regret afterwards that I did not respond that the most important thing we did in Grimstad was to make Grimstad a MOT municipality. MOT is not a pure anti- bullying program, but an attitude program that is about empowering young people to make good choices and make everyone else care. I think that if we're really going to end the bullying, we have to have a little over four million bullying agents in this country, with respect to the Ombudsman concept, as Trine Skei Grande pointed out. It is a matter of taking responsibility for each one, each one of them having to care. Therefore, this is a difficult matter, and we in the Right have had a little bit of trouble with what we should do in this matter. We think it's important, if there's going to be four million bullies -- let's call it that -- to have a support system and have a place where things can be followed up. It could be tempting to go for both minority proposals, because both have something in them that could be good. We also think it is very important to look at sanctions possibilities. It's an experience that when there's reactions, there's an effect. The most important thing is not to be deprived of responsibility by individuals — seniors, role-seekers, managers at school and in recreational activities. The right will also clarify that here it is not about position and opposition, which there was a tendency to debate instead. So here, there's two of the opposition parties that are in the majority. We want to be involved in looking at current solutions. Then it's right to wait for the investigation that's on its way. That's why we don't support any of the minority proposals today, but we expect to get back to this in a thorough way. We also believe that we have done what Mr Warloe announced, that he would come up and explain why we do not support the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1716	Thank you for a good debate. I look forward to the next one. There's been an interesting debate, sailor if it didn't really turn out the way we almost agreed when we discussed the debate, that we should first of all discuss the issue of ombudsmanship and not take the big bullying debate. But as others have underlined, it is never wasted to focus on that theme. I tried, as the rapporteur-in-Office, to give a presentation of the thoughts behind what has been put forward here, and the debate we have had in the Committee. I was not allowed to take along the point that the Left has written in a good way both here, and that Trine Skei Grande has presented in the debate – some reflections about representatives. That's what I think we're going to take with us. It can be easy to ask for a new representative when a case complex arises in this way. There are two problems related to it: one is the issue of democracy, the relationship between an ombudsman and us politicians, but in this case also the relationship with other heavy important actors, such as county councillors, as children's representatives, as existing students and apprentices. The second, which is a bit related to this, and which several have been well involved in it, is that bullying is a complex and complex problem. For example, this thing about not forgetting the bully: we know that there's something basic sad about him or her playing that role there. All experience shows that they don't do well in any way, and they may not be able to do well in life if they don't manage to fix this. There's been some good stuff about this, and let's take it with us. In the introduction to the debate that will come, I would like to signal that I initially have a great sense of using and further processing existing appliances and systems when we are going to focus more on this problem of bullying than we are going to separate it. For this is not a sub-theme; it is a whole that has to work here to get rid of, or at least to decrease, this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1728	I'm going to try to move over into the slightly more noisy corner than what I was in during the first post, because the Council of State is in many ways more attentive to the debate today than we've seen her for a long time. I'm glad. What's decisive is that the work we've now asked for, actually goes fast and is highly prioritised by the Council of State. I expect that from the signals sent today by the Council of State. So to the answer that the Council of State gives to the reply of the representative Tord Lien, to the possibility of sanctions and to the legal system: I believe the Council of State is quite right in that it is not a goal in itself with the most possible legal cases. I believe that if we get a judgment that clearly establishes responsibility, it can in isolation help to make the focus to school owners much clearer in this area. On that occasion, I look forward to the legal work that may come as a result of what we have now ordered from the University of Oslo, and I hope that it can be with and strengthen the fight against bullying. In addition to that, I notice that the Left and Center parties today are discussing a type of student residence, which would like to be placed under the children's environment. That is the same thing as the Progress Party is proposing today. I realize that it is unlikely to be supported, at least not from the one party. Although in many ways it meets the intention of the Central Party representative's post, I do not expect that we will receive support for it. But it's a signal that it's important that the Council of State also take with it already from the Storting, a signal as clear as the Center Party here is to give. In summary, I would say that with the positive signals coming from the Council of State today, the Progress Party promises that we will continue to be constructive in future with regard to concrete proposals in the fight against bullying. It's a shame we don't get multiple numbers for the proposals we've actually made today, but we're going to have to do that again in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1739	It's uncertain how many these things apply in school. We've heard numbers like 40,000. While I've been working on this matter, I've tried to think, what if this was 40,000 who drowned? What if this was 40,000 who were exposed to other things? Then, indeed, the political environment had raised its sleeves. Had there been four who had drowned, we would certainly have made both new laws and made great efforts. I think this can almost feel like being mentally drowned in the middle of school everyday life, and that's why I'm glad the Stortinget takes the time to discuss this in full width again. The Christian People's Party was given the impression that all schools would either have an anti- bullying program or an action plan against bullying. We were happy about that. We're reading the positive signals we're getting today, and we're not going to give up on behalf of all those who experience bullying out in school. We believe in a bully like that. "What happens when human dignity is threatened?" I said in my post. In Sørlanden, we have the Archive Foundation, which has set up this as a matter with which many students meet. They tell about how people in Norway stood up for each other, or did not stand up for each other, during the war. What about those who look and don't act? What about those who feel that others are being hit, but don't say so? There are a lot of good forces that can be involved in the fight against bullying, which can put human dignity back on the agenda, which can say something about the fact that each child's schooling matters to us, and we really want to start everything we can to make it a different result than the child's experience today. Someone's pointed to the countyman. I've said in this room before, and I'm saying it again: I don't think that's the first place you think about turning when you've experienced a mob situation in your own family. I think the county can be a place where you can put the bully physically, but it has to have a word, or a title, that makes people realize that here we can contact ourselves and get help. I'm glad to see the results the Council of State gets in those investigations, that we might get some step closer to getting a function out there that helps the schools to keep up a continuous anti- bullying work, but that can also be a resource for those students and parents who experience that the school doesn't take this seriously. I really hope that you also look at the sanctions possibilities and opportunities to run these cases in court, so that not already delicate and fragile, almost ruined lives are left with the costs when it's society that's failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1758	I just have a full card, little note at the end. One is about bullying programs. We have no plans to cut support for bullying programs, it has to work systematically. There's no requirement that you have a bullying program to work well with it, but we think that the different programs have their function. I'll come back to it. So just a little remark about something that Dagrun Eriksen was about to conclude, and that I don't think she meant, but that I think we should be very careful with. It's talking about those who are being bullied, like that they have drowned. What impresses me very many times is when I meet people who have been subjected to the kind of assault that bullying is, and have come out of it, is that they have an incredible strength in themselves that they probably didn't see when it looked like the blackest, but as many, who haven't been through the same, can envy them. I know that Dagrun Eriksen has not intended to depreciate any people and know that there is a strength in everyone. I just think it's so crucial that we talk about it when we meet people who have been exposed to this, because it helps mobilize them, and the family around them, to get out of a situation. When we describe how serious bullying can be, we should at the same time also show the strength that an incredible number of people who are being assaulted have, and that I am impressed by very many times. I have met many children and young people who have felt weak but who have found a strength that has made them beat most.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1769	Dagrun Eriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1772	I hope the council also heard my post where I just said it wasn't about being a bully, but that a child who has experienced it and got through it, is a bullying survivor, which is a term used in Kristin Oudmayer's book, how many tell about his strong stories. My point of using the comparison is that had there been other things that had happened, maybe political environments had reacted much tougher and much stronger. It was my comparison with drowning. I hope we'll be able to stand here in a few years' time and say that it's not despite what the political environment is doing, but because of what the political environment is doing, that children become bullying survivors in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1779	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2945]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1797	The kindergarten sector has become, in a few years, a major and important sector of the welfare community. About 270,000 children and 85 000 employees have their daily work in the nursery. Today, we have approached full child care coverage, so why is further development of kindergarten still so high on the political agenda? Well, there's a lot of reasons for that. Because even though we have come very far in the kindergarten field in Norway — yes, so far that I am almost willing to make the claim that Norway is sovereign, Norway is in elite division with regard to our kindergartens — we still have some challenges in kindergarten. Many countries come here to copy our kindergarten concept. There is a confirmation of the status of Norwegian kindergartens internationally. Nevertheless, we can get even better, and I feel that many people have a focus on the content of kindergartens. Politicians, both local and national, as well as key social actors in the sector, are concerned with the focus on quality development. In the light of that, I am very happy to have the opportunity to discuss the content of children's kindergarten everyday with the Minister of Knowledge, who is one of the politicians who should have boasted too much of what has happened in the kindergarten field in recent years, a politician who has a great commitment to Norwegian kindergartens. Kindergarten is an important part of child rearing in Norway. Many children spend many hours in kindergarten during a week. For the right, the most important thing in the kindergarten debate is to keep the child in focus. Right wants to preserve and develop the best of our kindergarten tradition, where children are allowed to be children, where childhood has a pronounced self-esteem, and where children meet with respect as whole people. Right wants to take care of the peculiarity of kindergarten by focusing on the fact that childhood and kindergarten are a learning and preparation for what comes later in life. For us in the Right, it is important to stress that children should have children first and foremost when they are in kindergarten – play and learning go hand in hand. The right goal is to have good kindergartens as the ability to see play and learning together with well-being and the creation of children. All children are different, and so we don't think there is any phase in how this is going to happen, and the way that good learning is going to take place in kindergarten. The lack of kindergartens and nursery services shows this in practice. There is a diversity we in the Right are concerned with preserving and facilitating in our further work on kindergarten. All children shall have the possibility of a high-quality childcare facility, regardless of whether they are in a private or municipal nursery. The right is very concerned about the effects of the new regulation, and the figures that are now being reported to us, among other things. by the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, giving cause for concern. But that is what we are going to do in this debate. It is essential to get more knowledge about the quality of kindergartens and how we can improve quality. Recruitment of pre-school teachers, continuing training of staff, more independent research and improvement of the learning environment in kindergartens are actions Right-wing concerns. To put it simply, having cheap kindergartens does not help if the quality of the kindergartens is not the goal. In the further work on quality work in Kindergarten, Stortingen has joined three main objectives: ensure the equivalent and high quality in all kindergartens strengthen the kindergarten as the learning arenas allow all children to participate actively in an inclusive community It was also clear from the examination of the quality quality report in kindergarten that the government would start work on developing a national system to monitor the development of the quality of the sector. This is important. Now it is about a year since we dealt with the quality notice in kindergarten, and it would have been interesting to hear if the Council of State can give some signals about how the government is at the heart of this important work. I think we all agree that the recruitment of pre-school teachers must be job number one. For although quality in kindergarten is defined by many different factors, such as staff, annual plans, follow-up of daily routines, area and much more, the Right believes that the main player, which ensures a good quality day of nursery care, is the employees. Safe, clear and caring adults with whom children can relate are important. I'm around visiting many kindergartens, and it's very nice to see – kindergartens that have swimming pool, sensory room and climbing walls, where children can learn both to research and develop in all conceivable and unimaginable ways. But when it comes to the piece, what are we parents busy about? How do we parents want our kids to have it in kindergarten? Well, we want them to have stable adults around them who can take care of them, who see our kids, who can provide them with security and care. First of all, quality in kindergarten is about ensuring adequate and competent staffing. When the government joined, it laid down the maximum price and full child care coverage. At an earlier stage, it may be appropriate to take initiatives to ensure the proper manning of the sector. It hasn't happened. Strong pressure on development may have had a negative impact on pedagogical staff, which is also reflected in the constant increase in the number of educational and staff exemptions and more children per employee due to an increase in the number of children under three years of age. 2009 figures show that fewer employees and directors have been educated in kindergartens. These are worrying signals. We have to ask ourselves the question of whether the competence strategy used by the government works. An action plan for the recruitment and training of pedagogical personnel in kindergarten is proposed. It could have been interesting in this debate to hear how the government's work on this action plan goes. In the right, we have proposed to strengthen the quality of kindergartens with additional means to create a ‘recruitment strategy’ for preschool teachers in kindergartens and to strengthen the work on continuing education. We have proposed to strengthen research in kindergartens, and we have also proposed to create a project for pre-school teacher education, à la GNIST, which is a project that provides good results in school. We think it's a step in the right direction to raise the quality of kindergarten, and we think it's important now to be concrete on how to raise the quality. The government has also announced the establishment of a national system to monitor the quality of the sector. It must be such that no additional resources are taken from the time of nursery workers with the children for more administrative work related to reporting and evaluation activities that do not have a direct impact on the work done in each nursery. In the past, the Council of State has proposed measures to improve the knowledge base, including: further development of statistics and quality indicators. This is good, this is important. I think a lot of people are wondering when these quality indicators will come. There is a need to increase the skills of child care workers in detecting care failures and dealing with children exposed to them. In order to ensure this competence, there is a need to strengthen cooperation between different local authorities, both in terms of knowledge exchange, consultation and the launch of actions. The government has also said that they should take a closer look at the cooperation between kindergarten and other services. I think it's very important, what's now done to those pre-school teachers who are being trained, in how to deal with such matters when they're confronted with them in kindergarten. The right is engaged in working for the diversity of kindergartens, both private and public, large and small, with different organisation and methodology. Today kindergartens are very free to choose how they will organise their everyday life and their educational arrangements. This means that we have received many different kindergartens, which offer a variety of offers to children, which both children and parents appreciate. In the right, we are very concerned that that diversity should also characterize Norwegian kindergartens in the future. We hope the government will help and facilitate it, and I am very excited to hear what signals and ambitions the Council of State has for the further work on quality raising in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1849	I'm very happy to have the opportunity that the interpellant now gives me to go a little bit through how we work on the quality of kindergartens. I fully agree with her in principle: the child hail lift that we have carried out has aroused international attention. We've been getting full babysitting in a very short time. It's a completely different reality now than it was just a few years ago. We've done it without reducing the quality requirements, and we've done it by keeping a third of the pedagogues in kindergartens. I had feared that there was a number that was going to go down. But I believe it is essential that we now both ensure that we recruit more pre-school teachers and employees with a degree in kindergarten and invest in the assistants, and have an ambition that we should have the quality up. Good quality kindergartens are extremely profitable and an important investment in society because they ensure the best possible start to life for children. When we're there that so to say all children go to kindergarten before they start school, it gives us some great opportunities to give children a good start on lifelong learning. I was in a kindergarten in the morning today – a very creative, good and capable driven kindergarten. There were both shops, art studios and activities at a very high level. That's just saying that we have to think big about the little ones all the way. We know that things you experience in the first few years of life, you can go with it for the rest of your life. That's why we have so much left to think about the small ones. Now the municipalities have received what they wanted. They have been given the overall responsibility for the kindergarten sector. They have long wanted the earmarked funds for the kindergartens to be integrated into the free resources, and so it has been. At the same time, however, it means that municipalities have a great responsibility to follow-up on maintaining the quality and attention of kindergartens. They actually have the opportunity now to go beyond what you get through earmarked allocations, namely to see the kindergarten offer as a more integrated part of the overall offer to children in their municipality, in cooperation with the child protection for particularly vulnerable children, in cooperation with the school as regards the possibilities of all children, even though I fully agree with Linda Hofstad Helleland that kindergarten should not be a school. The kindergarten shall be a playground for play and learning based on the fact that childhood has a value in itself, not just preparing for later stages. Now that we've transferred over 28 billion. I expect the municipalities to follow both the rules and guidelines we have given on how to continue to grant private kindergartens their grants, and that they are also committed to maintaining quality and staffing in the kindergartens. We are following very closely the developments that are now taking place. The law and framework plan for kindergartens indicate key quality requirements. If children are to meet high and equivalent quality kindergartens, the nursery owners must comply with the legislation and the municipalities that local kindergarten authorities must ensure compliance with the legislation through good supervision. We have reduced a sample, as Sylvia Brustad leads, to see if the central framework is good enough in managing the nursery sector. It's a sample to deliver its setting to us for the autumn. What we have also done is to inform them that they should clarify the educational norm of the supervisor who is now coming, as many municipalities – and private kindergartens to this extent – have practiced too casually in relation to what we believe to be the requirements. The government has provided full coverage, but we must also at the same time ensure that all municipalities comply with the obligation they now have to provide nursery facilities for everyone. We have an ambition to bring down the waiting time. Today, the right is linked to being born before 1 September. Of course, we want to have a high focus on the fact that that right can be exercised in the past for all children, but it's a budgetary question. In the Annual Report on Quality in Kindergarten, which was discussed in spring 2010, we paid particular attention to increasing the skills of employees both in terms of more educators and among other staff, to develop a national system to monitor the development of quality in the kindergarten sector and to establish a web portal on and for kindergartens, and to focus on more research in kindergartens. Research-based knowledge is a prerequisite for quality and quality development in the kindergarten sector. Since 2005, there has been a significant increase in research efforts in the field of kindergartens, including: through programme funding through the Norwegian Research Council. The research programme PRAKSISFOU 2006–2010 provided funding for research not only on kindergartens but also in and for kindergartens for the first time. These research projects now provide knowledge for the development of both policies, practices and pre-school teacher training. In view of the size and importance of the sector for children, parents and society, the nursery sector remains an under-exploratory area. Our own report on quality in kindergarten and the public investigations from among others. The Brenna and Østberg committees are in agreement with the need for more and relevant research. We're doing something about this right now. Two major educational research programmes, the PRAKUT new practical research programme for 2010-2014 and the Education Research Programme Education2020, mean that 140 million will be released this year. kr to various research projects such as research on kindergartens such as learning, care, and the rearing of young children. Research takes time. We are now investing in the knowledge base we need for the future kindergarten, and we want to strengthen kindergarten as a multidisciplinary field of research. We're engaged in kindergarten as the arena of early action and social cohesion, and we're engaged in kindergarten as the learning and building arena. We already know a lot about the need for closeness and care of young children and the need for good associates. What we need is more research and knowledge on how to organise kindergartens for the smallest, and as the above-mentioned public committees point out, we need to develop the knowledge base for the importance of kindergarten for children. Through support for various studies, such as the mother and child study in the direction of the National Institute for Public Health, we will gain further knowledge of the importance of kindergarten for language development and social competence. Various studies we have ordered provide us with important knowledge of the organization and quality of kindergartens. Much important knowledge development is also taking place through ongoing R & D work at universities and colleges. Through support for national research schools, we contribute to building research capacities and quality in education research. We are concerned that the practice of kindergartens should be based on up-to-date knowledge of children and childhood. We have therefore established a national knowledge centre for educational research, which will contribute to the overview and dissemination of knowledge to, among others. kindergarten. I am very proud of the Norwegian kindergarten tradition. Although we want to further develop kindergartens and exploit even better the great potential for learning in kindergartens, we need to take on the good quality and the good approach that we already have to offer to kindergartens. It is based on an overall pedagogical approach to care and learning and respect for the self-esteem of childhood. We are now making provision for measures of competence and development so that these changes are reflected in the practice of kindergartens. They shall follow the intentions of the purpose and framework for kindergarten. When it's followed up, we get kindergartens of good quality. Several studies have provided heavy input on the impact of bets on kindergartens and kindergartens following the treatment of the quality notification in kindergartens. It's about the Brenna selection, concerning the Eastberg selection, about the Midlyng selection, about the Distribution Committee. All these investigations are now being followed up. The crash message of the Midlyng Selection configuration will not be delivered for that long. We're going to carry out a major revision of the kindergarten framework. Both the Brenna Committee and the Østberg Committee have made many different proposals for developing the quality of kindergartens. The last thing we have to focus on then is the competence of those who work in kindergartens: the competence of pre-school teachers and a good pre-school teacher training and the competence of the assistants and good opportunities for them to develop in their jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1893	I would like to thank the Council of State for very good answers. I agree with a lot of what the Council of State says, and not least what the Council of State finally pointed out, that the most important thing is the competence of pre-school teachers and the competence of assistants. It is important to get more pre-school teachers. And then we must not forget all the amazing people who are currently working in kindergartens, but who are not preschool teachers. They also do an incredibly good job, and it is also important to focus on staying in kindergartens. What I want to get a little bit more into is the signals that come from the Brenna committee, the NOU called with research and playfulness. It had the mandate to consider the introduction of a pedagogical offer to pre-school children. The committee raises many interesting issues: Should kindergarten become mandatory? Are we going to have a fixed goal for what children in kindergarten are going to learn? Now it's like more government parties have said that they're looking at a mandatory nursery in the long run just the quality is good enough. I want to hear what assessments the Minister of Knowledge is making around the signals that are coming, and how the government basically puts itself on a mandatory kindergarten. The right considers that a compulsory nursery is a strong intervention in parental law. It is important that the family itself be allowed to govern whether they want to make use of a nursery, the age at which they want to avail themselves of the offer, the number of days per week and the possibility of taking the children home one day. Freedom of choice and flexibility are very important for the Right in kindergarten policy. It's still going to be. I see, among other things, that the National Parental Committee for kindergartens and the Educational Association strongly warns against a mandatory nursery. Kinderhagen is not a mini-school. Although we're concerned with what children learn in kindergarten, because it's important for them to go on in life, we're skeptical of a compulsory kindergarten and what it brings with it in terms of co-determination. It also reduces the diversity and freedom of the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1904	The Brenna Committee did not recommend the introduction of a mandatory nursery now. They thought that kindergarten provision should remain voluntary, but they suggested introducing a 20-hour free kindergarten for children between 3 and 5 years of age. The latter is a cost issue that the government has not discussed and to which no commitment has been made in the government platform. There is nothing in the government platform for the current ageing period where the government suggests that we agree to introduce a mandatory kindergarten. I believe that the crucial thing now in the next few years is to make sure that we focus on developing good quality children's gardens. There's also something that the Brenna committee is in on. They believe that the discussion about compulsory kindergartens should be taken at the time when you see that you have good coverage of competent people, because it is a little different to offering an offer than introducing something that is mandatory. Although we are demanding high standards for kindergartens today, I see that the quality debate is related to the question of compulsory kindergarten. But it is also true that the vast majority of children today go to kindergarten before they begin school. Among children with a minority background, 95 pst goes. of the children in kindergarten before they begin school. So there are some marginal groups of children you'd like to now if you introduce a mandatory kindergarten. Now it may be that there are just children who would have a very good benefit from a kindergarten offer, and that it is important to get hold of. My approach to this is that the first step now is to make sure to consolidate the kindergartens at the level of full coverage, make sure that we now keep efforts over time in relation to developing quality, follow up on whether we have good enough opportunities to control quality. There will be a theme when the Brustad selection comes with its setting. So I believe that the further debate can then be about giving more reasonable offers to families with children. Remember: The kindergarten reform has led to a 50 pst reduction in the price of private kindergartens. and the locals with 40 pst. Still, kindergarten is quite expensive for a number of families. I think it is interesting in the long term to discuss mandatory kindergarten or even more reasonable kindergarten. Here are the different approaches among the parties on Stortinget, because I see that someone wants to raise the maximum price.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1915	Every morning, 277,000 children go to the kindergarten, open grin with their mom or dad and are excited about what the day can bring. As a parent myself, I have to say that delivering children in kindergarten is an incredibly great joy every day, for you see how the children light up when they see each other, and how well your own child has it in kindergarten. But at the same time it's a constant germ of concern, because you want to contribute as much as you can as a parent, but also because you want the kindergarten to be the best possible to capture both your and others' children. This I think all parents constantly think through: how can kindergarten get better? How can we do better than parents? And here we have a good interaction between kindergarten and parents every day. It is an important and good interpellation that Linda Hofstad Helleland travels. I'm glad that the Right in that way, perhaps for the first time really, is very clear that the kindergarten is not only a storage place, but that it is also a very important arena for lifelong learning and social cohesion, and that the quality of Norwegian kindergartens is very important. I'm very happy about that. There are many reasons why systematic efforts have been made to get full babysitting and to get more children to go to kindergarten. We have seen that the most successful countries in their family policy, which have ensured that women have been out of work to a large extent, are the countries that have been most affected by the financial crisis. Norway, Sweden and Iceland — these countries — have a huge engine through having the entire population out of work instead of only half, whereas countries such as Italy, Spain and Greece, where women are largely at home, have a completely different prerequisite for meeting the challenges they face. In addition, full babysitting and a good babysitting offer provide a greater choice for parents. It provides work, it provides safety for the children, and it provides a good educational offer. We see that the parents are very pleased with the offer they get in kindergarten, and not least it is important for the individual child. Each child has the opportunity to be seen and followed up if it needs extra help. It gives children a good start to life. The distribution committee was also clear on the role of kindergarten in this perspective, because they say about pre-school children: ‘The measures lead to better performance of children at school and the completion of higher education, higher education and success in the labour market.’ In short, they sum up their report with: ‘The fight against social inequality begins in kindergarten.’ So to the things that have to be worked on in the future. I think the big difference goes between those who have room, and those who are now outside, but who should have room. We know that full child care coverage and lower prices help many, and we see a large increase in the last year, especially in the group that is in cash support age. This means that when parents have real freedom of choice, they choose kindergartens in front of cash support. But at the same time, we see that there are many barriers. Still, the price is a barrier for someone, the cash support is an obvious barrier, and attitudes can also be a barrier. It is important that we also look at how we can help those who may need it the most. This is why language skills and motor skills are important to be surveyed through, for example: The four-year check, to see how we can help those who need extra follow-up. Then I think kindergarten offers are very important. Through the work on the child care quality report, we have pointed out that employees may be the most important resource. There is a need to work with more educators and to increase the skills of assistants. Perhaps we should also consider smaller groups of children and get more groups of professionals into kindergarten. It is also important to give employees time and space for conversation and quality work in kindergarten. It is important to work with better contact between kindergarten and home. Here we have been working on getting more parental interviews and creating a parental selection. I believe that this is very important for parents, and it is particularly important for those children who have additional needs that the measures in kindergarten are followed up with measures at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1938	I would like first of all to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic. It's a good follow-up to the debate we had on St.meld. No 41 for 2008-2009 Kindergarten quality. The progress party was a big supporter in the kindergarten agreement and is very happy that it came into place. Nevertheless, it is important for the Advancement Party that parents have the freedom of choice as to which childcare they want for their children, and that it should not become a compulsory nursery, but that the parents themselves, according to their situation in life, determine which childcare they want for their children. But then we see that more and more people now choose kindergarten for their children. It's very good in some cases, because we have another issue that we're discussing, which concerns equality, where we want women to be more involved in the work world. As the previous speaker said, you deliver your child to the nursery and know that your child should be in that nursery for many hours. More and more children have their daily life in kindergarten. Then we'll discuss whether or not we have full babysitting. It's a little bit like that in relation to how you see it. I will claim that we do not have full child care coverage today, as long as it depends on when the child is born. Therefore, the Progress Party wants a rolling recording in the kindergartens and hopes that we can put it in place later. A lot has been done about kindergartens lately. But I have to say that I am a little startled by the situation that the kindergartens are in in today's municipalities. We can read almost every week in the newspapers about the situation that the opposition warned against during the budgetary procedure last year, as the money is now included in the framework of the municipalities. The council promised before Christmas that she would follow closely what was happening in the municipalities. I hope she keeps doing that, because as it looks now, we can get a breakdown of the private offer in the municipalities. We don't want to. Then we also have a challenge that the nursery arrangement is not yet met, and that one only has 88 pst. equality between private and municipal kindergartens. It's disappointing that we can't put in place the full equality of kindergartens. I think that a lot of the problems we see in the municipalities today could have been avoided if we had 100 pst. financing. The interpellation theme is the quality of kindergartens. What is quality? Is quality that we need a standard of education? Is it going to be part of the education cycle? Or is the quality of kindergarten very different from that of children to children – that children are well-being and well-being, have good adulthood, and that parents know that children have a daily life that they enjoy? So quality can be a lot of things. It was also mentioned in St.meld. No 41. But quality is also content. Therefore, we need to focus on flexibility and diversity where parents themselves can be allowed to choose which kindergarten they want to send their kids to, based on the content of kindergarten. Therefore, the Progress Party wants there to be a diversity of kindergartens. Then we also see that today we have almost 4,000 dispensations, and that there are very many missing – up to 4000 – pre-school teachers. I think we have a big challenge in raising the status of pre-school teacher education and getting more people to apply for pre-school teacher education. We need to get increased status here. It is also important that employees, who are often unskilled, as well as assistants, who do important work – the employees of kindergartens are those who are in contact with the young and have the most important task – are given a quality boost, that they may be able to receive further training or to increase their skills, so that they do not stand still either. It is important that we focus on this, and also focus on the development work, so that it benefits everyone. But I think what's important in the future is to focus on the content of kindergarten and that it's a diversity, and that very many of the hearing opinions that have come from those who have been working are included in the further work. Finally, there are going to be a lot of debates on this in the future, but I think we have to focus on the situation we have in the municipalities today, and take care of the private kindergartens, which make up half of the kindergartens that we have out there. We can't have a rage. I hope that the Council of State can assure us that she will take care of the private kindergartens also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1968	We've spent many years, in fact several decades, expanding the kindergarten sector to have a situation where we're approaching full coverage today. Approaching a full coverage situation opens up even more focus on quality in the years ahead. We've got the Brenna committee report. Now, the Brenna committee did not give the answer that SV might have wanted in the case of compulsory kindergarten, but they gave many sensible assessments of the quality of the nursery sector. The sample clearly indicates that after a period of major expansion, major changes in the kindergarten sector and transition to the 2011 framework funding, the quality of kindergartens is concerned. There is also an expression of concern about the skills situation of child care workers. It is also interesting that the sample considered that a one-sided emphasis on performance and isolated learning of school skills should be avoided. It is clarified that young people, such as want to learn to read and write early, not to be hindered in their development, but not to be expected to have all five-year-olds learnt to read before they begin school. The committee believes that the emphasis should be on the development of social competences, languages and other communications. I also see it as a corrective to SV, as recently, not least through the quality report, has emerged as a driving force behind a development in which kindergarten everyday life would go more towards school, with more written assessment and monitoring. The committee was also concerned about the competence situation of child care workers. It is important to focus even more on and even more on continuing education for pre-school teachers. That is why the Christian People's Party has invested in it in its alternative state budget. Two and a half months ago, the kindergarten sector was included in the framework funding for municipalities. The Christian People's Party warned against the consequences it would have for the quality of kindergartens. The kindergarten sector is still a developing sector, where we are reaching the goal of full coverage. That is why we thought it was too early to include kindergartens in the municipal framework. You do not move into a house until you know whether the concrete in the ground wall has dried or whether the stalls are right. We were reasonably sure in our analyses, but I probably didn't think that development would go so fast until we got so many clear messages from the sector about which way it goes. In these days we are still receiving new messages about cutting in kindergartens around the country. We receive messages from kindergartens, municipalities and parents, who fear that the quality of kindergartens is getting worse. We've dealt with a big message about the quality of kindergartens. We have a debate on how we can strengthen the quality of kindergartens in the future. The quality of kindergartens does not increase today. Kindergarten quality goes down. The question is how an SV State Council can be comfortable with such a situation. What is the strategy of the Council of State to reverse that trend? There are many elements that have emerged in the debate that need to be assessed and worked on in the future to enhance the quality of kindergartens. One of them is to look at the kids' rights in kindergartens. In recent times, we have had a considerable debate on the so-called Adecco case, as in particular. is about adults, independent people who can speak their own language, not being allowed to work for as long as they want because of the work environment law. There's a lot of sense in that, because you're going to avoid getting into a situation of pressure. Then it's a paradox that we don't have the same rights for kids when it comes to babysitting. It's one of the elements you have to work on to further develop the quality of kindergarten. But as of today, the quality goes down, and the government has to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e1989	I thought, when I first heard the interpellant and saw the Council of State in its most beautiful agreement, that it was a little difficult to find some political dividing lines, but then the Christian People's Party helped to whip up the mood with that very thing. First, I want to commend the interpellant for putting an important interpellant, if what I think is a concern of all political parties right now, namely the quality of this sector. In the alternative budget of the Left, we have invested in quality construction within the kindergarten. We are seriously concerned, because we have built up massively, and we have difficulty accessing professionals. This must be the political focus on the kindergarten sector in the future, in our opinion. There were people who said that if the only tool you have is a hammer, then all the questions show up like nails. I feel that we in the Left have got a little into that trap, but I still believe that if you take all the major challenges that our welfare state is facing, especially in the public sector, almost everything can be solved with increased competence, increased knowledge and more professionals. I think we're going to turn the whole angle – from the fight to get more hands to the fight to get more heads into the public sector and into many of the offers we're making. Getting more professionals into kindergarten, maybe even with a little more different skills, I think is the key to getting this done. So there's one thing that I've been thinking a lot about after working on this field for a long time, and that's that there's so few concerns about child protection, and there's so few other kinds of concerns from the kindergarten sector. It's not just because we lack competence in the sector. No, I think it has to do with the whole setting of the nursery, because in kindergarten, the child is not necessarily the customer. It's the parents who are the customer. It's the parents you have to do a job for. It's the parents who kind of order what they want. And because parents can easily just change kindergarten – at least as it is now – the struggle to hold on to parents becomes more important than to say whether or not to see that some children suffer from congestion. I have talked to many kindergarten employees about this, who may have worked in kindergarten for 20-30 years, and who have had a bad conscience. For statistical purposes, in relation to how many children they have been responsible for, they should have seen a lot more than those they feel they have seen, and they have a bad conscience for it. Many of them say that they perceive it as the parents you do the job for, and that you don't have that much focus on the child. It'll be completely different when you get into a school situation. There you have a class in front of you with students, and it's the students who are kind of the ones who are going to have the product, or who are going to have what you produce for them. I think there's a little alarm clock in the way we organize our kindergartens, that maybe we should have a much bigger focus on the different kids coming in the door, which should be the main focus, not what you're going to deliver back. Focusing on the individual child is a challenge for the whole kindergarten sector. Then I agree with both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party when they say that kindergarten should not be a preschool. I said earlier today that I was in Canada last week talking about equality. Then I started to refer to our kindergarten as the ‘Kindergarten’. It's going to be completely wrong, so I had to start using different words, because people were completely shocked that we have 1-year-olds in school. We're not supposed to have that. We're going to have good care, we're going to have good, safe playgrounds for children where children can develop, but we're also going to have a place where children with special challenges can be discovered so early that they can get help before it becomes a problem, and kindergartens are the key to getting it. Then we need good professionals who see this, but I also think we need a mentality transformation in kindergarten that's about the focus of children. And it's actually more important to be able to be unfamiliar with some parents when they're going to pick up, because you're going to take care of that child's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2010	First, I want to give praise to the interpellant to travel a very important debate on the quality of kindergartens. I think that the children's garden debate in this room has far too much in the past been about whether it is good for the children to go to kindergarten or not, and now I really think the focus is on what is the essential. The point is, we've gone from the 1970s, where there were only seven psts. Of the children who went to kindergarten, to today, where 96 pst. by all those who begin school have been in kindergarten. That's because in a few years we've been able to get full babysitting. And it's not like some people have tried to claim that with full child-care coverage, it's something that's become political – that's it! But what is not political is that it is the parents who have decided that they want their children in kindergarten and that they choose kindergarten rather than all other care options. When we sat and discussed the kindergarten agreement in the early 2000s, in 2003, we also had some figures for how many children you thought would go to kindergarten, to see what was full kindergarten coverage. The result is that many more parents want their children to go to kindergarten than was foreseen in 2003. It tells you a little bit about how good the kindergarten is, and what a reputation the kindergarten has for young children's parents. I want to say that even over and over, the Kindergarten offers a good deal, but what the big message about quality in kindergarten also documented is that there are very big differences, and that there are no measuring instruments to measure the quality of kindergartens in a good way. And that work has now been started by the government through this big message. Then I want to make a happy announcement to the representative, Håbreek, who claims that the quality of kindergartens has fallen so dramatically in recent years. Fortunately, that is not the case. A survey carried out by the Ministry in 2009, in which 30 quality measurements were carried out, asking municipalities, parents, kindergarten employees and more, showed that the 30 quality criteria scored higher in 2008 than they did in 2004. We should be happy about that, because it shows that in a period of massive expansion of kindergartens, we have succeeded in keeping up the quality and level of kindergartens, yes, we have even managed to raise the quality very little. Then it's a concern we all share. This concerns the level of staffing in kindergartens. Even there, the government has made a great effort. More than 1 000 new pre-school learning places have been created in addition to job-based pre-school teacher training and further training for kindergarten employees. So now it's being educated as never before, and in 2012, you'll expect to be up to the norm you've been sitting on. Then the job starts to increase the quality further. So a little bit to the two samples that have looked at the kindergarten in the last two years. This is particularly true for the Brenna and Distribution Committee. What's been common to both of these samples is that they've pointed out the importance of kindergarten for all children, and the self-esteem of kindergarten. What has been the concern of both samples is the small minority of children who do not go to kindergarten, mainly minority children. They have pointed out and suggested that you have to have an offer for all children, but they have suggested that it be a free offer, not a mandatory offer. The question of compulsory kindergarten is also addressed here. It is a fact that we do not even have compulsory schooling in Norway — we have training obligations — so that having a compulsory kindergarten will be out of date. In addition, the Workers' Party believes that kindergarten should be a voluntary offer. Parents should be able to take the child out of the nursery and do other things if they want to, but the offer should be there. As both the representative of Hofstad Helleland and the Council of State point out, I also think that we should respect the Norwegian kindergarten tradition in a good way. We don't want the kindergarten to be a mini-school. We do not want the kindergarten to be like the French kindergarten, where you measure the development of the children with characters – with red, blue, yellow and green. We want the nursery to be a positive experience for the children, from which the day they begin school has good memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2030	I would like to thank the representatives who have spoken, for very many good contributions – and not least the Council of State for her good contributions. I think it's very nice that we are now debating the content of kindergarten, and that as big-time politicians, we have some ambitions about the content of kindergarten and the way we want quality to be raised. Now there's a lot of samples, and there's things going on outside of this hall. But in fact, I think it is an independent point that we, as big-scale politicians responsible also for the kindergarten area, believe something about how we want Norwegian kindergartens to develop further in order to become even better, and that we are talking about children's day-to-day kindergartens. When we debated the issue of quality in kindergarten one year ago, I think that most people out there – grandchildren’ parents and employees in kindergarten, i.e. those who are concerned with kindergarten – perceived one thing from that message, and that was mapping, which was just a very, very small part of the whole message. It's very bad, because it stood very well there. There was also a very good treatment of the matter in Stortinget. When I sat down last night and applied to the Storing Archive for interpellations about the content and quality of the kindergarten, I had to go quite many years back – yes, almost until my husband was in that committee, and that's a few years ago. Then the debate about something completely different – if at all we were to... I'm not going to go into it, but we've moved a long way further. The right is very concerned about how to raise the quality. I believe that we here in the Chamber are also concerned about and agree that it is the employees who are the most important key and the factor in getting better babysitting everyday life for our children, and not least – since there are so many Norwegian children going to kindergarten – that you also have the opportunity to help the children who are experiencing care failure, who have it very difficult. Finally, I would like to say from this pulpit that the Right has a strong desire to contribute to the further quality debate on how kindergartens should be even better. But we are also very concerned that there should not be too much central control in relation to kindergartens. We think it's important that each nursery itself is involved in determining, along with the parents of the children who go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2046	It is a great strength that there is such broad political consensus that it is important that we have full child care coverage and good quality in kindergartens. This debate has shown that it is. My goal is also that we can achieve through further systematic work, in particular by investing in employees and future employees in kindergartens, so that we can further strengthen the quality. Then we've really taken advantage of the tremendous capacity we now have by the fact that most children go to kindergarten before they start school and are thus in a context, where we can make sure that they grow and thrive and get used to their talents and caught up if they have any problems, which are small when they are small, and which can grow up when they grow up, but which can also find another way by observant adults. I also hope that we will be able to land the work we are now doing with regard to screening tools in the kindergartens – which are anchored in an expert group to make recommendations on how to do it concretely, and with a reference group of people who are going to play ball with them in practice – unless political conflict in the future, because I think it is important here to train the kindergartens for observing children’s development in such a way that action can be taken quickly to stimulate the development of all children. Then it is not right that the quality of kindergartens is too – fast – descending. The quality of kindergartens has been too high, even though it has been a crazy expansion. Remember, almost a whole year old child now has a place in the kindergartens, in addition to those we had before, over a six-year period. It's amazing that we've managed to keep quality and even strengthen it a little bit through this. But there is no need to relax! In particular, we need to be observant when implementing the largest implementation of an earmarked grant into the framework. It's me, it's the kindergartens, and it's the private kindergartens. Now I also have to draw attention to the fact that this is a prerequisite which has been there all the way in connection with the kindergarten reform, and as the government of Bondevik informed the Stortinget that they would implement from 2004. So the only difference the red-greens have made is to postpone the inclusion of the earmarked funds by four years, and I think that has been reasonable four years of postponement. I am pleased to cooperate with Stortinget further on the quality of kindergartens and promise that the tired will be high.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2057	So the debate is on case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2071	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2078	Norwegian business is dominated by small businesses. A large proportion of these are family businesses. This structure suggests that there must be a major focus on the fact that we have a regulatory framework adapted to these small businesses. Policies that facilitate the establishment and operation of an establishment will result in increased employment, growth and ability to value the country and thus contribute to ensuring public and private well-being. The proposers justify the proposal with a desire to make the form of a limited liability company more accessible to traders, as the current capital requirements for the start-up of a public limited liability company are perceived as an obstacle. The requirement today is a share capital of at least DKK 100000. The Ministry of Justice’s letter of reply refers to the fact that investigations are currently being carried out with a view to simplifying the share law. Reduced capital requirements are among the themes addressed. The Council of State therefore refers to the examination of this investigation after it has been consulted. In the proceedings of the Judicial Committee, the parties to the Government also refer to this investigation and the ongoing work on it. You propose that the draft representative be annexed to the Minutes. The Progress Party and the Right propose that the Share Company Act be amended by reducing the minimum share capital to NOK 25 000. For the Right, this is an expression that we want simplified rules for business and lower thresholds to establish our own business. A study presented by the NHO shows that almost half of Norwegian limited liability companies are registered with NOK 100000 in share capital and that the same applies to 70 pst. by newly established limited liability companies in 2010. Thus, a large number of limited liability companies have invested at a level with the lowest possible share capital. In addition, a reduction in the capital requirement can be expected to offset the differences to, and reduce, the number of Norwegian registered Foreign Enterprises, so-called NUFs. The requirement for a certain sized share capital is historically based on, inter alia, the need for: to protect creditors. Today, however, it is pointed out that the creditor’s protection is, instead, linked to much more stringent requirements for correct information. For many potential entrepreneurs, the requirement for a share capital of at least DKK 100 000 is a major obstacle. Modern communication and information registers enable creditors to secure themselves in ways other than by looking only at the share capital. This is a view supported by several sources, including: by the NHO. In Sweden, the minimum share capital for private limited liability companies was reduced to SEK 50000 from 1 April 2010. Together with new rules for voluntary audits, it is pointed out that this is one of the main reasons for the strong increase in the number of newly established companies in Sweden. This is a development Right-wing want to facilitate also here in Norway. That is why we are promoting the Committee's minority proposals from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2099	The representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2102	In June 2010, the Ministry of Justice commissioned Mr. Gudmund Knudsen to settle questions about simplification of the share law. The mandate dealt with rules on the formation of limited liability companies, capital rules and rules relating to organisational issues. Later, representatives from the Progress Party have put forward a proposal for a representative to reduce capital requirements for limited liability companies. Advocate Knudsen presented his Opinion on the proposal to amend the Share Law on 7 January 2011, and the matter is now pending. The Judicial Committee's position shows that there is now a broad cross-political consensus on the issue of share capital requirements in the Share Act. I would like to remind you that Soria Moria II also stressed the need to put in place simpler rules for business. Lawyer Knudsen has made suggestions to lower the minimum share capital of a share company from today’s NOK 100000 to NOK 30000. In other words, it should be cheaper to set up a limited liability company, he thinks. The proposal by Mr Knudsen, and this proposal for a representative that we are discussing today, have been seen as an important input into the government's simplification debate. The proposals are also important in order to harmonise our requirements with our neighbouring countries. Furthermore, as many claim, it can be a good measure to curb NUF, i.e. Norwegian-registered Foreign Enterprises. Other elements that are important to discuss are whether any reduced minimum share capital will have some meaning for more start-ups, whether it would weaken the protection of creditors, or whether a change could help to increase the risk of loss or fraud — in other words, financial crime. So there are several elements that need to be carefully assessed before reducing any capital requirement. Some also call for a full removal of the requirement of share capital. I don't think that makes sense. I'm probably afraid that such a grip would open up to several unprofessional actors, and that little thoughtful establishment would then become a reality. I clearly see many great and good advantages in reducing the requirement for share capital in the stock laws. Creating a limited liability company will be cheaper. One gets a harmonisation with our neighboring country. It will deflect against the NUF, and it will have meaning for new start-ups. The government will soon decide on this issue and other elements of the stock laws, as advocate Knudsen has suggested. I would of course be waiting for the hearing results, and I believe that it is urgent to get a clarification. Although minimum share capital requirements should be seen in conjunction with other elements of the share law, I nevertheless believe that it should be assessed whether the share capital requirement can be assessed separately and brought forward quickly before the Storting – this in order to make the form of a share company even more popular, so that one might also be able to cope with NUF establishment. And so we're going to have a little bit more time to wind up these establishments. I look forward to a hearing response and, in the light of what I have just said, I would like to recommend the Committee's plural position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2130	The scheduled time for this morning’s meeting is now over. The vote will now be adjourned, and the sitting will be resumed at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16:00. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2142	The decision continues to deal with case No. 9 on Agenda No Sixty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2145	I can mainly subscribe to the comments made by the case rapporteur, Mr Werp, in his statement. But let me add, for the Progress Party, that we have promoted this proposal because we believe that Norway should have an effective and rational industrial policy. That's why it's sad that the majority again does not seem to want to be involved in a very concrete proposal presented in the Stortinget, which will help to strengthen the Norwegian share company model, the Norwegian AS, and instead continues with the weakening of the AS-institution that we've been looking forward to. It is true that for an economy that will grow and for a country that will have an offensive business life, it is a matter of having an industrial policy and framework conditions that are in time. In this area, we have seen that the Norwegian share company model is not attractive to those who are going to start small and medium-sized enterprises. They have now largely chosen to use the foreign NUF model, i.e. Norwegian registered non-residents, and many have used Ltd. organisation in the UK. It is clear that it agrees to give clear signals from the traders that this model in Norway is not attractive. It also helps the Norwegian authorities get on their backs to control these companies and to provide framework conditions for these companies to grow in Norway. I record in this debate that the representative Oppebøen Hansen, who has been spokesperson for the government parties, says that this is something that the government parties will consider in the light of the consultation process that is now underway on the basis of the position of the Knudsen Committee. But it is clear that once you have received such clear feedback that this is a sensible proposal and a right way to go, both through the position of the Knudsen Committee and through the consultation of the Legal Affairs Committee on this proposal, it is disappointing that you cannot respond quickly and contribute to the adoption of this proposal – whether 25 000 or 30 000 kroner in share capital is not so important – so that the traders can have it as quickly as possible. But we'll see again here that the government parties come after the opposition after a while. We saw in the case of the retention obligation that after a long time the opposition was able to make an important change in the rules, by the government coming back with a proposal that the opposition had made. I am therefore looking forward to the statements of the Council of State, because I hope that there will be more clear signals when the government sees it coming to Stortinget with a proposal. And it should be in my opinion before Stortinget takes a summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2158	The conditions for engaging in business are essential to ensure our welfare society for the future. We need to facilitate the use of resources across the country. Therefore, it is important to consider what changes we can make to the legislation and the business environment. The aim must be to make it easier to start and run an enterprise, while at the same time taking care of the need to check that things are going right and to ensure that the most serious operators are possible. When this is the case, in concrete terms, to lower the capital requirement of a limited liability company, it is argued in favour of and against this. I have noticed from the N.H.O. that this requirement should be lowered and their views on this, and I think these seem to be relevant. At the same time, it's about finding a golden middle way in this case as well. Removing the capital requirement altogether would, in my opinion, not make sense, rather to set it too low. The financial liability of the owners of AS is limited to the share capital, and it is not unreasonable that requirements are set at a minimum of capital input. By now there is an out-of-hearing announcement. There are various suggestions on how to simplify the stock laws. The majority in the Committee would like to await a hearing response before concluding on the possible reduction of the requirement to share capital. Finally, I would like to point out that the government has already taken several steps to make business start-ups and business operations easier and cheaper. Among other things, the statutory obligations for small limited liability companies are removed, which has been positive from the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2173	A simpler Norway, is a famous Center and Christian People's Party slogan, and there is something Christian People's Party is concerned about. We're concerned with simplifying and making it easier to lower the threshold in order to start and establish businesses. As we know, Norway is a country characterised by many small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why it's important to be able to make it easy for those who want to start their own little business. When we're discussing the share capital of AS today, it's important to think about what is the alternative to starting an AS. When one knows that there is an increasing number of people who choose to register enterprises abroad, the proposal currently under consideration may be one of the proposals that help to ensure that the so-called NUFs are reduced and may receive more AS. And one also sees, as the Right and Advance Party have pointed out in the comments, that a lower requirement for equity capital in Sweden has contributed to the fact that there have been many more new start-ups of companies. It is an effect that one knows will also come in Norway. That is why the Christian People's Party is in favour of the proposal that exists, but at the same time we also want to refer to the hearing that is currently taking place. When an investigation was commissioned not long ago, and the setting from the selection to the lawyer Knudsen came, the Christian People's Party believes it is right to await the answers to the hearing. I noticed that the representative from the Workers' Party said that he wanted to advance the matter quickly for Stortinget, and I am glad that he says, because the Christian People's Party is impatient when we look at the setting on which the selection landed, and when we have also looked at various signals that have arrived. However, we believe it is right to await the hearing and take it in that order, but expect the matter to return quickly to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2183	For the left, it is important to make it simpler, cheaper and to stimulate in every way to start own businesses. On a number of rankings, we see that this government has made things worse, yes, most recently in the World Bank's own ranking. Among other things, we have proposed to bring down the share capital, remove the audit obligation, eliminate reporting, reduce VAT payments, allow start-up of AS within agriculture and simplify the registration of documents and reduce costs related to company registration. Today, we're discussing paragraph 1 to bring down the share capital, and paragraph 2, removing the audit obligation, the government has actually followed up. Today, the government parties refer to some selection that has suggested that the share capital should be reduced to NOK 30000. I sincerely hope that the government will reach the same conclusion, but it may take time. The government agreed to remove the audit obligation for the smallest companies, but they voted against our proposals for a long time. Yes, it actually took 905 days for a sample to propose to remove the audit obligation until the government proposed to remove the audit obligation. So now we're excited about how many hundred days it takes from the sample they're now referring to, who wants to lower the capital requirement, has submitted their cancellation, to maybe the government ends up at the same time. The last time we proposed what we are dealing with was 29 March 2006. Then the government parties wrote in their note: ‘The majority see that some companies may have difficulty obtaining a share capital of NOK 100000.’ So the government parties wrote about our proposal of 29 March 2006. We're waiting for them to maybe now move at this point as well. But many countries have moved very clearly at this point, and many have even removed the requirement of share capital. On this basis, the President will probably understand that we support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2199	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is a broad consensus to consider the requirement for share capital in the Share Act. Before the proposal for a representative was presented, the government had started work such as: the capital requirement of limited liability companies. Last July, Lawyer Gudmund Knudsen was commissioned by the Ministry of Justice to investigate simplifications of the Share Act, especially in view of the needs of small limited liability companies. A central part of the mission was to assess whether the minimum capital requirement should be lowered. The investigation was carried out on 7 January of this year and is now under consultation, as already mentioned, with a deadline of 19 April of this year. Lawyer Knudsen has proposed that the minimum share capital requirement under the Share Law should be NOK 30 000. The investigation also promotes other important proposals for simplification and modernisation of the Shares Act, including: simpler rules for the formation of limited liability companies and rules giving companies greater freedom to choose how to organise themselves. Some decorations are also proposed in the rules on credit to own shareholders and the acquisition of own shares by the company. The last proposal may in particular have an impact on the implementation of generational shifts and facilitate the participation of workers in the company. Several have asked whether the proposal on the size of the share capital can be dealt with out of step and faster than the remainder of the selection. However, the size of the share capital will affect a number of the other rules of the law. This means that the requirement for share capital must be seen in conjunction with other rules of the Share Act and not assessed in isolation. The form of the limited liability company is the most widely used form of business in Norway and therefore the rules of the Share Act have a major impact on traders. Moreover, the main emphasis of limited liability companies is small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is therefore particularly important to look at simplifications for these companies. The government's work on the Shares Act follows up the Soria Moria II Declaration, which explicitly mentioned business simplification, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. The simplification and modernisation of the Share Act must also be seen in the context of other proposals and measures by the government. In particular, I mention the proposal to grant an exemption from the audit obligation for small limited liability companies, which will be dealt with in the April Stortinget. Overall, these two proposals represent opportunities for significant simplifications and savings for limited liability companies and contribute to the competitiveness of Norwegian rules. In addition, I also point to the possibilities for electronic reporting through Altin and further work on this. It is also announced that the government will present a numerical target to reduce the costs to businesses and propose concrete measures and plans to achieve this objective. There have been 200 000 new jobs in the private sector in the last ten years, and business, including entrepreneurs, has good jobs in Norway. The government attaches great importance to the simplification work to benefit entrepreneurs in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2216	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2232	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Bente Stein Mathisen is the first speaker, instead of the case's rapporteur, Harek Elvenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2243	Most people agree that criminal acts and violent behaviour must be dealt with by the community. However, in meeting young offenders under the age of authority, it is not only a matter of punishment, it must also be a matter of rehabilitation. There must be an objective to benefit from individual follow-up schemes with control and focus on changing undesirable behaviour. It is easier to reverse adverse developments when actions are initiated early. Of course, children and young people who commit serious criminal acts, as reported in the media, and to which the proposers refer, must be protected and taken care of so that they do not cause serious harm to others. In this area, we have a major challenge, and I would say that we have been a little too short, and that we lack good enough tools and offers. Child protection is contacted and comes in when you're dealing with a criminal youth under the age of 18. In some particularly challenging and difficult cases, it is not possible to avoid a criminal reaction in the form of prisons with custody and housing, and it is not a good thing for these young people, because then they often get together with older and heavier criminals. The Children’s Protection Act allows for the forced placing of children and young people with serious behavioural problems in the field of child protection. It is the councils for child protection and social matters that take decisions in these cases, cf. the Child Protection Act. The proposers believe that the legal certainty of those who are being forced against their will is not sufficiently ensured when a county body determines such a location. The proposers believe that a court should take decisions when children and young people are placed under compulsion against their own consent or the consent of the courts. The Committee seems to have raised a very important issue and shared the concerns of the proposers regarding measures and follow-up of young people who have landed on the slope. It is a fact that there are often not enough prevention measures when school, relatives and networks are concerned about young people who have started to change behaviour and who are moving in troubled environments with drugs and crime. Young people who have started a criminal career need to be met with clarity by society, with proper follow-up, and with criminal reactions that seem rehabilitating. The Committee also agrees that children and young people under the age of 18 should not be penalised in ordinary prisons together with older sentences and detention centres. Such an impact on older and heavier criminals could reinforce the unfortunate development of young people. The Committee underlines and points out that children and young people with criminal behaviour need a safe and firm framework and a structured approach that can help them to move on to a new track. In this context, the Committee will refer to pilot projects already under way. A youth unit is established in Bergen, and one here is also planned in the eastern region. These are special prison units under criminal law. These units are for young people aged 15 to 18 years and should be able to accommodate young people from all over the country. It shall be an offer both to custody inmates and to courts. The units in their design shall be similar to a non-incarcerated dwelling and shall be arranged in such a way that family and family members can have contact with their children. The safety requirement and the specific needs of the team shall be addressed by a combination of building and manning measures. As far as staff are concerned, half of the staff have a background in prison. The remaining have backgrounds in environmental therapy, pedagogics and psychiatry. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, believe that alternative forms of response to prison should be used as far as possible, so that imprisonment can only be used once all other options have been evaluated. Norway is obliged by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which points out that imprisonment of children is only to be used as a last resort and for the shortest possible period of time. Sometimes, unfortunately, the drastic step must be taken to bring about a deterrent response to children, too, in the interests of social protection. This is the case where children and young people have committed particularly serious or repeated crimes. The majority of the Committee would also point out that the government has announced that it will make a legislative proposal with a notification part to be completed this spring, which will address the overall fight against childhood and juvenile delinquency. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal No. 1, where they pray ‘The Government shall bring an action before the Storting for a change in child protection practices, where such decisions are taken by a court rather than by the county’. The majority in the Committee is of the opinion that it is too detailed to go into the field. The majority believe that replacing a county court hearing requires a more thorough professional assessment and investigation. The members of the Committee from the Right support the intention of the proposal by the proposers and refer to the lack of offers to young people committing repeated criminal acts, and the powerless situation of child protection sometimes exists in dealing with some younger offenders with major problems of violence and crime. I address the following suggestions from the Right: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote the cause of the Stortinget with the necessary legislative changes to ensure a better follow-up of young people who have started a criminal racetrack.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2279	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2282	I will first start by thanking you for a very good introduction and presentation for the work on this matter in the committee. Then I will continue to say that fortunately few people believe that young people who have committed criminal acts become better people and less criminals from being in prison. There is a cross-political consensus that we must have a more holistic approach to young people who have entered a criminal career. We know that many of the young people who have committed serious crime have had a difficult growth. Many have experienced care failures, including: with a high level of intoxication and unpredictability in the home, which in turn has led to difficulties in adapting and learning at school for some. The Labour Party therefore believes that early efforts towards these children are and will be the best way to prevent juvenile delinquency. Nevertheless, it is a fact that youth commits crime. These must, of course, have a reaction, have the opportunity to settle and get the opportunity to come back to society as law-abiding citizens. Of course, we in the Workers' Party support the government's efforts to increase the use of alternative forms of reaction and criminal enforcement, as these are also important rehabilitation measures. I came the other day over a paper from JusticeProfessors – a collection of answers to the Minister of Justice about children and punishment from just young people who have committed criminal acts and are punished for them. There was one person who said about being in prison: you don't forget the old problems in prison. And then you get a new life with new problems on the purchase, bad idea. For the first time in prison, I immediately became a running boy. Then I learned to be a help boy for the big ones. You want to be a better person, but in here you have no chance of doing that. Prison is limp, wound and sleep, but you can't feel it. When I got out, I noticed that I had stopped trusting people. Now I don't trust anyone. I think that's going to be my biggest problem. Then someone said something about what it was like to be in youth: there I knew that the adults wanted me to get things. And they meant it all right. They gave me confidence, and then it became very different. They treat you with great respect here. And a third told me about social sanctions: social sanctions are much better than prison. Then I can keep in touch with family and friends. And I get good follow-up of nice people. At first, I was very angry and kept making trouble. I thought that I could sit in prison for nine months. But I realized it helped me get a normal life again. These statements from young criminals tell us that government policy makes sense. Unfortunately, we sometimes have to use detention against some of the young people for the protection of society. The pilot projects with youth units are intended to replace both custody and housing in ordinary prisons. I myself have visited the youth unit in Bergen, and I believe that the work they do there, with high interdisciplinary competence, close staffing and individual follow-up of the individual, will provide a high rehabilitation quality on the settlement. In the first Soria Moria Declaration, the government announced a review of the situation of minors convicted. The review came in St.meld. No 20 for 2005–06, Alternative criminal responses to young offenders, followed up by NOU 2008:15, Children and Penalties – Developmental Support and Control. The government has now announced a billing proposal during the spring to follow up the proposals of the NOU. We in the Workers' Party are looking forward to this important matter being presented to the Stortinget for treatment. And with that in mind, we support the position that the proposal for a representative that we are now considering should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2303	Youth prison is not a new phenomenon. Throughout history, there have been countless such prisons, or rather institutions. So what's new with this proposal? I want to start with an excerpt from the book Police and Robbers – which probably many of you have read – written by Kjetil S. Østli, where Brenna interviews a criminal repeater: ‘Incarceration is a criminal school, it is completely correct. You learn from the mistakes of others, and you connect. When Hansen was inside when he was in his 20s, he asked old ring foxes, especially boxheads, about a lot. He learned different ‘disciplines’ and how to deal with the police and how the judicial system and the prosecution authority work. He learned that it pays not to admit anything and that you can appeal out of prison. [[...]] You ask me, they should be sent to institutions with military discipline.» Now we're not going to take it all out, but I want to say with this that we're actually going to think new. We are not going to go into the word ‘prison’ or ‘youth imprisonment’. We're going to think about something new. We are not going to have children and young people in ordinary prisons, nor in sheltered wards that we see are established in Bergen, and later maybe in Oslo. What we need is a new type of rehabilitation institution, which is not linked to existing prisons, but which stands on its own feet – a place where it is thought new and creative in terms of follow-up and criminal response to younger criminal offenders. Such an institution will in practice be a child protection institution that creates an individual long-term rehabilitation plan aimed at individuals, but with the ability of the prison to exercise power and control. So who are they, these young, criminal boys -- because there are basically boys falling into this group? Last year, a small group of South African child-restraints created national views as notorious criminals into the 14th century. 13 boys have nearly 700 reported conditions against them, such as armed ran, knife, gross burglary, wild man driving at 170 km/h, etc. It is not useful to move these around in different child protection institutions. Nor do they belong in ordinary prisons. Now I'm not going to try a professional analysis, but that these are boys who have to be caught much more much earlier than today, there's no doubt about it. Most juvenile criminals are victims of serious care failure. There's a gaping gap between child protection and the police. In this hole, there are more and more, younger and worse, juvenile criminals. Robert Cornell researched masculinity in boys from the working class and found a similar status hierarchy: homophilis at the bottom, with cowardice, fear and feminism in men. On the other hand, he found courage, action and manhood – which we have seen in different ways over the last few years. Cornell found out one more thing: these guys were often school losers. He connected masculinity and crime. How do you get to work when you have bad advice, don't succeed at school, don't take education, can't look forward to a job that's full of status, and don't get in position? Well, by protest, a rebellion against the prevailing values of society, everything you can't even access. Some of these criminal youths have come so far that they actually need to be protected from themselves. That's why we need institutions that can zero out these attitudes, pick the individual apart, and then put it all back together -- a kind of'restart'. There is a need for clear frameworks, disciplines, professional coordination and care of fixed persons, not a shift that is such that you arrive at 4 p.m. 8:00 a.m. 16 – very much like an oil tour, as many of these youths themselves have expressed, to see the same people in the evening as those you see the next morning. A new type of institution is needed under official control where storage is combined with improvement, a place where prison officers work in teams with child protection workers – call it a bot and improvement campus, or a new start campus, but for all things with a different address than Ila and Ullersmo. I will deal with the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2336	The representative Åse Michaelsen has brought up the publishers to whom she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2339	It is very important when young people break the law that they are given the opportunity to gain control of their own lives again, that they are given the opportunity and help to break free from crime. To achieve this, they must not be put together with professional criminals. I'll come back to this a little later. The most important thing we can do for children not to get into crime is to give them a safe and qualitatively good childhood. It is scientifically established that 40 pst. of prisoners with only primary education, almost no higher education. This is far below the average picture in society — in other words, which has already failed in childhood. I am therefore pleased that this government is betting on measures that enable children to master their everyday lives in positive arenas. Full babysitting is a reality. The price is affordable. Educational assistance has been introduced in schools. The government is in a positive dialogue with the teachers — the most important thing in school after the children. This will motivate teachers to do an even better job. The private school wave has stopped, and secondary education has become free. Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen works to ensure that as many young people as possible complete high school – the best medicine against young people getting into crime. But it's not going to come from the fact that even young people unfortunately break the law. I am pleased that there is a heavy majority on the Grand Duchy that supports the government's goal of using alternative forms of response to prison as far as possible. The conflict councils and ‘restorative justice’ are good solutions. This gives the victims upliftment, and the youth is given the opportunity to settle and move on in life. Someone must unfortunately zone. Then it's important that we not only get caught up in the punishment, but that we make it possible for this young person to learn to live a law-abiding life after the atonement. Child protection must enter heavily. Schools and education must be given priority. I am glad that the government is putting a heavy strain on this both in Bergen and in Oslo. The house in Bergen is operational, with good contents. I have visited it twice, and I will praise the work the employees do there. This house can be of the best stay for young people to live there – the conditions are at least convenient for it. Now it's up to you to make use of it. I look forward to a similar good offer coming into place soon in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2354	In the 2005 Soria Moria Declaration, the government announced a review of the situation of convictions under 18 years of age. The case was dealt with in St.meld. No 20 for 2005–06, Alternative criminal responses to young offenders, followed through NOU 2008:15 Children and punishment – development aid and control. The government's aim is not to put children in prison. The government will therefore continue its efforts to increase the use of alternative forms of reaction and criminal enforcement. Prison shall only be used once all other alternatives have been evaluated. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, by which Norway is obliged, points out that imprisonment of children should only be used as a last resort and for a minimum period of time. However, the importance of social protection makes it necessary to have a detention response available to children who have committed serious or repeated crimes. In these cases, the government is concerned that the content of the sentence is of high rehabilitation quality and that children under the age of 18 do not live with older convictions and custody prisoners. In Norway, fortunately, we have few children in prison, at any time approx. 10 persons under 18 years of age. For these children, the government has decided to set up two distinct youth units under criminal law as a pilot project. The units shall receive youth from all over the country and be an offer to both caretakers and referees. So far, one youth unit is established in connection with Bergen prison. The unit has been in operation since 1 September 2009 in temporary premises and has a multidisciplinaryly composed crew of 18 persons in turn. There is also a psychologist added to the device, such as have tasks related to the screening and individual treatment of prisoners and to the guidance of officials. The government is working on the establishment of a similar unit in the eastern part of the country. The units in their design shall be approximately equal to a dwelling without a prison term. Provision shall be made for family or family members to have contact with their children. The safety requirement and the specific needs of the team shall be addressed by a combination of building and manning measures. The government is working for good cross-border cooperation arrangements that provide children with a well-coordinated and multidisciplinary offer both while in prison and after their release. In that NOU on children and punishment, alternative responses and responses to serious juvenile delinquency were further investigated. In order to reduce the number of children in prison, it is proposed to introduce a new criminal reaction — the major youth meeting — as an alternative to unconditional imprisonment. The target group is children under the age of 18 who have committed repeated and/or serious crime. In the new reaction, social control through close follow-up will replace the physical control of prison. During the spring session, the government will promote a legislative proposal that follows up the proposals of the Children and Punishment Investigation. The legislative proposal shall address the overall fight against childhood and juvenile delinquency, involving changes in, inter alia: the criminal procedure law, the criminal law, the conflict resolution law and the criminal enforcement law. The representatives' proposals for changing child protection practices have been submitted to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, which states that the role of the county councils has been assessed several times since it was established in 1993. In St.meld. No 23 for 2000–2001 by the Ministry of Justice, it is noted that the advantages of county councillors over ordinary courts are that the county councillors have acquired a wide range of experience and specific competences in the field of child protection, while at the same time working under the same basic rules applicable to the courts. In 2006, Stortinget adopted new rules of procedure for its members. Their aim is to ensure uniform and appropriate procedures in the counties in line with the basic rules of good practice applicable in the ordinary courts. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the proposal to set up separate prisons for young people aged 15 to 18, both to improve the content of the compensation and to avoid children under 18 being in ordinary prisons together with older sentences and care services. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the SV and the Central Party, support the government’s objective of using alternative forms of response to prison as far as possible, so that prison is used only after all other alternatives have been evaluated. The majority do not support the proposal to change the practice of placing children in child protection, since, in the view of the majority, it is too detailed to go into the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2376	In this debate we have heard several representatives say that for young people who unfortunately end up in serious crime – and we see that many do – the school has failed, they have not received the necessary training they need, they can neither read nor write in very many cases. We also see that child protection has failed and should have intervened a lot earlier. So society has largely failed to follow them up at an early stage. Does the Council of State take self-criticism on behalf of the Government in view of the fact that in many areas government policies have not been able to follow up these young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2382	There is a great deal of work to be done in the prevention field. However, these are challenging cases, which also require reinforced efforts, and therefore, in recent years, improved inter-disciplinary cooperation solutions have been established with a view both to catching up children with behavioural problems in the past and to making good efforts. So cooperation between the justice sector and the health sector, between the police and other prevention actors has improved over recent years, and more and more resources are being put in place to contribute to the best possible solutions at the earliest possible time, including for this group, in the justice sector and together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2387	The primary task of child protection is to care for children and young people who are under care failure, not to take care of violent children and young people with criminal behaviour in order to protect society. Nevertheless, child protection needs to be provided when decisions are taken by the county council on the coercive placement of children with major behavioural and violence problems. Child protection continues to show that they have neither resources, competences nor clear enough legislation to deal with the most violent and active young criminals for whom they are being held prisoner and held responsible. What does the Council of State think to do with this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2392	I believe that we see good results from, for example: the ‘Project of Respect’ established in Kristiansand as a result of the special challenges brought to it by a number of children. Police, Buffetat and Child Welfare have established more committed cooperation, and as a result of the targeted work that has gone on both to contribute better solutions around the children and to improve the professional offer, the Agder district now informs that the wave has stopped. All of the children are sentenced today, most of them are in a child-resistance facility, the others are in prison, among others. in the youth unit in Bergen. This is a concrete cooperation project that I think the sector will be able to learn a lot from together with child protection and Bufetat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2397	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2402	This is a very important matter, and I think it is very good that has been said in the debate. But unfortunately, the results and experiences of how this is being implemented are not, as the glorification I hear relative to the importance of this issue. I would like to take just one example from my own county: a 15-year-old commits an armed robbery with the child-rescue staff, without any intervention by the employee. The 15-year-old commits a new armed robbery, and child protection doesn't know how to deal with it. The police don't know how to deal with it. So there are no measures in the county to deal with this kind of behavior. And it doesn't stop that, of course, because it's about violence and threats of violence against employees in child protection, it's about threats and violence against other totally random victims that this youth encounters on its way. It's actually about saying that this is unacceptable. It's about making sure that person is not allowed to continue his activity. It's about taking responsibility for the person who commits this crime, but it's also about defending society against letting him continue to destroy the lives of other people. It should also be borne in mind when considering the activity of some of these young criminals. That is why I am very disappointed that no other political parties will be on proposal No. 1, at least not of the lots in the Committee. Because that's actually what it's all about: we're going to take care of the criminal and the interests of the criminal, but we also have a responsibility to take care of society. And if we're going to take care of the criminal, the most important thing we can do is prevent him from continuing to commit crime that he'll have to carry with him for the rest of his life. In fact, sometimes you have to say that someone is not allowed to be out in society. And that is what the proposal of the Progress Party is about, that is to say, to prevent the criminal from being allowed to carry out what he is doing by setting clear and clear limits. But it's also, of course, about keeping society safe. When I listen to the representative Akhtar Chaudhry, I get the impression that children who don't go to kindergarten are becoming more criminal. It really means that he says that the parents are not good enough to raise their own children. I totally disagree with that. I believe that parents have an important responsibility. They have to take that responsibility, and many of them do. I think it is completely wrong to blame for the fact that whether you have gone to a kindergarten or not is the reason for how it works. I think there's been a lot of party speeches. I would like to see them followed up with action, and that they had supported the proposals of the Progress Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2415	I was inspired by the last speeches. It is very important to stress that this matter is about an age group that we on the Right do not think should be met with punishment. This is an age group that, from the point of view of society, we are going to meet in a good way and offer good follow-up. That's our whole way into this case. Whenever I have the floor, I want to exemplify this with some of what we read about these young people from South Africa, who in many ways may form the basis for promoting the matter in the Stortinget. We could read — and the police have gone very far in confirming that it is correctly referred to in the newspapers — that some of these young people were driven to crime as a result of debts to one percent clubs in MC environments. I think it just describes the importance that these are not young people who are going to face punishment, but who are going to meet in a clear way on the part of society. It means that we have to set clear boundaries, of course in relation to behavior, but not least in relation to how organized crime is dealt with. Now, later in winter, we're getting a big message about organized crime up for treatment, so we're going to continue the debate there, but I think that's a good example of how we're going to tackle this fundamental challenge on the part of society. At the same time, I would like to commend the proposer for raising the matter as such, but the right answer is not primarily punishment, but good follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2424	The main speakers of the Progress Party had a very good analysis of the situation. I think she had a very good post, except that she fell to the wrong conclusion. I had hoped, after the good report, that she would say: that is why we look forward to the measure that the government has now set up in Bergen, and we are looking forward to Oslo also receiving that offer. But she came to a conclusion that I can't relate to the analysis. But when the representative Bård Hoksrud walks on the pulpit, the cats come out of the sack. That's what's the point of the Progress Party: They're less concerned with the fact that the young person between the ages of 15 and 18 that society in different stages has failed, who is in crime, needs our support and our help to come back to society as a good and law-abiding person. I feel that this is not what the Advance Party is concerned about, at least not after the post that Mr. Bård Hoksrud made. Then I am very happy that the policies of the Progress Party, at least this part of the policy, will never be realised in this country. I am very pleased that the Right takes responsibility and has a very tidy, thoughtful and reflective justice policy in this area. I'm very happy about that. And I am very pleased that the Progress Party is standing in Parliament alone in terms of justice policy, at least in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2433	I don't think we're so very disagreed about where we want to go, but we disagree about location. We don't disagree on everything that has to do with content, but we disagree on the way forward. We don't want the placement of a youth institution wall in the wall with an ordinary prison. We don't want the same address, we don't want stigmatisation where one says you were sitting there in Bergen, or – as the representative here says – you were sitting there and there in Oslo, attached to a prison there. That's exactly what we don't want. We want an institution that is located somewhere else, not linked to an ordinary prison — even though the adult criminals may not come into contact with these juvenile criminals. This is one of the issues where we disagree. What are these juvenile criminals saying when you talk to them, and if you listen to them? They say they really want a mom and a dad, because they've never had a family in their life, they've never had a mom and a dad who cares, a mom and a dad who says they'll be home at nine. There is no ‘sosion envelope’, it is not to sew cushions under their arms — different measures where it is not linked. These young people need ordinary follow-up, and I think they'll get in such an institution as the Progress Party wants. And I think actually discipline is an important thing -- positive discipline. I know there's a word that many in this room are allergic to. One might call it the obvious frame, and I think it's the parent set for their children. I'm the mother of three, and I care and frame my children, although it's not always as easy. These frames mean I care. When I tell my girls they'll be home at nine o'clock, I'll be at the door and make sure they're home at nine o'clock. If they're home over five, there'll be trouble. There are very many of these criminal youths who – as I said in the post – have not had. They can get that on a campus like this. So it has something to do with attitudes. One of the boys who ran a bus driver on a bus said in the court case afterwards that he really didn't care about the feelings of the bus driver, but he thought it was a little fun to see his expression. He didn't care. This has to do with attitudes, and I am not in doubt that thinking new is the right thing in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2444	The representative, Werp and others, have argued that what is important is to take care of these young people who end up in a criminal racetrack. But how are we going to take care of them? Should we send them from institutions to institutions, where they constantly meet new people, where they constantly meet people who do not have the skills to take care of them in such a way that they should be taken care of? In fact, in criminal matters they have this competence. They have the skills to take care of young people who are criminals, who have unparalleled recessions, who have a reaction pattern that normal kids don't have. We should take that with us. Nor should we place them in ordinary prisons, because, as has been said before, common prisons for young people are undoubtedly training institutions. It says older former criminals, and it also says the young people themselves. They're busy getting follow-up, they're busy meeting people they recognize, to whom they can get a relationship. They want it so that when they lie down in the evening, they say good night to a person, and then they can say good morning to the same person when they meet him again in the morning. That's what they're busy about. The fact that we set up departments in ordinary prisons does not seem to them to be positive either. That's what former criminals say, and that's what the youth himself says. They want a fixed place that they can deal with, a fixed place where they meet other youths, where they can actually have something that looks like a youth. The representative of Chaudhry did not agree with the Progress Party and our approach to this matter in terms of how we want this to be. Then I settle down and think that this is a good proposal – a good proposal that perhaps more people can agree with. So I noticed that the representative Bård Hoksrud had a comment to Chaudhry about it with children and kindergartens. I responded that when the representative Chaudhry was in the pulpit afterwards, he did not reject the representative Hoksrud said. He still insists that parents are not suitable for raising kids, and that kindergarten is the best thing if you are to avoid kids getting into a criminal racetrack.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2453	The cat was on the pulpit, I wish that the mice also had to be a bit tougher, for after listening to the representative Chaudhry, I don't think there was much will there to look at the victims of this. I am very pleased that the Progress Party is a party that cares about the victims, a party that says that we should of course help those who end up on the slope. The whole point of the proposal is that there does not have to be a law of nature for one to be placed in a prison — setting up a department in a prison. But we want – and this is actually for the benefit of the criminal – to prevent him from committing new crimes. That's what this is all about. In the case of some of the worst, you have to make sure that they are protected from society, because they destroy both for themselves, and they destroy for others. I've been talking to people who have been victims of this 15-year-old, and it's pretty strong to hear the experiences they've had. When you know that child protection employees have been involved and have not intervened – they call the police and say that a 15-year-old is doing a job, without intervening – I understand at least that the victims do not feel that they are being taken care of. I record, as I said, that the representative Chaudhry is more concerned with the criminal than with the victims. I think it is important both to prevent the criminal racetrack from continuing, and not least to ensure that the victims are also held responsible, as I have little heard that this debate has revolved around, and where the feedback is actually that people are terrified because some of these people are so dangerous that they should not go outside – not ever go out, because that is the whole point of what we want, namely that we should help them back without continuing the criminal racetrack. I am pleased that I represent a political party that believes that it is the victims that are really important to care for, while at the same time protecting the criminals and preventing them from continuing to commit crime. It serves everyone, both the criminal and – not least – the society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2460	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2464	Once again, I fully agree with the analysis of the representative Michaelsen, but I do not understand how to reach the conclusion that the Progress Party is able to reach. I ask: Has anyone from the board visited Bergen, the Children's Department? I'm absolutely sure no one's done it. But the question is, how can you say all that you're saying from Storting's pulpit without knowing what's going on out there? What's the criminal code doing out there? It's just the things that representatives Michaelsen and Bård Hoksrud are looking for and asking, that are done in Bergen. Then it is not just the representative Chaudhry who disagreed with the Progress Party. The whole Storting disagrees with the Advance Party, and we are very pleased with that. So the representative, Chaudhry, doesn't have to comment on any play from the Progress Party. Some fall on their own unreasonableness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2473	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2490	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2499	This is a representative proposal on ICT investment in the police and real strengthening of the police’s operational budget. Proposalers have put some emphasis on ICT investment issues and are committed to keeping investments out of the ordinary operating budget of the police rather than into their own budgets, so that the goal of building up the police force, which is to move towards having two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants, can be achieved. Proposalers have expressed – and it has also appeared in minority comments – that they feel that the Storting is poorly informed about what is happening to ICT investment in the police. It rejects the majority thoroughly and believes that the information has been good enough. Nevertheless, the government parties agree that, together with the minority, emphasis is placed on the importance of clarifying the availability of ICT in the police sector in future budgets for the justice sector. It was supposed to be missing. It's amazing to see when we're dealing with a case that has to do with ICT investment, and it's going on with the police's operating budget: we have a great deal of agreement in this room that the police are a bet area. We're going to achieve a target, which is two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants, and we're going to get a good and close police in Norway, so we can have the opportunity to fight crime. When the committee sent letters to the Council of State, to the Minister of Justice, on the matter, we got an answer, which is a long and good one, and it depends a lot on how much the police have received in recent years, and it is boasted that the appropriations have increased considerably. That's right. The appropriations for the police have increased, but the problem, or the challenge, is that the task has increased much more. The task of the police for society has increased much more than what the budget has done. We can take just one example: the foreign criminals, of whom we have more and more in this country, make sure that police spending also increases considerably, among other things. to interpret services. But it is also interesting to note that the Council of State in the letter of reply, where the matter is presented, says: ‘I would also like to take the opportunity to remember that it is not possible to assume that all students are offered a job immediately after the examination’ — then police students remarked. ‘The majority of those who are graduates of the Police College shall replace police officers who retire or leave for other reasons.’ We will try to build a police force in Norway that will make up two officials per 1,000 inhabitants. If most of the graduates from the Police College are to replace former policemen – i.e. people who retire or who end up for other reasons – how in the world are we going to be able to get into two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants? It can't be done. It's completely impossible to do that. If we are to have an opportunity to build a police service in Norway to a level that allows us to have a safe and good society, the allocation needs to be increased. Then it cannot be that when the police get approx. 550 million. kr more this year, goes 378 million. to raise wages and prices. And then we're left with 168 million. kr, and then the government will bet 250 million. kr on ICT. Then we're clearly going to minus, and that minus has to cover the police districts themselves. That results, as we've seen this year, and we're going to see next year, that the police are unable to hire new people. The police districts then have to cancel people. They have to, at the expense of their own security, do it. So there are fewer police officers out in the streets and out in the districts to take care of the security of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2515	The President assumes that the representative should also make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2518	Of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2523	Then the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen has addressed the proposal to which he has referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2526	In recent years, ICT in the police sector is important for key decisions we have taken here in the Storting in relation to new criminal law and new criminal systems to be implemented, in relation to new police law and the system of registers to be built up. So key decisions like this are now waiting for the new ICT structure to come into place. It's important that the Big Thing is on here. We have seen reports on police data and material services and work on this in the Police Directorate, which has been serious, with weaknesses in progress and weaknesses in the construction of the ICT structure in the police. We now see that the department and the directorate have taken care of it. It is important that we at Stortinget discuss this continuously, which we get the opportunity to do today. What's good is that in 2010, we've spent $180 million. kr to build new infrastructure for ICT in the police, and that in 2011 we put aside 250 million. kr for the same purpose. What is important is to note the statement made by the representative of Ørsal Johansen, as shown by the comments, is that when he comes up with this calculation and says that there is an increase in police appropriations this year of 546 million. NOK – plus 100 million. So I'm going to say NOK 100 million is going to be set free. To – he subtracts from a total of 250 million. kr from the figure for ICT investment this year. Then I just want to make sure that 180 million. kr of the 250 million is a continuation of the investment level from last year, so that they are within the 11.6 billion. kr, which was the last year's budget. With regard to the increase in the year's budget of 546 million. NOK, he would have to pay attention to subtracting the SEK 70 million. kr which is the increase in ICT appropriations of the year. So that difference gets a lot smaller. It is also clear from the Minister of Justice's reply to the Storting in the course of this case that the interest is to cover the 70 million. This is the increase in investment in ICT this year, by drawing funds from different projects that can be financed in a more flexible way, and then avoiding the impact on police districts this year as much as it received last year. Much of the processes now in the police districts indicate that these ICT investments have been taken more into account in 2010 and that the management of them in 2011 in relation to the budget framework is becoming less problematic than it was last year, as I also perceived it as the message of that 180 million. kr was to be invested in ICT, could have come earlier and been clearer for some of the police districts, so that there was no need to tighten budgeting beyond the year. There is also reason to mention that the minority comments here state that ICT investment is not mentioned in the budget proposal submitted during the harvest. I brought with me today's budget proposal for the year, and here it shows quite a lot about how to think about ICT investment, for example. on page 83, pages 100 and 101 and page 37, if the representative Ørsal Johansen would like to have some page references What is contained in the draft representative is a different idea of separating ICT investment from the overall police budget. It is a question that governments and government parties will come back to once we have completed the project, where the costs of ICT investment in the future, to build criminal justice systems, police law systems, etc. be clarified. When they are clarified by this pre-project, it may be possible to clarify this in the budget, as we are now saying, and it may also be possible to go further in order to take into account that those investments will not affect the police's ability to operate properly and the possibility of building up the number of posts in the years to come in line with the police's 2020 strategy, which we agree on, and which involves two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2545	The need for comprehensive ICT upgrades in the police department has been thoroughly documented and highlighted. In spite of this, however, the government's 2011 government proposal for a government budget did not specify how much money would be spent on this upgrade this year or in subsequent years. In retrospect, it's 250 million. kr shall be used for that purpose and that these funds shall be drawn from different projects in the sector. When Stortinget dealt with the state budget for 2010, it was not known that it would be excluded from a large sum from police district operational budgets for central financing of ICT investments. Later it became known that 180 million. The NOK was withheld. Unfortunately, the consequences of this are well known, namely that you have not filled out vacancies in the police department, you have had to fail to invest in equipment, and not least we see that newly trained police students do not get a job. During the hearing of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the National Audit Office’s investigation into police action against organised crime, Document 3:10 for 2009–2010, the police director made it clear that since 2006 she has communicated to political management that the need for ICT upgrades is urgent. In the media, there have been different estimates of the total cost of upgrades — from 1 billion to 2.2 billion. kr. Based on past experience with extensive public-sector ICT projects, the Right believes that these amounts could be too low. These are situation descriptions that form the background for the Right-wing Representative proposal, and there are a lot of political dimensions in this. Firstly, it is of concern to the Right that information and decision-making bases related to our budgetary treatment of the justice area are not considered to be complete. A large amount of money is generated afterwards, with the consequent impact on the operation of the sector, especially for the police in this context. Furthermore, it is of concern to the Right that the kind of movement – to put it that way – of large amounts of figures after the presentation of the budget can give the impression that the Ministry of Justice is headed by the adhoc method, and there can be great question marks on the basis that the Stortinget has in order to take its decisions and get the necessary overview of the decisions we take, when, as I said, so much money is moved and comes to the surface after the budget has been dealt with. In the right, we are also concerned about the consequences of these large amounts and their resurgence on the ability of the police to solve their important societal mission. The police reports are unfortunately worrying in this way. Furthermore, the proposal states that the Right attaches great importance to our shared responsibility to ensure that those who have taken a three-year police education get a job. There are highly qualified young people, who have a burning motivation to do something about social development, and then we have a shared responsibility to facilitate them to get a job. The last time the right polls, a few weeks ago, still stood 60 from last year's newly graduated coal without a job. It's over 10 pst. of the total litter. As can be seen from this article, the Right-Critical Questions – in our opinion for good reason. At the same time, I would like to stress that this on our part is actually meant to be an attempt to show that we want to find common good and constructive solutions to solve what is, of course, a major challenge. That is why, frankly, we find it disappointing that the proposal is not subject to more detailed consideration by the government fraction, but is annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2562	Should the police be better equipped than the robbers, the police need both enough people and good equipment. A modern and well-functioning ICT system is important to make the work of the police easier and best possible, and in order to have the new criminal law fully implemented, the criminal justice system must also be renewed. Of course, we should all wish that the large amount of ICT investment that is leading could be made in a short time. Fortunately, there is already an ongoing effort to put in place a new ICT infrastructure, and money has been allocated directly to this objective in both 2010 and 2011. When it comes to progress forward, the majority agree that the ongoing project should be completed before a final decision can be made on the amount of money to be spent on investments and how to implement the new criminal justice systems. Otherwise, the operation budget for the police is also the subject of this debate. Now it's a bit striking that the allegations of a lack of involvement in the police come from representatives of a party that definitely didn't bet on the police the last time they were in government. Rather, they made sure to train more policemen who could have covered the positions they now claim they would have provided an economic basis for establishing if they had the power. I will leave this behind and refer to what we red-green have done within the police. We've got double admissions at the Police College and we've given police and prosecution powers $3.4 billion. kr more to walk with from 2006 to 2011. The number of annual jobs has been increased, which means that graduates can get a job. With this, I am not saying that it is not necessary to increase the rights of the police anymore, because with the goal of strengthening the crew, so that there are two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants by 2020, it is clear that we must continue to bet. But everything is relative, and relatively, the bet on the police has been relatively larger with this government than when the Right sat at the rudder, which fortunately takes a while ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2577	The police have had low operating budgets for several years. In the districts, there is no economy for the necessary new employment and for the acquisition of the equipment they need. Now when we start approaching Easter, and later one summer, one knows that there are many police districts that can't cover up enough temporary workers. Today, we are discussing the ICT system, and the ICT system is also affecting the operation because a person just sees that money has been taken from the operating budget that should have gone to employment and to provide other equipment, which has gone to ICT. The ICT system is important in order to ensure effective police operation and the introduction of the new penal code. From the media, I have noticed that the Minister of Justice has announced that the funding of the police's ICT upgrade could mean that a balance between cutting off other projects. At the same time, newly trained police officers must also be guaranteed jobs. The escalation is in line with the Police Directorate’s crew report ‘Police against 2020’, preferably without delay. In the treatment of the 2010 State budget, it was unknown to the Stortinget that 180 million. kr would be deducted from the operational budgets of the police districts to finance the ICT upgrade. The amount to be spent on ICT is also not clarified in the 2011 budget. Prioritisation of funding for ICT upgrades in 2010 particularly affected the capacity of police districts to recruit new trainees. Therefore, there are still students who have not received a job. Police posts have been kept open when officials stop, only for the purpose of saving money. In 2010, the government granted some extra funds for increased staffing, but much of this was lost as a result of the 180 million. as the Directorate of Police held back to ICT. The same thing will happen in 2011. Nearly 380 million. NOK 547 million in additional appropriations. until the police are compensated for the increase in wages and prices. Then it's 168 million. kr left in fresh means. When it was 250 million. SEK or 70 million. to go back to ICT investment, there will be no more money left than last year for employment and to maintain existing positions. The estimate of the implementation of ICT investment shows that total cost could be 2.2 billion. kr. If it has to be covered by the operating budget, there will be considerable consequences for the staffing of the police around the country. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to modernise the ICT structure of the police. But this investment cannot go beyond police personnel. Such an important and large investment requires a separate plan. With experience from another committee and another sector that also has challenges with ICT, namely Nav, I know that such types of investment are essential for efficient operation, and not least it is absolutely necessary to have a separate plan for the upgrade to take place. Strengthening the basic police force is a prerequisite for maintaining a decentralised police structure. The Christian People's Party wants locally anchored police with acceptable response and processing time. Without adequate resources, the police's ability to fight crime will gradually be weakened. Norway has a geographical and population structure that suggests that police coverage should be higher than many other countries with which we would otherwise compare. Police must at all times have the means to enable the tasks to be resolved with the necessary degree of speed, precision and safety. Without a good enough ICT system, a lot of resources will be wasted. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will today support the proposals put forward by the Right and the Advance Party of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2596	Initially, I would like to point out that both the ICT systems of the police and the challenges of police operating budgets are mentioned in the government's political platform, which includes: it is established that the government will work to gain more police force out of the resources available and increase police staff. The biggest challenge that this government inherited from the Bondevik II government in the justice sector is the lack of people in the police and civil service. Therefore, during the period 2006-2011, the government has carried out a very required strengthening of the police. We have done this by doubling the admission to the Police College from 360 to 720 and increasing the appropriations to the police and prosecution authorities by 3.4 billion. kr nominally from the 2006 balance to the 2011 balance. This will enable all graduate police high school students to get a job in the police department. Figures of the year-on-year development recently received from the FAD show that in the police and prosecution authorities there is an increase of 297 annual works from 1 October 2009 to 1 October 2010. The police director can inform that by 10 March this year, 372 of the 428 graduates of high school police have been working in the police from this fall. Of these, 390 have passed the exam. According to the Police Directorate, there are now 216 vacant positions in the Police and National Staff Committee, of which 75 are police officers. I have noted the comments made by the majority of the Judicial Committee on the draft document 8 by the local government representatives, Mr Werp, Mr Aspaker and Mr Dahl on the plan for ICT investment in the police sector and the real strengthening of the police operating budget. The majority refer to the work already being done by the police in designing and implementing new ICT infrastructure, improving information security and preparing for the renewal of criminal justice systems. The majority also refers to the specific funding of the ICT initiative in 2010 and 2011, of 180 million, respectively. NOK 250 and SEK 250 million. kr. Furthermore, the majority consider that there is a need to close the project before it can be concluded in view of the final investment framework or implementation plan for the new criminal justice systems. The Ministry of Justice's proposals for the state budget for the current year set out the challenges facing the police in relation to the ICT situation in the country. Significant funding has been allocated in 2010 and 2011 to work on new ICT infrastructure, improved information security and a pre-project for new criminal systems. Means are also available to ensure the operation of current ICT systems. It is challenging and resource-intensive to plan and implement an ICT project as large as the renewal of police criminal systems. In order to avoid misinvestment and to ensure control of the cost framework of the project, careful planning and quality assurance are important. The Directorate of Police will therefore carry out this year a draft committee study for the project which will be subject to external quality assurance. In the light of this work, I will provide the Stortinget with a detailed explanation of the ICT situation in the police in the forthcoming budget proposal. I agree that the Directorate of Police, like other state activities, should have an investment plan showing the need for initial investment and reinvestment in key areas, including ICT. However, the preparation of such an investment plan does not imply that any investment need is covered by specific appropriations. The starting point shall be that both the police districts and the Police Directorate budget and plan their activities so that the needs can be addressed within the framework in force at all times. However, it will be such that any investment needs requiring special appropriations will be presented to the Magnitude in the ordinary course of time. The government will come back to this if necessary. The government's 2011 draft budget is firm. I am very concerned about both ICT investment, the staffing of the floor and the work of securing work for newly educated students. The 2011 State budget therefore announced that increased provision for ICT could primarily have implications for other police projects. The Government will follow up the target of two police officers per thousand by 2020, as signalled in the Police Directorate Report ‘Police against 2020’. The Government also follows in the 2011 budget the recommendations set out in the report, including: by continuing the admission to the Police College with 720 students. The allocation has also been strengthened to facilitate the provision of jobs to new trainees in the building.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2618	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2621	The representative Jan Bøhler of the Council of State said it was important that the Storting was ‘cut’ in this matter. I must say that I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler, because with such a strong commitment as the police are going through in the field of ICT, it is a matter that should have been dealt with absolutely by the Stortinget. And the government should put forward a clear investment plan on targets for achieving the plan and on what cost sides this has. We have seen that the central laws adopted by the Storting, for example. the new penal code has been suspended for many years because the police have not had the necessary ICT systems. This is not only true for the police, it is true for the entire justice sector, not least for the courts. Will the Council of State come to Stortinget with such a plan as I am here asking?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2626	There are major challenges the representative mentions. The ICT solutions for new criminal systems are complex, and that is why, as I explained, the Directorate of Police will carry out over the year what is called the draft selection inquiry for the project, i.e. the ICT sector, which will then also have to undergo external quality assurance. It is on the basis of this work that I, as I mentioned, will provide the Storting with a detailed explanation of the ICT situation in the police in the forthcoming budget proposal. I think it's very central to be able to go through what challenges this represents, with the consequences it has, also financially, for the establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2636	In my post, I referred to a letter from the Council of State saying that the largest proportion of those who graduate from the School of Police will replace police officers who retire or end up for other reasons. Now it is the case that the police are getting more and more jobs, and expenditure is increasing as the larger tasks go up. If you look at the calculation that was also presented from the pulpit, over the increased appropriations for the police, the free increase in the funds for the police in 2011 will be an average of 2.5 million. kr per police district. Then I just want to ask the following questions: How does the Council of State think that the number of police officers should increase from today's 1.6 per 1000 population to 2 per 1000 when the police do not increase real free income, and when the Council of State says in its letter that it is not meant to be increased, but that only police officers who leave the pension should be replaced?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2645	If we can agree that the police budget has been significantly increased over the years this government has been sitting, if we can agree that we have doubled the admission to the Police College, and if we can also agree that with the figures I referred to for senior police high school students, it will be 18 with the exam from 2010 that competes for the 75 available positions, then I think we can also agree that there has always been a discussion about what is sufficient and not least free operating resources. I am absolutely sure that we will have that discussion from this pulpit also in the time to come. But I think we've got an reinforcement of the police that's remarkable, given the starting point the government had in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2650	I think we all have a pretty good understanding that it is very important to put in place good ICT systems and a good infrastructure for the police. Operation, information flow and opportunities and tools are involved in investigating and clarifying crimes, but also the formal legal part. A large majority in the United Kingdom have supported the changes in the new penal code and the introduction of the new police register law. But both of these laws and their entry into force are conditional on, among other things, ICT systems are in place. My question to the Council of State is whether she can give a brief description of the status of the entry into force of the two major laws on the field of justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2659	I think we share the ambition to contribute to the entry into force of these two laws as quickly as possible. So I'm aware that it's part of the rules that require good technological solutions. It is therefore important to get up a good project to ensure that solutions are both good and forward-looking. This will be explained in the forthcoming budget proposal. As a temporary worker, I am only allowed to apologize for not being able to go directly into more detailed information relating to which parts of these different laws would be able to enter into force at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2666	I note that the Council of State says that the Department and the Council of State will discuss the challenges with the ICT systems in the 2012 budget proposal. But then I want to give a clear message from our side that it is not enough in such an explanation just to come up with a few lines where you superficially describe what is happening. This is such a big, important and demanding case that this case should have been raised and made visible to the granting authorities in a separate case. This is because – as I said in my previous reply – not only the police, but it concerns the entire judiciary. When we have asked questions, it is very difficult to understand what is the total need needed to get the police and courts up to a reasonable level of ICT.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2671	Without prescribing or going into detail about how the presentation will be given, I can promise to assume that there will be a presentation of the project that will confirm both the size and the device. There are significant investments to be made. Nevertheless, it is at this stage a little too early to conclude, in my opinion, that it is correct that this should be put on a separate budget chapter. There are many ways to clarify a cost and provide a basis for discussing this, without going into the reduced flexibility that also gives the police a separate chapter. But this will also be possible to discuss with the presentation of the budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2678	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2684	We are facing a historic, long-term and urgently needed ICT reform in the police force. The total investment has a price tag of approx. 2 billion. kr. The background to the reform is out-of-date systems and the need for upgrading in order to better meet the growing mobile and organised cross-border crime. The right supports the objective of the reform, but believes it is wrong that investments in this order should be financed from the ordinary police budgets. The Directorate of Police has decided that the ICT reform should be financed by holding back 1.6 pst. of the framework assignment to the police districts. This amounted to a total of 430 million for 2010 and 2011. kr. Increased operating costs and such a funding solution require police districts to reduce their operational units. In addition, there will be little room for recruiting the graduates who are now completing the Police College. This is confirmed and met with concern by the Joint Police Association. Rather, the right will help to find constructive and good solutions that will enable the police to strengthen their activities. Local police districts with an already tight economy must not be drained for resources to be involved in the split-up of a central ICT reform. The right considers that the ICT reform should be financed from its own budget, regardless of the ordinary police budget. This will create predictability for the police districts, will lead to more new jobs, and it will provide increased room for action for police to create safe communities. Maybe then we can eventually reach the goal of staffing two officials per thousand inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2693	As has been said here, ICT investment is important. In 2008, the development, design and implementation of an ICT structure in the police began. So it's been three years. I'm excited how long it takes for them to have an ICT system that allows each police district to communicate with each other without using fax. These ICT investments have been taken into account, said the representative of Bohemia, and that is correct. In 2011, police districts have taken this investment into account by lowering their level of operation. In other words, they have not taken into account the recruitment of more police officers than those who might retire. Then you can discuss whether it is the department or the directorate that has done a bad job in preparing for an ICT structure. It's anyway, as I see it, the department that's the top responsible, and that has to take that responsibility. The recording at the Police College has doubled, and that's good. It's okay that this government owes it to the Bondevik II government. I'm not going to do anything to defend the Bondevik II government, but it's okay to ask questions about how long you're going to owe the Bondevik II government. But anyway, if we hadn't had a doubling of the admissions at the Police College, we would actually have had a huge decline in the number of police officers in Norway. It's a single problem. Then it's like -- and numbers are boring -- that the Council of State was concerned that we had increased the allocation to the police. Yes, we agree. We've increased the recording at the Police College. We agree on that, too. We have some policemen who have still not got a job, and there are quite a few vacancies. But then it's also like that, as I said in my previous post, that 2.5 million. The average per police district is not tied up by the increased appropriations received by the police – 2.5 million. kr averaging per. police district. There won't be so many positions of it. Every police district and every policeman says, "Yes, we have job vacancies, but we don't have resources, money, to hire people in these positions." We don't have finances for it. We have to operate what we have, we have to have petrol on our cars. We have to have security equipment for our people. We may also have to have new cars, so we can't afford to hire anyone. The question is, are we going to hire a person, or are we going to buy a car? If we buy a car, we don't have anyone to drive it, we hire a person, we don't have anything he can drive. That's the situation the police are in. They have too little money to handle their daily operations in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2704	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2720	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2729	The Norwegian courts have great confidence in the population. All 84 pst. people say they have quite great or very high confidence in the courts. This was presented in a larger survey conducted by Synovate just before Christmas. Norway is well above the average in other Europe, where about 50 pst. they have confidence in the courts. This means that the employees in the courts do a good job. The Court of Justice and the staff of the courts deserve it. There are several causal links that affect people's confidence in the courts. People’s perception of the neutrality and objectivity of judges is such. In the case we are dealing with today, we are debating whether the use of clothing or other symbols that signal a political or religious affiliation should be prohibited as part of the appeal in Norwegian courts. The use of such symbols by the proposers would weaken people's confidence in the courts because it could raise questions about the neutrality of the courts. The majority of the Committee believes that the general rule in Norwegian working life should be that you can dress as you wish, and so on. is given the opportunity to indicate their religious or political identity. However, in some public authority roles, uniformation is considered necessary by the majority, which makes it difficult to combine a neutral role with garments and symbols that clarify an identity or religious affiliation. It is also worth noting that the majority of the Committee supports the government’s previous decision not to allow visible religious or political symbols in the context of the police uniform. The majority also agree with Minister of Justice Knut Storberget in his statement in a letter of 25 June 2010, where he says that ‘there is a serious concern that the use of religious headgear and symbols in police and judicial matters should be based on the same guidelines as possible’. Furthermore, the Minister of Justice said in the same letter that he would come back to Stortinget with this issue in an appropriate way. Many have reported that one of the proposals of the Labour Party Integration Committee, to be discussed at the National Assembly of the Labour Party now in April, suggests that judges should not be able to wear garments or symbols that make it clear that they are identity or religious. I support this position. Of course, I fully understand that judges have both religious beliefs and political opinions. It was just supposed to be missing! Personally, I have no reason to believe that a judge, for example, is a Muslim – or votes the Progress Party for that part – affects his objectivity or neutrality. Of course, judges have their beliefs or political convictions regardless of whether or not they are irritating religious and/or political symbols. But the day when a judge chooses to make his religious or political position visible through such visible symbols in court, in certain situations there may be doubt, or at worst a suspicion, as to whether the judge is really neutral. It can, in turn, help to weaken people's confidence in the courts. In my opinion, we have not been able to do that. In accordance with an ongoing political process in the Workers' Party, the Labour Party representatives want to await the outcome of the national meeting of the Committee on Integration's proposals before considering a possible ban on religious and/or political symbols as part of the Norwegian judicial appeal. With this in mind, the Labour Party supports the proposal of the majority of the Committee to add the draft representative to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2755	The first article already shows what a paradox this debate will be. I can join most of the arguments put forward by the rapporteur in this matter. The reason why I do so is that the arguments of the rapporteur are similar to those put forward by the proposers in the document. Then it becomes quite special to experience – once again today, I get to say – that the government parties here in this Chamber have intended to vote against a proposal that they are in favour of. It does not speak to the dignity of the Storting that we cannot implement the decisions of a majority in this Chamber. The court administration has come to an alarming lack of decision. A decision has been taken to ensure that no decision is taken. It has been said that the legislation on clothing today takes account of this issue. We know that a number of groups of different political and religious backgrounds are pressing for this to be incorporated into Norwegian public institutions, for example. in the police and the courts. It has therefore been stated by the Administrative Board of Justice that the Judge is to exercise his judgment in a manner which gives confidence and respect, and is to act in such a way that the neutrality of the Judge cannot reasonably be questioned. By not doing the same thing as the police and banning the use of hijab — as was the case in the police — in the courts, it means that it must be up to the individual judge to assess whether different political and religious symbols can be used in addition to the referee. Then we're at a dangerous point. On the day that it is up to the individual judge to decide this, I would like to see what the majority in this Chamber and the Minister of Justice intend to do, because we then have a situation in which Norwegian judges disapprove when they enter the courts. The clothing in Norwegian courts has a long tradition in our country, and that is exactly what guarantees the trust that the courts should have from people in our country. The judge shall appear neutral. The black jacket just means that the Party Party's process agent's dress code and personality are to be downplayed, because their arguments are to be decisive. There are values that are just being threatened by the court administration not being able to make a clear decision, and, obviously, not the Stortinget here today either. However, we have to take the clear signals that the rapporteur made here that both the case rapporteur and the Workers' Party's representatives, the country's Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has chaired the Workers' Party's Committee on Integration, agree with the proposers. Then we have to assume that there will be a proposal for the Storting with a legislative change just after the National Labour Party meeting in ours, so that the Stortinge can make a quick decision. This is a simple matter to carry out, so there is no need for major investigations etc. Finally, I would like to point out that Minister of Justice Storberget, in reply to questions to the undersigned on 25 June 2010, said that he would intervene in the decisions of the Court of Justice and consider what he would do. Now it's almost June 25, 2011, and there's nothing happening. I am referring here to the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2774	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2777	The right considers that the general rule in Norwegian working life should be so that you can dress as you wish and that it should be allowed to mark your religious identity. We have a long tradition of that in our culture. Christians mark their vision by wearing a cross. We have Sikhs carrying the turban, and Muslims use hijab. Allowing such markings harmonizes with the fundamental view of the Right in relation to the individual's freedom. However, within some public authority roles, it is important that the authorities stand up as neutral, i.e. that they do not give to know their religious faith or their political stand by their dress or by means of symbols. It has been decided that the police should not use religious symbols and headgear. The same should apply to judges. Judges shall exercise their judgments in a manner that provides confidence and respect. It follows from the ethical principles of judicial behaviour that a judge shall act in such a way that no question may be asked about the neutrality of the judge. As the rapporteur explained in his statement, the Workers' Party's Inclusion Committee, chaired by Jonas Gahr Støre, has also concluded that: ‘a natural continuation is that the auditorium, which represents the police in the courtroom, also does not use visible religious symbols and that judges do not bear such symbols.’ [[...]] This is very much in agreement with the right. From the point of view of power and authority, there should be as similar guidelines as possible as regards the use of religious symbols and headgear in police and courts. In the case of jury members and co-judges, they represent the population and society as a whole, including the religious diversity we have in Norway. Therefore, the same restrictions on dressing should not apply to them. They should get dressed as they wish, and be allowed to wear both cross and hirab. The right agrees with the intention of the proposal of the representative to prohibit the use of religious symbols as part of the court order, but refers to the advice of the Council of State that the Storting should instruct the Court of Justice in this matter. The Courts of Justice are independent and the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice is an independent body governed by its own Governing Board. The instruction authority of Stortinget vis-à-vis the Court of Justice should be regarded as a safety valve which should only be used in exceptional cases. So acute and serious, we don't think this case is. On the other hand, it is possible to achieve what we want by including a provision on the prohibition of the use of religious and political symbols in the Law of Justice. The Minister of Justice outlined such a solution in his response — to which reference was made — last June. Right wants to help us continue to experience value neutrality and objectivity in our meeting with the Norwegian judiciary. A minority proposal from the Right and the Progressive Party has already been put forward, asking the government to ‘promote a bill for the Stortinget that a provision prohibiting the use of religious and political symbols in the courts’. I would also encourage the position – and in particular the Workers' Party – to vote in favour of this proposal, which they clearly fully agree with, in the light of what has been said earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2808	Norway is a diverse country. All world religions and many cultures are represented here. It requires that we always work actively to get into a vital society where we all feel at home. It must be worked for all people, regardless of religion, race, political standing or sexual orientation, to have the same rights in our country. SV is known for its inclusive integration policy line. The Swedish integration policy platform, A third point of view: Different backgrounds – Common future, reads as follows: ‘SV considers that there should be very serious grounds for imposing restrictions on the right to wear garments or symbols expressing religious affiliation. There is nothing to suggest that a Jew, Muslim, Sikh, Christian or others who use religious garments or symbols cannot exercise their authority as a judge, police or other public official in a way that ensures legal certainty and non-discrimination. There should therefore be room for the use of religious garments which are not face-to-face and symbols adapted to the uniformation of the floors.» The government has not taken a decision as to whether it will promote a bill prohibiting political and religious symbols. As a coalition partner, SV will seriously and thoroughly participate in this debate and in the process, if and when it becomes relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2820	The ability to be neutral and objective is good properties for a judge. Religious or political symbols as part of the disguise may not be a sign that these properties are missing, but may undoubtedly contribute to such a doubt as to whether the judge is neutral or objective. It is important that those who face the trial have confidence in the system and in the judge. Visible political and religious symbols are, to my mind, most likely an obstacle to this. I think that is why there is an important debate we have for ourselves in this matter. I appreciate the approach taken by the Minister of Justice, that there is reason to have the same guidelines as possible when it comes to the use of religious headgear and symbols in the police and in the courts. So the question is, how should these guidelines possibly be given? In the proposal for a representative, the proposers originally entered in order for the King of the Council of State to instruct the Administration of the Court of Justice to amend the Code of Conduct. The government party in the committee believes that this is not the right way to do it, but that legal regulation, on the other hand, is a good solution. I allowed myself to mention one of the dilemmas that is close in relation to the matter we have for us tonight. In a multicultural society, it may be difficult to know what is right when it comes to imposing a ban on different religious expressions. "Liberal values" are funny words we like to use, but that can mean different things, depending on what we put in being liberal. Is it liberal to allow manners that may mean that some groups of men or women are oppressed in the name of religion, or is it more liberal to try to prevent this from happening, and rather to facilitate the most possible way of living their lives without being subjected to coercion? This is a big and important discussion that we're going to get into different contexts. In this specific case, there will also be differences of opinion about what is right and wrong, depending on what is involved in being liberal – and depending on how one considers the requirement that the judging power should stand up as being objective. The case spokesperson did well for the case and for the opinions of the majority. Now it remains for the government to decide whether to impose a law ban on the use of political and religious symbols for judges in court. The goal must be, as I see it, that those who meet in court, both defendants, insults, victims and relatives, should have confidence that the courts are objective and neutral in the judgmental practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2839	The Christian People's Party is concerned that in a multicultural and multi-religious society it must be unproblematic to be able to mark their religious faith and identity through the way a dress dresses, be it in everyday life or at work. Therefore, the general rule in Norwegian working life should also be that one can get to dress as one wants. However, in some public authority roles where uniformation is necessary, it will be difficult to combine a neutral role with the use of garments and symbols that clarify an identity or religious affiliation. The Christian People's Party has previously supported the fact that visible religious symbols should not be allowed on the police uniform, as the police have a special role as the only institution that can use power against civilians. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be as similar guidelines as possible as regards the use of religious symbols and headgear in the police and in the courts. Therefore, the Christian People's Party agrees with the majority of the Committee that the proposed representative here is not of such a nature that it is necessary to use the authority of instruction before the administration of the Court of Justice. At the same time, we agree that legal regulation is a more correct way of regulating the custody of judges in Norwegian courts, which has also been addressed by the proposers. The Christian People's Party is also very much in agreement with the minority's proposal in the committee position, where the government is asked to promote a bill for the Stortinge to include a provision in the Court's Law prohibiting the use of religious and political symbols in court. At the same time, however, the Christian People's Party supports the majority of the committee when it is stressed that this should not apply to fellow judges. Co-judges represent the defendant's peers and women and society as a whole, including the religious diversity found in Norway. That is why I would like to make a proposal that takes these two points into consideration. It's like: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal to ensure that professionals have neutral clothing in the courts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2853	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2856	I have to admit that I think this debate has been a bit strange. Sometimes we take up big, important things in this room that really rock people's everyday lives. Now we're discussing a completely theoretical issue. I have never been told any questions about whether some judges have ever passed the right judgment because they have been wearing something they should not wear. There is no citizen who has contacted me because he has been upset that a judge or a fellow judge has been wearing something they did not like. There has been no public debate in any medium related to a single incident that the cross or the hijab has led to someone having no confidence in the judgment decision. On me, this debate seems very strange. I think we're going to take the big, important discussions when ideologies and really principal things are going to travel. But here we have thrown ourselves into the rhetoric of the Progress Party and the Reality of the Advance Party and created a problem that does not exist. This has not been a problem, there has been no debate on this. No one has said that they have been misjudged because someone has been wearing something on their head or around their neck or wearing something that has provoked them. In fact, no one has had this as a problem. This is what the Progress Party has created as a problem – and everyone throws themselves at it! The second point is that when I learned my social skills and learned about the third division of power in Norway, we learned that the courts were a unit of their own. In fact, we're too busy to comment on things that lie in the courts. A State Council should not give an opinion on matters in the courts. We've learned a lot of driving rules about things we shouldn't care about in the courts. We're going to make the laws that the courts are going to judge -- that's our role. Then, all of a sudden, we have a debate about what they are going to wear in the courts; suddenly, it is so huge that the Norwegian Parliament is going to have a big debate about whether we are going to intervene with the courts in terms of suits, even though there is not one citizen who has raised questions about it. That's weird for me. This is a strange debate and yet another symbol that we have thrown ourselves at the great problems of the Progress Party. So the Center Party is trying out a liberal assessment and believes that a cross can suppress women. It's probably made up through history, but when they talk about it, I don't think they're talking about the cross or religious symbols of Christianity. I think it's true through the fact that the Center Party is really talking about Islam -- actually, that's what they meant when they talked about something that could be oppressive. So maybe it pops up in this debate that there's something below that nobody says. I think that now we should put a line over this and say that we should discuss real problems. If someone raises the question that they do not trust the Norwegian court because they have been convicted by a judge who has had a symbol that has made them untrustworthy of the decision they have taken, we will take the debate. But if we're going to use Stortingen's commanding authority over the courts as state power, yes, then I think it's going to be a more important, a bigger and a more real problem in our society before we actually do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2874	It is of great importance that the courts and their judges always have high confidence in society. Judges shall exercise their judgments in a manner that provides confidence and respect. A judge shall act in such a way as not to reasonably question the neutrality of the judge. In each case, the rules of the Court of Justice will also contribute to the full objectivity of the Court of Justice. Our courts and judges enjoy great trust and respect. At the same time, it is legitimate to discuss whether there is a need and a desire to add to today's objectivity rules. However, I would advise against the use of the instructional authority The King of State Council has been provided with the third paragraph of Section 33 of the Court Act, and will explain this in more detail. The Courts of Justice are independent and the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice is an independent body governed by its own Governing Board. The administration of the Court of Justice cannot be instructed by the Ministry of Justice. This division of responsibilities is laid down by Stortinget in the Law of the Court of Justice. Guidelines for the activities of the Court of Justice are normally provided by the Grand Duchy through budgetary proposals. In addition, the King of the Council of State may, as referred to above, decide on the activities in accordance with the provisions of the third paragraph of Section 33 of the Law of the Court of Justice, provided that the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice is given the opportunity to give its opinion in advance before the decision is taken. It is clear from the law-makers that this means of instruction must be seen as a safety valve to be used only in exceptional cases. It shall not be applicable as a general and general government authority to review the decisions of the Court of Justice. Until now, the power to take decisions on the activities of the courts has not been exercised. It would not be advisable to apply the authorising authority in this case. The Court of Justice has decided to confer on the independent body the power of the administration of the Court of Justice to lay down a regulation on appeals in the courts. In that case, the King of the Council of State should not instruct the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice on how to use their regulatory competence, in particular when the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice itself has given a thorough consideration and 14 June 2010 concluded that it is not amending the Code of Conduct of the Court of Justice. If a wish is to introduce a ban on the use of religious and political symbols in justice, this should be done through a legislative amendment. Then the Storting will also have the opportunity to address the fundamental questions that such a proposal could raise, through a broad and thorough discussion. As this assembly has already pointed out, the Labour Party's Committee on Integration has proposed a ban on the use of religious and political symbols in court, which proposes that the ban apply to professional judges, but not to felons. This proposal is to be examined at the National Labour Party meeting in April. The government will decide whether it will promote a bill prohibiting political and religious symbols in court once the government parties have settled the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2893	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2896	It is quite strange to witness a debate in which some representatives believe that the neutrality displayed by the judges is of no importance. But we'll have to do that in a later article. I could imagine asking the Minister of Justice if she agrees with his government colleague Jonas Gahr Støre's statement that it is not natural to wear political or religious garments as well as the referee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2903	It would be a good idea to know what the Minister of Justice has said. There's nothing to add. It is also known, as I have already explained, that the National Assembly of the Workers' Party will deal with the position of the Committee on Integration. And as I also said, it's not natural for me to go deeper into this issue until the government has had the opportunity to consider whether to present a bill to ban political and religious symbols in court.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2910	I note that the Minister of Justice wrote in reply to me on 15 June 2010 that he is thinking about the matter. I record that the Council of State is still thinking about the matter, even though it is now approaching a year since that answer. But I could imagine hearing what the councillor of Faremo is going to do if there's a judge tomorrow who hates a hat, a big cross, a hijab or a kalot. What will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2917	I have carefully explained the possibility of instruction contained in the law. I am pleased that the representative underlines the value of the good idea, that this is a lot of thinking, and that it has actually been announced by the Minister of Justice what approach has been taken to these issues. The Government will review this issue after considering, inter alia: The national meeting of the Labour Party has dealt with the Committee on Integration's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2924	I would also like to ask the Council of State why the position and the Council of State cannot support the minority's proposal that a ban on the use of religious and political symbols be included in the Law of the Court of Justice. Here, the minority has just done as the Minister of Justice suggested in his reply, to do it this way, rather than directing the Court of Justice to court.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2929	This is a matter that has been served by a good and thorough process, which is therefore set up as I have previously explained, and where I do not see that the presentation of this proposal for a representative suggests that the original plan is changed. This question will therefore be addressed to the assessment of the government after the national meeting, which I have now mentioned several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2934	I would like to know if the Minister of Justice can answer as to how real and provocative this problem is for the Norwegian judiciary. How many judges in Norway today have the Minister of Justice been aware that questions have been raised about, given that some of the judges have had symbols that have led to people not having confidence in the judgment given?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2939	There are many questions in this room that are characterised as important for reasons other than counting the number of individuals who may have raised specific issues with parties and individual representatives. But what the representative's question stresses is that this is also a valuable issue that has been served by a broad and thorough review. That is why this government will therefore address the question of evaluation after the thorough treatment as, among other things, The national meeting of the Workers' Party will give rise to the decision of the Integration Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2944	Then I would like to repeat the question: Is the Minister of Justice aware of one single case in which one has not trusted the decision taken in the Court of Justice, because some judges have had something to do with the lack of trust in them? It can be answered yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2950	No, I'm not. But I am also not aware whether there are actually some of the judges who have passed judgment with e.g. one of these dresses on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2955	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2960	This has been a funny debate. First, we are told that very many in this Chamber – and a clear majority – agree with the proposers in the proposals made by the proposers. We take that positively, and we expect that, in less time, there will be a proposal from the government that prohibits clothing in Norwegian courts other than the black coat for which there has been a very long tradition. Then I register – and that’s the more fun side of this debate – that the representative Trine Skei Grande, who has also been sitting on the Stortinget for a relatively long time, is trying to remember the social sciences at school, and the textbooks that were then. Then it may be that the representative Trine Skei Grande remembers poorly from the social sciences, or after her years at Stortinget she has not yet understood the function of Stortinge in the Norwegian community. Yes, it's true that the courts are independent of the Storting, but that's the court's judicial activity. It is quite clear that the Storting must be able to have an opinion on the administration of the courts. That is why every year the Stortinget grants a budget to the courts and that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights write long observations on it. Then I have registered that many believe that Stortinget cannot instruct the court administration. That's a point of view that's wrong. Then there is a lack of understanding of Storting's function and role in society. When the court administration became independent, it was not independent of the Storting, but it was independent of the day-to-day management of the Minister of Justice. So where the boundary goes with the Ministry of Education to the Court of Justice or other types of administrative bodies, it's just the Storting itself that can decide, and that question hasn't the Stortinge, as far as I've seen, ever discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2971	The left-wing Trine Skei Grande has not registered that there has been a single issue on this issue, and I am also not aware that there has been any conviction on our part with a professional judge, for example. i hijab. But there is still reason to believe that there will be a current problem if not too long. In my opinion, it is thus much better to establish a possible ban on religious and political symbols as part of the jurisdictional line is agreed in advance. Then we'll have to take the debate on a principle basis, in a proper way, and then we don't let the individual become the subject of a happy mob, as it will be. The crest can suppress women's people, listening to what Skei Grande said. I didn't get it all with me – before she said that the Center Party is actually talking about Islam. No, I'm not talking about Islam as religion, but of course it's coerced to use hijab relevant to what I'm referring to instead. Nor is it clearly rooted in Islam as a religious doctrine, but it is a repressive practice that cannot say that any voluntary use of the cross is. Now I want to point out that I am an atheist myself, and that I have no strong feelings for neither the cross nor other religious symbols. But I have a definite view that most of those who meet in court, either one is a Christian, Muslim or atheist, will think that there is much more confidence in a professional judgment with a neutral appearance than a judgment that has political or religious symbols.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2980	I have no intention of making the evening long, but I must say that I am a little surprised especially at Klinge's last post, where she assumes that all use of hijab is female repressive. I wonder how many she's been talking to that uses hijab. I've talked to very conscious, very self-conscious, very self-determining women who do. I think maybe it's an exercise that could be healthy trying sea ice. Second, it's not like I'm muttering back to the textbooks. I have taught in this subject, and I actually have a university degree in it. I don't doubt the Grand Duchy's right to do so, but I doubt it's important that the Grand Duchy does so, when we see that we have a court administration that has had its own legislation for this, a separate body to decide so far. Perhaps we can be confident that that body, when the problem arises, actually makes wise decisions. Why is there a reason why we should now suddenly have mistrusted our courts? Why is it that we have suddenly distrusted the body that has set the judges' robes in impeccable times? Well, the reason why this is happening is that the Progress Party here has created a conflict that everyone is going to face as a big problem, sail if the problem doesn't exist, sail if the issues aren't there. It is an incredibly fascinating debate for me, but it also shows how far you have come by having the Progress Party in the Norwegian Parliament that is so dedicated to combating Muslim symbols. We have had the debate earlier today, but then the majority of us decided wisely against the Progress Party. We've had the same thing about them wanting to control what Muslim women go in the streets, and we also see that it pop up in the Center Party, sometimes in small bluffs. Here I think some people sometimes have to say that the emperor doesn't wear clothes, and here it's actually so that the emperor doesn't wear hijab. It's actually not a problem. This is no problem. I have great confidence in Norwegian courts making wise decisions. I have great confidence that the body that is actually set to do this governed by Norwegian courts will make wise decisions in this area based on what Norwegian citizens want. It seems to me that I must also be told from this pulpit, and I find it strange that no more parties are saying it. I can also ask questions about whether the representative Klinge represents the representative Klinge, the government or the centre party, because I understand that there are also three different positions in this matter. So I believe this has also been a strange debate, but perhaps in a slightly different way than the representative of Kielland Asmyhr believes that there has been a strange debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2991	I know the representative Trine Skei Grande as a principal and capable debater, to whom I look up, and in many ways I think it is good that the representative Skei Grande promises the principle in the matter. But when she accuses anyone who doesn't agree with her, to dictate a problem and let herself be torn by the rhetoric of the Advancement Party, I need to defend my own party's position. Although there have been no individual cases in which one has met with judges who have used hijab, or judges who have been dismissed and complained about the use of hijab or who have been suspicious of neutrality, it is in fact the case that the court administration has dealt with the question and said that they do not want a ban, and thus it is considered that it is permissible to use hijab in the courts. This raises the issue. If you're going to be principled when the question is raised, at least I feel that I'm going to decide in principle on the question. As long as I don't think it's a violation of the fact that the Storting is acting in front of the courts or feels it's dangerous to go in for a bill that's in charge, I see it as a matter of neutrality for the Christian People's Party in the police, and the same rules apply to the courts. That is why I have no problem promoting my own proposal, which is precisely to ensure that the courts are neutral.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e2998	This was a debate that also contained a principle approach to the principle, if it can be said that way. For the Right, I want to repeat the good points of our speech in the matter, that for the Right, this is about making the neutrality of the authorities, as it were, when they exercise authority on behalf of the community. That's our approach – that's what it's said once again. The real reason I took the floor was more to explain the voting, when the time comes. The Right Party and the Progressive Party will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3005	This will help to make it possible to express its views in the context of the vote. The next speaker is Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. He has had the word twice before and thus gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3010	It was the representative of Trine Skei Grande who made me speak, because when the representative of Skei Grande says that this is not a problem, it is a positive mistake. All those who have participated in the social debate in the last few years see that there are many groups now pushing for changes to important parts of Norwegian social institutions, including the United Kingdom. police and courts. So during our hearing in the Justice Committee, we had several groups inside who thought it was natural to change the clothing to Norwegian judges. That's what we want to take a strong distance from with this proposal, and make it clear for once that the clothing with which we have a long tradition is to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3020	I have to ask almost questions about what reality the representative Trine Skei Grande from the Left lives in, when she hasn't got it with most of the others, including from other political parties afterwards, seems to be opening her eyes to, namely that Norwegian society is under pressure from some cultures – from some immigrant groups – that want to change Norwegian society. Then you can do it like left. Then you can meet it by giving in and never setting limits — by being naive in its approach to that meeting. The Progress Party has chosen to take a clear stand. We have chosen to stand firm that this society is founded on some completely basic, fundamental values. One of them is not to mix politics and religion with the activities of the courts. It's a principle for a good legal state. We've taken a clear stand. I feel that the Left, and partly also the SV, have chosen to take an elusive position. In the borderline that must happen as a result of the large-scale immigration that Norway has experienced in the last ten years, we need to draw some limits on driving rules that should be common to all people living in this society. This is a natural consequence of that. The people like to refer to as the Islamization of Norwegian society – that some cultures and religions take a lot of space – is a fact many outside this hall relate to. But I understand that for the Left and the SV, there are non-existent issues. Then I have to say that it is a little strange to hear both in this debate and in a debate earlier today on hijab, that this term is used as a'religious garment'. Well, the hijaben is far more than just a religious garment. It's also a religious political uniform, a mark that Islamists use. It's just to see the popularity that the hijab has gained after the revolution in Iran, the Muslim brothers and the growth there, and how the use of hijab has spread. It's far more than just a religious garment, it's also a political symbol, and as such it's directly wrong to compare it to a turban or a cross. It's something far more than that. You also have to start to take the consequences of that in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3030	Step Skei Grande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3033	I'm glad Per-Willy Amundsen took the floor, because then people hear what party they belong to, when they sit here in the debate. This is about something completely different. This is about constructing a problem. This doesn't really exist, but in the world of the Progress Party, it's useful to have that line of conflict. It is useful to believe that there are groups that are pushing themselves into the Norwegian judiciary, that there are people who are almost on the verge of taking over the Norwegian judges, that there are people who are going in to perpetuate Norwegian society, destroy the Norwegian values, put something on their heads and get into Norwegian courts. But it doesn't exist, people! This doesn't exist, President! This is not a problem in Norwegian society. It is made by the Progress Party, and you heard through the Per-Willy Amundsen argument how this should enter Norwegian society as a problem, but this problem does not exist!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3038	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3056	The Alvdal thing that's being referred to here is not as topical in the media right now. Now there's quite another thing that the media is busy about, but yet, the challenge of what I'm dealing with in the interpellation is as current as it was then. As I say in the interpellation, we have freedom of the press in Norway. We have a free and independent press. We're going to appreciate that, and we're going to be happy for that. We also have a press that is very good at assessing what should be written, what images should be taken and printed, and what should be published in the public. But it turns out sometimes, for example. in the case I refer to, that the press might go a little far. For me it would be interesting to read about that case in Alvdal no matter how detailed it was. It's a bad thing; it's a rough thing. These are serious crimes that we prefer not to have. I do not need – at least not personally – to read about all the details. I do not need to read about relatives or victims who burst into tears in the courtroom. There is a lot I don't need – at least not personally – to know. The Children's Ombudsman, Reidar Hjermann, also delivered an opinion when this matter went on. He believes that the courts should limit the possibility for journalists to refer from the case in Elverum. He also says that this case is a good example of the need for clearer guidelines. He believes that there is no reason for the press to be present when, for example. in the courtroom, video films are shown from assault. He also believes that in this case the press/media has not shown their trust worth it. What this is about are often kids. It's kids who are in a very vulnerable situation. There are young people who have been subjected to grotesque abuse and who will then again experience these abuses. Some professionals say that kids have a good idea of being allowed to come with their version, get the right to empty, get the right to be believed. It's also important for the kids. It is important that they are believed in such matters, that there is a legal system, that there are people around them who believe that this has happened, and that they are allowed to tell their versions. But that doesn't mean that I and a whole bunch of people in this country need to know details about it, need to know who these people are, and need to know what kind of mood these people are in when they're in the courtroom. It is significant that Section 131a of the Law of the Court of Justice states: «In the course of criminal proceedings, photography, film recording and radio or television recordings shall be prohibited. It shall also be prohibited to photograph or record the intentional or judgment on the way to or from the court meeting or while staying in the building where the court meeting is held, if he does not consent.’;» I agree. It should be that when you are targeted on a matter, you are not convicted, but if you are also convicted on a matter, you still have a certain claim not to be presented in the public light. We can agree on that or not, but that's the way it is. But what surprises me when I read the law of justice is that there is not a single word about victims or relatives, in that way. It actually means, without me knowing if there's been a big problem, that photographers and journalists can film and take pictures of relatives in the courthouse or on their way to and from the courthouse. As I said, I don't know if this is a big problem, but if it's a problem, we have at least no law that prevents journalists from doing so. It is also stated in Section 125 of the Law of the Court of Justice: ‘The court may, by judgment, decide that a court meeting shall be held in whole or in part in closed doors, b. where privacy or honesty so requires, i.e. where a term is less than 18 years old, an insult shall require it or a sight or witness shall request it for reasons which the court considers adequate.’;» [[...]] [[...]] That is, it is on that basis that the court can say that the meeting should be held for closed doors. In particular: The Alvdal case we saw that the court closed the doors, but that journalists still got to be there and attend movies that showed the abuses against these kids. The issue I address in the interpellation has been raised by several people, including, as I mentioned, the Children's Ombudsman. It evolves to become a bigger and bigger problem the more tabloid the press becomes. I am not saying that we should have a ban on the press in court – for all things. In most cases, the press has been good at assessing the situation and has been good at taking account of the different parties in the courtroom, but it would have been good, as I also write in the interview, to hear if the Council of State has made any sense about this issue, and if the Council of State considers that the court order takes sufficient account of the parties involved – and especially those I mentioned – against Section 131, which says something about, among other things. photography in the courtroom. I hope that I can get an adequate and good response from the Council of State, and I hope that we can have a debate about this, so that we can put on the agenda something that has to do with vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3096	The topic addressed by the interpellant illustrates the potential conflict between the principle of disclosure and the legal protection of individuals against undesirable publicity. Dissemination of information by the press about what is happening in the courtroom may represent the greatest burden of being involved in criminal proceedings. In the case of insults, the media review may be seen as a strengthening and repetition of the acts involved in the criminal proceedings. The media therefore have a great responsibility for how they choose to describe this type of case. At the same time, it will not always be in the interests of the victims that the media fail to refer from the cases either. In some cases it may be that the victims themselves want cases brought to light, and in this sense media press coverage can be a good tool. I want to make it clear that I can't comment on the Alvdal case in concrete terms. It is a fundamental principle that the courts are independent in their judicial function, and as Minister of Justice, it is wrong to comment on a particular case that is pending before the courts. It is important for me to ensure that the independence of the courts is respected. The principle of public access is regarded as an important guarantee for the safeguarding of justice and is also enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. Public access to justice provides an opportunity to control and criticise the actors. First and foremost, it is considered a guarantee against infringement by the courts or prosecutors. It can also be seen as a guarantee against discrimination in favour of each intended person. Although this does not have such a real meaning for us in today's conditions, publicity in any case helps to increase confidence that everything goes right and proper. Public disclosure is also a prerequisite for the press to be able to communicate what is happening in Norwegian courts to most people. The fact that the press mentions the matter and, where appropriate, the angle given to the matter can undoubtedly be seen as a burden for the parties involved – with a view, insult and relatives. The Court Act contains rules that balance transparency with other overriding interests. The Court of First Instance may, inter alia: decide that a court meeting shall be held in whole or in part for closed doors if, for example: the interests of privacy or honesty so warrant. Furthermore, in certain cases, the Court of First Instance may, in whole or in part, prohibit the public reproduction of the negotiations if the conditions for holding the proceedings for closed doors otherwise exist. For the sake of order, I also mention that the Law of the Court of Justice allows the court to prohibit the public reproduction of all or part of the court decision if privacy considerations or the ignominious behaviour require it. It is the right to decide on the application of these rules in each case. The interests of offended and relatives will be taken care of by the aid lawyer, but the prosecution authority can also take care of the interests through, for example: to ask for closed doors. In my view, it is important to ensure that particular attention is paid to children who have been subjected to abuse. In this respect, I would like to mention that the government has invested heavily in the establishment of a nationwide system of children's housing, which is now located in Bergen, Tromsø, Kristiansand, Trondheim, Hamar, Oslo and Stavanger. Children’s homes ensure that justice can meet their children in a more gentle manner, while helping to ensure a good and complete provision of assistance and treatment in one place. As I was at the outset, the press has an independent responsibility for what they choose to publish. It has not been given that the press may or shall publish all that it is aware of, even if a court meeting or a court decision is public. The Norwegian Press Association has adopted the Varsom poster, which contains press ethics rules to be followed by both editors and the individual journalist. Furthermore, I would also like to point out that the Editorial plaque, adopted by the National Association of Media Companies and Norwegian Editorial Association, shows that the editor in charge has personal responsibility for the content of the media. The editor’s poster also shows that the editor is to ensure freedom of expression and, to the best of his ability, to work for what serves society in his/her opinion. This is an obligation. On 17 July 2009, the government appointed the so-called Media Responsibility Committee. The selection includes, among others: mandated to assess the criminal liability of the editor and the need for specific legal rules to ensure the privacy of individuals in relation to the media. The committee will give its opinion to the Ministry of Culture next month, i.e. in April. The Alvdal case illustrates the timeliness of these aspects of the mandate of the sample, and the investigation will therefore be very useful for further work on this particular issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3131	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, and I understand, of course, that the Council of State cannot comment on the Alvdal case in particular. The case in Alvdal was included as an example of how the press can behave in such cases. As the Council of State says, it is important that the media refer from legal cases. They must and must do so in order to comply with the legal principles we have in Norway. The question then is how detailed should they refer to. The representative is also aware of the guidelines that the media have in this way, both the Varsom poster and others, but we know that the press is becoming more and more tabloid, and to sell and be the one that has the best stories, it is often drawn longer and longer. It is important that we have transparency in the courtroom, so that we can ensure legal certainty in a good way, and it is also important that we have a court order that balances it with safeguarding all the rights and obligations of the different parties in a courtroom. The Council of State was concerned that we have a balanced court law, but my question, and then again with reference to Section 131a of the Court Act, is: Is the court law balanced enough to meet the various challenges that may arise in a courtroom where especially young people are involved? Because it's a special situation when you have legal cases where kids are a party, where kids are the victim, or where kids are related for that matter. Then it is important that we take care of the interest of these kids. They're very vulnerable, they're in a special situation, they have a different need than the law-abiding and not law-abiding adult citizens have. So I ask questions about whether the court law is balanced enough, and whether the council agrees that one should consider whether something should be done with the court law, so that the interests and consideration of these kids are properly cared for. But I am pleased with the attitude that the Council of State has towards it, and that the Council of State also sees this as part of the challenge that we have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3142	I absolutely believe that the interpellant here has raised a very important issue, and that there is an important issue of debate on these issues, which is also regulated by the Law of the Court of Justice. These are rules of law designed to give more consideration and to balance transparency with other overriding interests. At the moment, I do not see the need for changes in the law of the courts, but I think it is important to note also the debate in which the Children's Ombudsman has engaged, not least in matters relating to children. And although it is wrong for me, as Minister of Justice, to comment on how the court, prosecution authority or aid lawyers should ask themselves these kinds of questions in specific cases, I think it is important to have a discussion on these matters again, which we also contribute to this Chamber in the discussion we have today. I am also aware that the Children’s Ombudsman has asked questions about the role of the Court of Justice in these cases, and where, of course, like the Ministry of Justice, the Court of Justice does not have a mandate to change the caselaw on the application of the rules of the Court of Justice. This is what the courts do, and because of their independent role. I also want to point out the responsibility that lies on the press itself, and look forward to the investigation that will come from the Media Liability Committee. I also believe that this setting will give rise to a broad debate on these types of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3153	I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up a topical issue. The role of the press is important. It is both good and challenging – challenging because we know that media coverage of the case can be very difficult for the offended and their relatives, and good because it shows what is actually going on in society. Openness around matters such as: The Alvdal case makes us have to go an extra round with our sails and consider how we can work and prevent better. As politicians, we need to ask ourselves how we facilitate the situation in order to prevent children from being subjected to abuse without intervention. Without media and transparency around matters, sadly, domestic violence and child abuse become invisible. This type of crime does not receive the same attention as other forms of crime, such as robbery, theft and rape. Violence and assault within the house's four walls is perhaps the most serious crime we're facing. It is a form of crime which, in some cases, is to be regarded as torture, which can destroy the lives of those at risk of violence, and which also has great social costs. It's private, there's something you don't talk about, and maybe you don't want to know about it either. It's kind of hard to deal with. There is a great responsibility on the press in such cases. It is a challenging task to balance what is the most important task of the press, namely to refer to what is happening during the court hearings, to balance the additional burdens of insults when monstrous abuses are repeated repeatedly during various witness hearings. Here it is quickly done for the media to go too far in eagerness to come up with the most selling arguments. In this context, there is also a short way to pre-judge the defendants. I remember that it is still such that the defendant is to be regarded as innocent until the verdict is dropped. It's a good principle, even in a matter where, according to the media, there were obvious perpetrators and the guilt question was settled at an early stage. In this case, which was repeatedly mentioned in the media, over several months in advance of the proceedings, it may have provided for some influence and prejudice. I'm not saying that this was an intentional influence, but with such grotesque descriptions that appeared in the press, it wouldn't be unnatural if people both in court and out in the population were slightly affected. On the other hand, the court opens up as much openness as possible. This gives the press freer ropes, but they still have both the care-pad and the Editor's poster as a guide. We are hanging over both openness and freedom of expression as two pillars of democracy. These are important foundations that must not be laid too far, nor in a courtroom. In conclusion, I would like to point out that transparency about infringement cases requires a conscious and responsible press. I am therefore pleased that today we are taking up the debate on where the limits should go for how detailed the press should be in its coverage of such cases. The press coverage of these kinds of cases must be based on the fact that insulting should not have to experience the coverage of the press as enough interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3172	Then I understand that this matter is about whether the time has come to see if there is a need for a more fine-masked network for what is being referred from the courts of the Kingdom. In my opinion, it is an important democratic process that there is a good public record from the courts in the form that the press is doing its job and explaining what is happening there. It's worth a rule of law, and it's important for democracy. So in my opinion, the time is not in, based on this specific case, to draw the conclusion that we have to make the net more fine-masked. On the contrary, I would argue that the press in general shows a great degree of self-justice compared to the fact that you do not cross the threshold of prejudice. There may be a difficult limit from a journalist's point of view, because there may be a lot of exciting news in the angle of the matter, but both the press itself and the parties to the case have the opportunity to exercise a self-justice on behalf of the vulnerable parties in the case, which I think is a good quality in the Norwegian public. The Children’s Ombudsman is mentioned. If I don't remember completely wrong, the starting point was that the Children's Ombudsman had a problem with the child protection explanation in this case being presented for open doors. In this particular case, I think it was a wise decision of the court that it was made for open doors, because it just made the role of public utility visible, or perhaps even, in this case – it gets time to show – whether it was a lack of role the public utility had played. And it's a kind of thing that both the press and the public should be able to bear that it's being thrown a critical light on. But the last words are not necessarily said in this debate. Therefore, it is important that the question is raised, so that we can check out at critical points and milestones if there is a need to take some steps. But I support the presentation by the Council of State, that there are good mechanisms here, there is an openness that strengthens democracy, that strengthens the rule of law, and that is a quality sign of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3179	First I have to say that the previous speaker, the representative of Werp, had a very good speech on the subject. The theme that the interpellant addresses is an important and serious theme. But it is not easy to define the role of the Storing in relation to this problem. It is not hard to understand that it must be particularly stressful for vulnerable people, whether they are adults or young people, as in the much-mentioned Alvdal sac, when they have a traumatic history of assault beyond the columns of public reading in the mass media. I have reacted by reading at least possible about this, because it makes me sick, and because I think I have nothing to do with knowing all the bad details. At the same time, it is well enough for more people to know what kind of bad deeds they can do, making us better able to understand that we need to be more on guard and register whether people in our own circle, or in our own village, are also being attacked. We have to be better at picking up the signal and notifying the child protection or the police. This may lead to the detection and punishment of several attackers. Not least, we can save fellow humans from abuse situations and help them get a better life. The media has a great responsibility for how they present these issues. They do not need to be smeared as much as possible to sell as many newspapers as possible. They have to make ethical assessments of what's right and wrong. But the court also has the power to close the doors or prohibit that intimate and infringing information that appears in a court case is given to the public. In the next month, the Media Responsibility Selection will provide an option that includes: individuals' privacy will be discussed. This is relevant for the further work on the problem we are debating today. The development we are currently seeing may not be the best if the aim is to preserve privacy and prevent media attention from becoming a major additional burden for those who have experienced an abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3196	There have been several good comments on this matter. There's an understanding that the pressure we have is good, but we see that evolution can go in the wrong direction. We have a responsible press, as the representative Lillehovde did, but the tabloidisation can go a little further. There hasn't been a big challenge yet, but it's starting to come -- we see the contours of it. Lillehovde also says that in the case of those who are targeted, it is important that they are innocent until the opposite is proven, and that one cannot be influenced by what the press writes, because it creates a pressure against legal actors. The right is good to consider such things, but it is not easy not to be affected by what the press writes. It has also been mentioned here that it is important that we have good public records from the courtroom. Of course it's important. It's having such good reports that characterizes a good legal state. But this applies not only to this matter, but also to other issues in which we see a trend that the so-called referendums – not the public records, but the press’s rendering – are the limits. So the boundaries are getting more and more messed up, and they say stop now, or if we're going to wait until the knit gets to the point where it's jerking. The size has an important role to play in such matters. Firstly, they are role models, but we are also legislators. We are the ones who decide which laws to have in this country. And finally, I want to refer to Section 131a of the Court Act, which says clearly: ‘It shall also be prohibited to photograph or record the intentional or judgment on the way to or from the legal meeting.’;» But it is not prohibited to photograph victims or relatives in or to and from the courtroom. My opinion is that that's not right. Sids and doomsdays have a protection by law. I believe it would be right that victims and relatives through the law also have such protection. So I find it regrettable that no initiative is taken to change the law in this way. But I am glad that both the Council of State and others believe it is important that we follow up this matter and have an alert eye for what is happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3210	I would also like to thank you for the debate. It illustrates many aspects of a very demanding and important theme, where responsibility lies with several parties. We've spent time discussing the role of the media. The care of the victims is important, and the judges judge. They weigh a number of considerations when deciding whether or not to make closed-door decisions, the possibility of reproduction or prohibition. When it comes to the issue of borders, there are also issues of social and legal development, in addition to the eyes that see them. I'm sure if we had discussed what was the limits of honesty a few years ago, the picture would look different than what we consider acceptable today. I also think that illustrates the importance of having a regular debate on this issue and of involving stakeholders with a role. Because it's just constantly challenging each other on what's acceptable, that we're involved in giving it a little bit of guidance to the judges who are faced with the concrete balances in the individual cases. So with that I thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3220	That being the case, it is no. 13 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3236	It's late in the evening, but it's nice to see the Council of State holding out. I have invited to a debate on paperless, and in particular the group of paperless people who are not forced to return. Our task as politicians is to make laws and govern the country after them, but we must at all times dryly discuss whether the laws we have serve society or not. Several speakers for the government have said several times that the law should be the same for everyone on the issue that we are debating today. I think we all agree on that. But we politicians can't hide us either behind the law or the foreign administration, for that matter, in relation to the group of people we're talking about here. I have also registered that representatives of the government do not like the term ‘paperless’. They think it's inaccurate. Rather, the government likes to use the term ‘illegal’ or ‘illegal’ immigrants. In this debate, I would like to highlight part of this group, namely those who have been in Norway for very many years, and especially those who have nowhere else to go – yes, those who cannot even force the police to return. So we're talking about a number of people between 1,500 and 3,000 who, for different reasons, can't be forced to return. What the law already says today is that the administration can provide humanitarian accommodation ‘with special attention’. Such consideration may be linked to Norway, but practice has nevertheless become that what is considered to be illegal residence in the country is not assessed. In order to change this, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act, so that all residence in the country is also relevant. One condition should then be that the person is not convicted of criminal acts. In addition, the Regulation should specify that immigration-regulating considerations should be given less weight in matters relating to children or in matters relating to them have come to Norway as a child. Among those who are in the group that we're talking about now, there are also families of children. In Norway today, in fact, we punish children for choices made by their parents. The UDI promoted a concrete proposal for legalisation drawn up in consultation with the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights at the University of Oslo in April 2003. UDI’s proposal was that ‘residence may be granted five years after final rejection if there is no doubt as to identity and eight years in case of doubt’. I would just like to take the opportunity to quote from the UDI report on long-term reception of April 2003: ‘At some point, it may be asked whether the authorities are given a responsibility to cut through and set a line. Whatever the original reason, the timing itself will raise questions about the relationship of authorities with human rights. These must be understood in such a way that, after a certain period of time, there is a need for a reassessment in which more emphasis is placed on new elements such as: fitness, rooting and adaptation to a local environment, established close relationships, training and education, local environment support, etc.’.» Do you think it's time to brush the dust of this proposal here again? In its fourth report on Norway, published in February 2009, the Council of Europe Commission on Racism and Intolerance, ECRI, strongly recommended that the Norwegian authorities should facilitate the granting of a residence permit for non-citizens who, for practical reasons, cannot return to their country of origin. Such a strong recommendation would suggest that the Norwegian authorities would change the law, or in some way clear up the situation. But the answer is provisional: return, return, return. There are at least two groups of undetectable immigrants. In one group, those that are really untraceable are, for example: Palestinians from Gaza, where the border is closed, and Somalia. The second group is those who are from countries without return agreements, regimes such as Iran, Ethiopia and Eritrea. Here we know that the government is working to establish a return agreement. But the question we have to ask ourselves is, because these return agreements are not in place, and you've been working on it for a long time, and you don't know how long it will take: how long are these people going to have to put their lives on hold? That should also be addressed in this debate. Should it not be that asylum seekers who have not been able to return to Norway five years after the final refusal may be allowed to regularise their stay in Norway? Wouldn't it have been possible with criteria such as that the identity is known and that the person concerned is not convicted of criminal acts? In addition, with a five-year limit, you will normally have been here for seven years or more, including the length of the procedure. The scheme would involve a long and difficult waiting time that would not make Norway more attractive to asylum seekers who would expect to abuse the scheme. The requirements for cooperation around identity and flawless conduct will prevent possible crime. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be room for a solution here. I do not believe that resolving the situation that this group is in will lead to Norway being flooded with a new asylum stream. There are other countries in Europe that have made such a regularisation. Sweden carried out extensive regularisation in 2006, when 17 000 rejected asylum seekers were allowed to stay after a new examination of the application. Belgium carried out its most recent regularisation in 2009, when around 25 000 people stayed. At the latest regularisation in the Netherlands, in 2007, about 30 000 stay. It is also worth noting that other countries besides the regularisations also have basic provisions that differ significantly from Norwegian approaches. For example, in France, 18-year-olds in France are normally entitled to French citizenship if they have attended school in France for at least three years. The Maria Amelie case put the situation of the paperless on the agenda. Organisations in this field have estimated that there are from 1500 to 3000 people who have been in Norway without a legal stay for more than five years. We are talking about a group of people who, for various reasons, cannot be forced to return. According to the 'no human beings are illegal' campaign, these persons cannot be forced to return with the Foreign Office of the Police. Thus, people are in a limbo situation where their subjective perception of their situation in their home country means that they do not dare to return voluntarily, while Norwegian authorities cannot force them to return to their home country. Most other European countries have had different legal systems for long-term residents without legal residence. Norway has not had any. That's why I ask the Council of State in this interview: how do the Council of State view the situation of the paperless, and how do the Council of State view the possibility of resolving this situation for the paperless? I know that this is not a simple debate, and there are rarely simple answers. But at least my call is that we look at what was UDI's proposal in 2003, which is about regularising people who had been in Norway for a long time. We're also talking about families with children here. So there are children who have either been taken with their parents, or who are born in Norway, who are in this limbo situation. I think we should do something about this, and I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3277	Everyone seeking protection in Norway is given a thorough and individual treatment of their case. Those at risk of persecution and abuse in their country of origin are protected in Norway. Last year, UDI and UNE were granted protection for over 4 700 people. The UDI and UNE also assess in each case whether there are strong human considerations or links with the State that require authorisation even if the conditions for protection are not met. This also applies where the non-resident has received a final rejection, but subsequently the UN requests that the rejection decision be converted. Last year, UDI and UNE granted humanitarian authorisations to more than 900 people. All applicants for protection in Norway shall be assessed in accordance with the same legislation. Nothing is the same, but the law is the same for everyone. If you do not fulfil the conditions of stay, you are obliged to leave the country. In order to maintain trust in the system, it is important that we have legislation that takes care of non-discrimination and does not have rules that encourage people to stay despite final rejection. For the work of the Foreign Service to function, it is necessary that non-residents applying for this purpose cooperate with the authorities. This also applies in the final phase of the application process. More people live without a legal stay in Norway, e.g. upon final rejection of the application for protection. Others travel illegally into the country without applying for any permission. Some of these stay here for many years. Before I go into the problem around this group, I would first like to make it clear that I understand the interpellant there that he means people without legal residence in Norway with ‘paperless’. This group must not be confused with persons who are missing ID papers or other documents from their home country. Many who live without a residence permit in Norway have ID documents. For those who do not, it is often possible to obtain it from Norway via the home country’s embassy or consulate. Persons without legal residence in Norway are a composite group. In some, very few, cases, the stranger cannot return home even if he wishes. We have seen the need to grant a residence permit in Norway in such a situation, provided that practical obstacles do not exist to the foreigner himself. We therefore have a provision in the Foreign Regulation which ensures humanitarian residence in these cases. However, the conditions here are that the foreigner has contributed to the return and that there is no doubt about the identity of the applicant. However, the majority of those in Norway without a permit are not in such a situation. The interpellant refers to persons who cannot be forced to return by the Foreign Office of the Police. The reasons why some cannot be forced to return include: that it is often not possible to issue travel documents without the individual contributing, or that the authorities of the applicant’s home country only receive returnees on a voluntary basis. As a rule, there is nothing to prevent the foreigner from handling the necessary papers and returning them on his own. Where, after a thorough and legal examination of the case, the foreigner has found that there is no need for protection, the applicant may not choose whether to comply with the decision or not. Let me remind you that the government is constantly working to provide the best possible facilities for voluntary returns, which is the best for all parties. With IM as an operator, we offer a well-organised return facility that is free of charge for the applicants. The interpellant calls for a solution for persons residing here without authorisation. I believe the solution is assisted return to the home country with reintegration support. There is no doubt that it is a great burden to be in a situation where life is put on hold, and especially for children, this is an unsustainable existence. Children are not guilty of choosing their parents, but they often suffer harm. Although today’s legislation and practices pay particular attention to children’s relationship with Norway, the government wants to look further at the situation of children who have lived illegally for a long time in Norway, in the wake of the child-breeding announcement. It must be stressed, however, that it is not desirable that, in such a situation, and not least children, it should be possible for them to be an instrument for obtaining a residence permit for which the conditions are not initially fulfilled. Such a provision could also attract more asylum seekers who do not have a need for protection and also undermine the motivation for voluntary return. We see that more and more people choose to travel on a voluntary basis. In 2010, over 1,400 people voluntarily returned to their country of origin with the support of the Norwegian authorities, which is an increase of 30 pst. This is very positive. In addition, 4,600 persons were transported by coercion. Interpellant states that other European countries have had different legalisation arrangements for this group and that Norway has had none. Persons who have received a final rejection have unlimited access to request UNE to reverse the rejection decision. Here, the connection to the kingdom, especially in matters relating to children, will be a central moment. However, an overall assessment must be carried out, where other considerations may also be relevant and decisive. I would also like to stress that this government does not want long-term illegal residence to be able to justify a permit alone. I would also like to stress that the rules and measures on the regularisation of illegal residence in other countries are not necessarily more liberal than Norwegian rules. For example, several southern European countries have implemented large and comprehensive regularisations in order to obtain a labour market with a large irregular workforce into order. We do not have such a situation in Norway. In these cases, there are mainly reasons other than purely humanitarian ones that have led to legalisation. Other countries, such as the Netherlands, France and Sweden, have implemented similar schemes in very special situations, such as: in the case of conversions of an overloaded immigration management. Nor is this the case in Norway. On the contrary, we see a decrease in the number of people seeking protection here. In 2009, a total of 17,226 people applied, while last year only 10,064 asylum seekers were registered in Norway. Finally, I would like to stress that people who stay in Norway for a long time without a residence permit represent a complex issue, which requires an overall and principleal approach and not an easy-to-use solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3310	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, even though it was not new in relation to this group, and in terms of solving the situation in which the paperless, for various reasons, cannot be returned, is in. I agree with the Council of State that it must be the case in Norway that those entitled to protection should be allowed to remain and that those not entitled to protection should in principle return. That's the way it has to be. Some of the problem in the Norwegian foreign administration is that we have had a situation where the application period, i.e. the treatment period, has been very, very long. So they've been here for a long time. But anyway, now I'm not talking in general about all those who get rejected, but I'm talking about the group that for some reason won't be forced to return, and I don't think the council went into that particular issue. Still pointing to return, return, return. But what about those who cannot be returned, who cannot be forced to return? They say, well, we can work for them to return on a voluntary basis. Well, these are people. Many of these people have a subjective view of their own situation that goes on that they're terrified of returning, because they don't know what's waiting for them. So there's a fear that they won't be able to get back. Even now, when they have been deprived of the right to work and support themselves, the situation has become such that they want to return. It's because they experience their own situation that is so difficult, and so precarious, that they choose to be. How long are these people going to put their lives on hold before the Norwegian authorities realize that we have to get a regulation here? We're also talking about children. Now I know that during this semester in Stortinget we will get a case about children on the run. I hope that those children who are also part of this group will receive better treatment than they have now. These are children who either stayed with their parents or who are born in Norway and who are now – at least so far – punished for elections made by their parents. We have to find a solution for them as well. We are talking here about people who have been in Norway for a long time. I've heard of people who've been here for 17 years. No matter how difficult and awkward we do it for them, it's not that they automatically return, because they have a subjective view of their own situation and the situation in their home country that makes them not awake. I had hoped that this debate could go a little further into that problem. In conclusion, I would like to say that I do not point to simple solutions, this is complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3325	It's not difficult to agree with the interpellant that these matters contain very many serious human fortunes and very demanding discussions. These are individual cases, and it is important that each person is given a good deal of treatment on his/her case. In fact, this is how I am confident that our foreign administration will apply the legislation laid down here in this room. I underlined in my post what must be the obvious starting point for the person who has been denied his/her application for a stay in Norway. It is that he has to comply with the decision and return voluntarily. I will not repeat the responsibility of the individual in this context. With regard to the question of whether it was therefore not right to focus on the subjective perception of the situation, I would say that it is important that the applicant is heard with his whole case, the perception of his own situation, and that it is also included in the assessment of the individual case. If, in such a situation, a negative decision has been taken, the starting point is the return. I am pleased with the weight the interpellant has put on the children's situation. I think we understand that children on the run may be more demanding than their parents, and that their case and their concern for their situation must weigh heavily, which I am also sure the foreign administration is doing, but where we have had individual cases – not least where children have come to Norway alone – that make it necessary to review whether we have the right solutions for children on the run. The government is planning, as has already been mentioned, to submit a separate notification to the Storting in a short time. I look forward to the discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3336	There's been a lot of discussion about the paperless and their situation lately. Paperless is a very precise concept, as many of them are concerned have an ID, but they do not want to or will not give it to Norwegian authorities. So we are talking about people who are illegally staying in Norway and who have been denied their application for residence in the country. There are certainly also people here without a stay who do not want or intend to apply for a stay here. It's hardly these interpellants mean. The interpellant refers to the Maria Amelie case. Amelie was not without papers. She was a Russian citizen who is now awaiting a change of rules in order to apply for employment immigration to Norway. As the Minister of Justice says, there are no issues that are the same, but the law is the same for everyone. The media coverage of each case is also not equal. It must be a general principle that matters should not be determined as to whether or not some thing is going to get the media to face their case. If we come into such a situation, the legal certainty of the individual is really threatened. Every candidate for asylum in Norway receives an individual treatment of his/her case. It is a legal principle that the Norwegian State can be proud of. All applicants are not allowed to stay because their application does not qualify for it. The fact that someone has to leave the country voluntarily or through forced repatriation often leads to strong local reactions. That's understandable. This is about people and human companionship. I understand the communities that ring the bells of their asylum seekers. However, the alternative may not be that not all should be treated in accordance with the same law. Laws, principles and legal certainty distinguish a State governed by law from countries which are not. In addition, there is unlimited access for persons with final refusal to request UNE to reverse the refusal decision. New information should, of course, be used to clarify the matter, but it is not unproblematic that there is an unlimited access to the decision on conversion at present. Here, authorities should consider the need to coordinate these practices with the ordinary judicial system in Norway. The government has invested a lot of resources to reduce the procedure time. It is also a guarantee of legal certainty. We cannot offer everyone who wants to be in Norway, stay, but we can offer them an individual assessment of their case. It's a legal state worthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3351	I have to say that listening to the representative, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, and his total discharge from liability on behalf of the individual illegal immigrants is inconvenient. I choose to quote a part of the text that actually forms the basis of today's interpellation, where he says that these people cannot be forced to return. And: ‘Human beings are thus in an insoluble situation because of today’s legislation.’ So because you can't force them to return, they're in an insoluble situation. Then you ignore the obvious fact that these people can return to their own country voluntarily at any time. So you choose – contrary to legal decisions, with Storting's will and intention – to cling here, get illegal, break Norwegian law. And then you say they're in an insoluble situation. I think it is incongruous that the Christian People's Party can take such a totally unprincipled position and disclaim any responsibility for its own situation. It is obvious that in the vast majority of cases, asylum seekers are those who have been rejected and are thus to be returned but choose not to do so. There's a situation where you cling and stay here for a long time. So Christian People's Party now expresses their desire to give them a stay anyway, so reward it that you don't follow legal decisions. Already in 2006, the SSB suggested that we could have as many as 32,000 illegal immigrants in Norway. It was before the asylum figures exploded in 2008-2009. We have a zero overview of how many of these could actually be about today. With this Christian People's Party will send a signal to the world: Come here, seek asylum! If you like to be rejected, but if you stay here long enough, in spite of legal decisions, yes, you will be allowed to stay here anyway, because we do not in fact demand that you take responsibility for your own situation! I think it's sympathetic, and I hope that the Christian People's Party enters the mind box and cannot be used, as I perceive they are now, by the paperless campaign, which is staged by what I would call genius left-wing radicals who have one intention, and that is fundamentally changing Norwegian asylum policy, introducing an open-door policy. At least it does not want the Progress Party. Then, in all humility, one must actually demand that one deal with reality. When you give the impression that you have been here for as long as illegal immigrants, it is because of the long procedure period! Well, much of the reason why we have a long period of time in many situations is that each asylum seeker is opposed, does not contribute to clarifying his own identity and makes full use of the possibilities within today's foreign administration by continuing the appeal, and once a final decision has been reached, use all the resuming possibilities over and over again. The representative Confessor has himself been present and has been referred to from the UDI examples of persons who have resumed their case a two-digit number of times. It is a system designed for those who want to abuse it and who do not respect Norwegian laws, Norwegian rules and what is non-discrimination for anyone seeking asylum in Norway. There is one thing that should be crucial when applying for asylum, and that is the need for protection, not as the representative Becquerad says, subjective perception of danger. Where should we end if we are to base this naivety and this total discharge on behalf of individuals who do not take responsibility for their own lives? Here, the Storting must be clear and clear. To have a credible asylum policy, it must be strict and fair. As I perceive the Christian People's Party here, it is neither strict nor fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3368	I would like to thank the inter-pellant, but also the Council of State for a good answer. I think it is important that we now raise our eyes slightly in relation to the recent debate, where various organisations have tried to introduce a new concept in Norway, namely ‘paperless’. I have to say that it has been documented here from several of the previous speakers that there are some who have papers, there are many of these we are talking about here. They have received a refusal of rejection. They have not taken this into account. That, in my view, is the starting point for this debate. We want a strict and fair asylum policy in the Right. If we are to achieve that, if we are to achieve a fair asylum policy, we must expect the rules of the game to be followed. So you could say that there's something wrong with the game rules, and we've pointed that out several times. Among other things, the Right says that the government should take more of the responsibility for asylum policy by giving itself the opportunity to instruct the Foreign Minister in specific matters — not individual matters, but on a more general basis. That access was removed a few years ago, when there was a fear that there was politics in all matters. But this is actually policy, and it is important that the government can also act quickly when they see changing trends. But the most important thing I've been waiting for the government to come along is the follow-up to the attitude of the selection that Øystein Meland led, where the procedural rules and procedures were reviewed. As both the representative Ingelill Olsen was in, and as others have also been in, there is an evil circle to enter if one expects any desire for conversion to give additional residence in Norway, and in particular if it is to become a general amnesty after a certain period. There are right-wing strong opponents of it. We don't want an amnesty. It will undermine asylum policy. But then there's another side of the matter, and it was also the Council of State: if you have a situation where asylum seekers are actually irretrievable, you will be able to obtain residence in Norway on a humanitarian basis. It is on the Ministry's website regarding this child-situation survey, that if you have been in Norway for three years, you have cooperated from day one, but you can't actually be returned, you should be able to stay in the Kingdom. So there are many – I was saying – air holes, valves in this system, and they are hopefully being used in a good way, so that those who really have that need have the opportunity to stay here. But what is the problem now is that if you look at the total migration to Norway, immigration to Norway, for example, constitutes, Immigrants and family reunification 80 pst. Of those coming to Norway who are here to contribute to society. All the focus in all debates is on a small, small proportion of the total number. Now we're talking about the so-called paperless, which is a concept I don't have any sense of. But the remaining 80-90 pst. which is to be integrated into the Norwegian society, which is to participate in Norwegian working life, to participate in Norwegian social life, is sacrificed to a small extent. We had an interpellation a few weeks ago at Per-Kristian Foss about Poles who become unemployed in Norway and who do not get access to Norwegian training if they are not so lucky to live in Oslo and Akershus, because there is some special course. This type of problem is very often put in the background of a debate on a small group that is illegal here, who does not want to return to their home country voluntarily, and who does not cooperate, because if they cooperate, there are many opportunities, such as the Council of State and others had in mind. It's financial assistance, there's a lot of other possibilities like training, etc. I hope we can have a debate in the future that goes on: Rules of Procedure: Reduce the number of requests for conversion. Get a faster flow. Reduce the length of the procedure in general. Take better care of those who come to Norway who are entitled to stay. Give them good offers, Norwegian training, give them work, etc. It's the most important thing, seems right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3394	I usually do not participate in debates on immigration and asylum policy in the main hall. But now that SV has tried an alternate strategy lately, I have decided to take the floor. I must admit that I have followed many of these debates with great interest. Often, they have appeared, from a representative who usually deals with other kinds of political issues, as a quantitative competition: we have thrown out so many and so many. We've got the applicants down. When we ruled, come and so many fewer hit here, etc. Rarely is it that one discusses the fates within this field. That is understandable. The biggest job is to adopt the lines and the rules. In debates on individuals in the Chamber, sentimentality could quickly be dropped. It's both a little constructive, and it could be speculative. Nevertheless, there is reason to remember that we define and follow principles for a reason. Rules do not exist by virtue of themselves, they do not exist in a manless vacuum. The wording of this debate has also puzzled me. When words find the way to the asylum debate, they mutate. It is no longer called the division of responsibilities. It's called burden-sharing. People in vulnerable situations, such as long-term paperless and irreversible, are reduced to a statistical burden. The presence of these people is a burden. «Flight current» means a concept which is rhetorically designed to produce the images of uncontrolled hordes that we find difficult to handle. The weight is no longer put on the flight itself or what is the reason people choose to escape, but that they together form a current. ‘Beautiful hunter’ — a term that is usually raised, especially on the right, as an honorary word, to a small extent. Seeking a better life for themselves and theirs becomes a disqualifying trait, and something we don't want here in the country. The masters in this exercise are, as we have heard today, the Progress Party. They leave the asylum debate with prejudices and fear of wiping out the human face behind the numbers. The leader of the party, the representative Jensen, has previously complained about asylum seekers who drugged and raped girls in Oslo. To believe that this use of language does not affect the climate of debate, which in turn affects the policy pursued, is the real naivety of the Norwegian asylum debate. Sometimes the prejudices are broken. The obvious confusion of the party in meeting Maria Amelie is very illustrative, for the terrain passed no longer with the completed map. The sympathy of the opinion reversed, and the government agreed on new arrangements to ensure the undocumented possibility of returning to Norway to work. I'm very happy about that. When the rules are to exist only by virtue of itself, and when the rules suddenly cannot be changed because it would no longer be the same for the law, we have forgotten what the rules are for in the first place. There is no lack of examples of us making exceptions to our rules for different reasons — not to be kind, but because it makes sense, decent and meaningful. Regulations such as: is not, as the Minister of Justice rightly points out, about being the kindest or the most liberal. I mean it's about two things, and it's propriety and control. It is unsustainable that thousands of people live in Norway for years without rights, without work, without any other means of coping than crime or undeclared work. So you could say that they weren't supposed to be here in the first place, that they had to go home, and that the rules had to be followed. But it won't last. It doesn't work like that in any other field of society. For example, we throw. not all drug addicts in prison, even if what they do is illegal. We recognize that these are people who need help and other solutions. This is what the debate on regularisation is really about. It is this that makes countries that are otherwise less liberal than Norway regulate hundreds of thousands of people, because it is recognised that none of us is served by the fact that thousands of people are without health services, without education, without vaccines and without work — with the consequences that it has for black work, crime, poverty and health. It is these people who bear the burden themselves, and many of them cannot be sent out of the country. There is no evidence that regulation schemes lead to an increase in the number of people coming to the country or that more people are trying to abuse the system. This is about taking the consequence that people are in Norway for 5, 10, 15 and up to 17 years without any rights. No one deserves it. I am pleased that this debate is being taken, much thanks to the campaign 'No human beings are illegal'. It's new to me that the church is a left-wing radical secondary organization, but that's the concept of the Progress Party. In front of us, we have a glittering opportunity to make sure that the map is more consistent with the terrain. Because, as John Steinbeck wrote, life couldn't change the sun or win the desert, so it changed itself. As surely as the sun shines and the desert dries, it is that people will continue to flee, continue to move, continue to seek new lives, and that our rules will never take account of all eventualities. What this debate is about is to take the consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3420	First, I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising a very important issue and for having made a good contribution, like the previous speaker. As I was about to say that in many ways I thought the debate was more about jus than it was about people, the representative Serigstad Valen was just able to raise the perspective that might be most important in this debate, and that shows some of the dilemmas, namely how we can take human dignity seriously. It might be okay to clarify again, as the interpellant also did, that for the Christian People's Party, we want to send out the people who are not entitled to stay, and we want to receive those who have the right to stay. We want to do something about the processing time, and we want those people who come to Norway and apply for asylum to not have to bear the burden of not being able to deal with our matters well enough. It doesn't mean that one is naive or that one is unfair or that one is not ‘strict’, as the representative Amundsen likes to call it, that just means that one wants to focus on people. What I find interesting in the debate is that I miss one meeting the dilemmas or the reality that should be present. It is in this debate that what the interpellant refers to is not about Maria Amelie. It's not about her debate. It's about the people who are in Norway, who are going to be sent out, but who are irreversible, and we don't know what to do with. Then the dilemmas meet. The representative Amundsen lands on that if we help people, we signal to the whole world that it's just coming to Norway, everyone can stay. The other side of the matter is that we see that there are people who are in a difficult situation, and that we actually have a responsibility to help them. When the question is about people who are paperless – call them what you want – who are irreversible, and they have, as the interpellant says, put their lives on hold, and for example. is in a situation where they need health care, so I think it's right that we also have to give them that help. One must at least dry up to the dilemmas in a much more serious way, because we have a responsibility for these people. As the previous speaker said, one can't just say that the people who are here, who we can't get back, just take responsibility for themselves, and that it's a discharge if we help them. I feel that many of these people are actually involved and contribute to society and just want to live the best possible life. Another challenge in this matter is that many of the people who had previously been in ordinary work and had been issued with tax cards felt that they had lost it. People who had worked legally for several years and paid taxes lost that opportunity. As one has heard before, these are people who have received loans, municipal loans, loans from banks, and who have paid down on loans and been integrated into the local environment, etc. It is estimated that up to 3000 people have been in work and paid taxes during 2010 and 2011. These are people who lost the opportunity to support their families and themselves overnight. It's a serious situation. In addition, this also leads to the creation of a huge market for social dumping and for undeclared work. That's the other side of the debate. Either you like it or you don't like it, these people are here. It also means that they can be subjected to quite hard driving because they need money. Then it is easy to abuse them, either through black work or by putting pay down significantly. I had hoped that the debate would also take on board that it was about how one should manage to treat people in the best possible way. For the Christian People's Party, it's not a wish that one should necessarily give everyone legal residence or something like that, but it's about lifting the dilemma. I see that the representative Amundsen actually has some points that one can't send out for clear signals that it's just coming to Norway and then we're going to take all responsibility. On the other hand, I also hope that the representative Amundsen and the Minister of Justice see the dilemma and the challenge that we have not been able to take seriously today, namely that there are thousands of people who have been put on hold and for whom we have to do even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3441	I also want to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. I would also like to thank Snorre Serigstad Valen for a great article. I wish that was the government's policy he was talking about, really intense and sincere. Then I'm more amazed at all the strange concepts associated with the paperless. The Workers' Party definitions are really none of what I associate with the term ‘paperless’. For the left, which also does not like the term ‘paperless’ and rarely uses it, it is about people without citizenship and who live in the kingdom without legal residence. That's really what this is about. What is a home country when you've lived somewhere for 17 years, had a regular job, paid your taxes, contributed to the community, taught you the language, born children here, let those children grow up here and go to Norwegian kindergarten, got Norwegian friends? What's the home country of those kids? What really is your home country when you've lived in a country for 17 years, born your children here and married here? I think you can discuss that too. Then I have to refute some of what Per-Willy Amundsen said. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it. But to claim that there are 32 000 illegals here! If you add up absolutely everyone who's arrived, and you haven't been sent out, and you don't have a coercive decision, you get 32,000. But it's so far from reality that I think it's important to refute it from here. If there were so many, we would probably have known a lot more than we know. It is claimed that the paperless campaign is a group of extreme left radicalists, so let me frame someone: Amnesty International, Norwegian People's Aid, the Church's Bymission. Inter-Church Council, Human-Ethical Association, Save Barna, the Helsinki Committee, trade unions such as the Psychologists' Association and the Youth of Red Cross – well-known extremists in this area, that is clear! The point here is that 22 countries in Europe have made regular regularisation decisions. The left is opposite the amnesty. The left is against implementing general schemes once you have been in a country for a long time. But we are because, at regular intervals, such as 22 European countries, also those countries that are run by more right-wing radical leaders, we implement schemes where you set a line at regular intervals, based on how you have behaved properly, that you have integrated yourself, that you have a job, that you have paid taxes, and that you have not carried out illegalities in the country you are in – such types of indications for sometimes setting a line to prevent the emergence of black work, and to prevent the emergence of crime. To me, it's very strange that the Workers' Party can be in charge of a policy where you want people not to work. I believe that of all, all of them, who come to this country, as they come here, they are expected to do a job, pay their taxes and do their job, contribute to the community from day one. That should have been the goal here. To take away people's tax card without giving people an alternative is to say that when you apply for asylum, you are not allowed to work! I mean you should work from day one. That's the expectation you'll have when you get to Norway. This is the message to be given when applying for Norway. We have a community contract that helps you work, pays to the community, and you get a security back. It's the Norwegian social contract. You're going to learn it from day one, and to me it's completely incomprehensible that the Workers' Party stands for the opposite. The left has put in a Document 8 proposal that goes into exactly these things that have been addressed in today's interpellation. I hope it gets a proper, proper and real treatment in the committee. And then I have to say, the first thing I did as a cultural agency in Oslo was to make Oslo a free city for persecuted writers. For me, freedom of expression is essential. It's pretty hard to see another European country bring into the same scheme that we recently threw out of ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3463	I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing this debate into the main hall. There's been a lot of pathos in the posts here, and I'm going to need to go back to the facts. The central statistical agency suggests that 18 000 people are residing illegally in Norway. It is assumed that more than two thirds of these are asylum seekers who have been denied their asylum applications. The Interpol text states that 1500 to 3000 people have both been here illegally for more than five years and cannot be returned by the Police Foreign Unit. The representative, Bekkewold, pointed out in his statement that these are persons from countries with which Norway does not have return agreements. There is reason to question both the number and the concept of ‘paperless’, but that is not what is at the heart of today’s debate. What's important is the mention of this as a situation with only one solution, an amnesty. There is another and better solution: voluntary return. There's nothing to prevent those people that this is about, from going home voluntarily. On the contrary, the government wants those who are rejected to get a good start when they are back in their home country. Norway therefore has good arrangements for those who choose to travel on a voluntary basis. The Labour Party is committed to ensuring that all those at risk of persecution, torture or inhumane treatment on return to their country of origin have the right – and have – to stay in Norway. This is done after a thorough assessment of each individual asylum application. At the same time, we must ensure that the institution of asylum has legitimacy and support. This means that those who are refused must go home. There has so far been a broad consensus on the return policy. A unanimous increase was in favour of the EU Return Directive in December. This Decision includes, inter alia: that more people with illegal residence will be expelled with an entry ban. A legalisation system, an amnesty, will in practice reward those who have not acted upon decisions taken by the Norwegian authorities. Such an arrangement will be perceived as an invitation to go underground and endure until the next time there is a similar arrangement. The Workers' Party does not want it that way. And so today's opposition parties, the Christian People's Party included, would not have it when they were in government. Minister of State Erna Solberg, Bondevik, stressed in 2004 that ‘we cannot have a system that accepts people ignoring legal decisions’. That is an assessment I fully agree with. It may not be that the individual asylum seeker chooses whether to stay in the country, even if he or she should comply with Norwegian law or not. Although a general legalisation system is not the way to go, there is reason to look at the situation of children. I am pleased that the government has notified a matter to the Stortinget about how the asylum applications for children are being treated on the run and followed up. In addition, there is reason to consider how the Norwegian society deals with people who live here illegally, no matter what reason. In particular, it is important that everyone is required to provide a health service. This is what the government is working on. That's good. Having said that, the most important thing the government is doing to solve the challenge of people who are staying illegally is to ensure a rapid procedure and a rapid return for those who are being rejected. It will prevent persons without a right to protection from entering and remaining illegal in Norway. It's important to them it touches directly, they get started faster with the rest of their lives. But it is also important for the establishment and trust of the asylum institution. Norwegian law and decisions taken by Norwegian authorities must be followed by everyone in Norway — by everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3484	I can largely join the previous speaker when he places such emphasis on the fact that when Stortinget adopts laws, they should be followed. I would at best be able to interpret the interpellant there that by violating the laws of the Great Britain, he believes that with such attitudes he exercises a higher form of humanism. I think it should be remembered that one of the reasons why we have legislation on asylum is precisely that it is possible to distinguish those who have a real need for protection so that they can come to the country and that Norway can fulfil its international obligations in this area. If the institution of asylum is allowed to be abused as a detour – around a general immigration regulation – to the empire, both those who come here on these premises and the actual asylum seekers have been given a great service. What I also want to warn you about, is to use the so-called Maria Amelie case as a symbol case. In this case – I had the opportunity to go into this matter a little bit – it is that far more excellent lawyers than the undersigned pointed out that it had been fully possible by loyal compliance with the derogation provided for in the Foreign Affairs Act on strong human interests, in particular in relation to the Reich, to be able to focus on immigration-regulating considerations in a positive sense, namely that he had acquired an education and a competence that was good for Norway. But here one has arranged for this to be left to the bureaucracy — without instructions, without guidance for the discretion of political authority. Then you'll be able to face such unfairness as what that case represented. I think that asylum and immigration policies have been quite right in balancing these considerations. And it's quite symptomatic for those who want to change immigration policy, that they have to resort to such examples as the Maria Amelie case, which really doesn't illustrate very well how our refugee policy works. It's atypical, and I even mean that you don't have to change a single rule in order to get to another result in that case. Since he is going to have the word after me, I would ask the interpellant, Bekkevold, since I did not fully grasp it in his posts and in his follow-up posts, and in particular not in those who support the same position, namely the representatives Serigstad Valen and Ropstad: Is it not such that a state can regulate the influx into its territory? Is it so that you don't recognise that this is an obvious state task, which all the states in the world – I believe – will depend on, namely the right to set limits on who lives? The contributions of several Grandes could also give a similar approach — whether one does not at all see the need to regulate immigration and the influx of people on a state-law basis, and whether one does not have both a moral and a legal right to set such limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3497	I would like to thank you for the debate and for the speeches. It's been said a lot. To the representative Michael Tetzschner, I would like to say that of course a state has the right to regulate its immigration policy. I think most people here have just said that in Norway we largely agree that those who are entitled to protection will be allowed to stay. Those not entitled to protection must return. But we have to assume that we have a group of people in this country who, for various reasons, cannot be returned, and who have been here for many, many years. In some way, we can also regulate the conditions for them. I have not raised a single issue for amnesty. I haven't used that word. I don't think amnesty is a good solution. It is a one-off event that does not solve the problems in the long term. I use the word ‘regulation’. I have pointed out how we could have done this and have referred to the 2003 UDI's own proposal as an example of how to regulate. If I say that no country is served that there is a group of people who go underground, or who live entirely on the side of society, I think most here will nodded to it. And if I keep saying that children are first and foremost children, then asylum seekers, and that children deserve the very best we can give them, I think most people in this room will nodded also to that. This has been one of the themes of this debate, and if you are nodding to it, you are also looking for solutions for this group of people, which also includes children. It has been pointed out that there will be a big message about children on the run. I hope it takes over, takes into account, the situation that children in Norway are in, whether they are brought here by their parents or they are born here. I think this has been an important debate to promote, because we are talking about a small number of people – not 32 000, to which the representative Amundsen refers, but a place between 1,500 and 3,000 people living in a limbo situation. And this isn't about being soft-hearted or naive; it's about taking reality over and taking into account this group as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3512	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important topic, and this is about individuals, about individual matters, which each requires both justice, predictability and legal certainty – for all, not just those who become part of the public debate. I have been involved in this debate for many years and experience that we are constantly having a discussion about where the boundaries will go, which, in my opinion, describes in a good way how demanding this matter is, and where the small shades are also central. And just to establish it, so I haven't misunderstood the interpellant: it's like those who can't return, they won't have amnesty, they're going to have a residence permit – and they get it. We have discussed how to assess immigration regulatory considerations, in relation to persons who have been in Norway for a long time without authorisation. This is a matter that always depends on a concrete assessment, and illegal residence and work are considerations that, in isolation, contradict the granting of a permit, and it also provides a basis for expulsion after, among others, the granting of a permit. the return directive. However, strong ties with the State in terms of residence and integration will be a factor in which authorisation can be granted, particularly in matters relating to children, which are not responsible for the choice of their parents. But you will always have to assess the individual issues that apply in one case, and here I trust that UDI and UNE will assess the regulation well established by the Stortinget, and that I will also remind you of is designed under several governments, with several compositions. There have also been questions about follow-up to the settings of the Malta Committee. This is a position which has been at the hearing, which is sent out at a wide consultation also during these days, and which will provide a basis for a further follow-up to the question of whether the Ministry’s powers of instruction towards the Foreign Service’s Board of Appeal have been too narrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3523	That being the case, it is no. 14 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3529	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3537	There are no comments. Thus, the decision of the majority has been accepted at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3545	There are no comments. Thus, the decision of the majority has been accepted at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3553	In this case, Solvency Horne has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a legislative proposal to allow for exhaustive child care certificates to be required of support contacts and others that have similar regular and close contact with children.’ The proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to be included on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3656	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3666	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3674	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Mr Right, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Group 3, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 4, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 5-9, from Trine Proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4 are included in the vote, while the proposals No. 5-9 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. The President noted that proposal No. 2 in the setting, from the Progress Party and the Right, has been withdrawn. Proposals Nos. From 5 to 9, the left is taken up to voting. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the process of adoption to be less bureaucratic and more predictable.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate Norway’s efforts to conclude cooperation agreements with several countries and to have a more active role in the preparation of new agreements.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to facilitate the adoption of the test before granting an authorisation to distribute to adoption associations.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked in the adoption law more specifically that there is no upper age limit for granting adoption authorisation.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the pre-consent period for foreign adoption from 3 to 4 years, with the possibility of extending for up to one year.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3733	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the government to step up the adoption aid to 2 G during the ageing period’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3748	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the adoption aid to 1 G’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3763	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requires the government to facilitate a maximum duration of treatment of 9 months for adoption applicants.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3790	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3798	During the debate, Mr Lien put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to introduce a ban on the use of hijab in primary school.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3825	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Dale, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a proposal to the Stortinget for the introduction of bullying agents in each state.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3849	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring a case before the Grand Duchy in which various sanctions are imposed on school owners who violate the provisions of the Administrative Act relating to individual decisions and access to justice in matters relating to bullying.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a student representative for primary school and that this be placed under the Children’s Ombudsman.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3883	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3891	During the debate Anders B. Werp put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: 'The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Law of 13 June 1997 No. 44 on limited liability companies [[share laws]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3918	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Åse Michaelsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 3, from Bente Stein Mathisen on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote the cause of the Stortinget with the necessary legislative changes to ensure a better follow-up of young people who have started a criminal racetrack.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3944	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action to the Grand Duchy for a change in child protection practices, where such decisions are taken by a court rather than by the county.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Grand Duchy to bring the matter before it with the necessary legislative changes, as well as to establish probationary arrangements for youth rehabilitation and reconciliation institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e3982	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for ICT investment in the police force to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the planned ICT investments are not carried out at the expense of the police’s ordinary operating budget, including the recruitment of newly educated persons and the target of 2.0 police per 1 000 inhabitants.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a plan for ICT investment in the police, as well as the costs of this project, in the context of the revised national budget. The plan must assume that ICT investment does not go beyond staffing in the establishment.» The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposals. Alternatively, there is a vote between the proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e4028	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. As regards proposal No: 2, it has been surrendered after the period laid down in the first paragraph of Section 30 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. If there are no objections to it, the President will nevertheless allow the proposal to be put to the vote. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e4044	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to submit a bill to the Stortinget that a provision prohibiting the use of religious and political symbols in court is included in the Law of the Court of Justice.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e4059	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal to ensure that professionals have neutral clothing in the courts.’ The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they wish to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e4088	In Case No: 13 and 14 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e4100	There is no record.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e4103	I voted incorrectly on proposal No. 1 in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e4108	Under proposal No 1? I then realize that it is proposal No. 1, from the Advancement Party and the Right, which is mentioned? The representative said she was wrong. That probably means that she voted in favour of the proposal, I think. In this case, it shall be recorded that the representative voted against. Is that correct? The screen shows that the representative Eldegaard voted against. It was as expected, but it is still possible that it was wrong. But it is possible that we will leave the protocol as it is at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-15.ana.ud2502e4113	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
