ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e102	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e105	On behalf of the representatives Åshild Karoline Haugland, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to propose a national broadband lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e110	The representative, Mr Åshild Karoline Haugland, wants to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e113	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Arne Sortevik, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Peter N. Myhre and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to lift the so-called environmental border in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e118	The representative, Knut Arild Hareide, wants to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e121	On behalf of the representatives of Dagfinn Høybräten, Line Henriette Hämdal, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to present the proposal for more efficient planning processes for the faster realisation of new road projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e126	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Let's go to case No. 1, and the president expects that that's why it's good attendance today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e142	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 389]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e156	On 22 July 2011, Norway will be a nation for a long time. Eight people lost their lives in the bomb explosion in the government quarter. 69 died as a result of the attack on Utøya. Many people were injured, and even more were affected as victims or relatives. In addition, terrorist acts caused significant material damage. The Ministry of Justice has made a preliminary statement in its 2012 budget proposal on the attacks, the measures implemented before the attacks and what has been done afterwards. I have also reported on the attacks in the debate on the throne on 4 October 2011. On the same day, the Minister of Defence and I, in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, presented separately the preparedness for terrorism in Norway. However, the government sees it as important to further inform the Storting about the serious attacks that occurred in Norway and their follow-up. Therefore, in a letter dated 17 October 2011, I offered the Presidentship of Stortinget to report to Stortinget on current matters in connection with 22 July. It is important and appropriate to give tribute to those who were in action, from the police, the other emergency services, the defence and other public servants, as well as to the non-governmental organisations and many persons who participated on their own initiative. These all made a formidable effort under very difficult conditions. All honour to these! At the same time, it is legitimate to ask questions about how police action and rescue work were carried out. In this context, I would like to highlight what the Per-Christian Foss representative said to the evening post on 19 October, that the most important thing is to see whether there are elements of police preparedness where there has been a failure, which can already be strengthened. The representative Anders Anundsen is concerned about something of the same kind when he says in the same newspaper that the most important thing is to clarify many of the issues that have been mentioned in the media such as defects, defects and problem areas – that is, that facts should already be informed and seen in areas that can be strengthened. I agree with that. Transparency around these issues is important. Where we see improvement points, there's no need to wait. We have to recognise faults and shortcomings when they are discovered, and be willing to change and learn. I would therefore like to emphasise in this statement seven areas that I so far believe deserve both political attention, debate and action. However, many details and questions about the attacks can be difficult to answer before the investigations and evaluations of the agencies involved have been completed. I remember there was agreement between the government and all the political parties on the Stortingen to appoint a commission to review the attacks on the government quarter and the Utøya. The main purpose of the Commission's work is to draw lessons from the attacks. The Commission shall identify all relevant aspects of the course of events and submit its report, as is known, by 10 August 2012. Furthermore, as is well-known, the Police Directorate and the Police Security Service carry out internal evaluations of the police's handling of the attacks on 22 July. These will be available in week 9 in 2012. I have been informed by the Minister of Health and Care that the same applies to the review of the health sector’s experience. There is also an extensive investigation. Many questions about the course of events will only be clarified when a final judgment is available. In addition, I would like to point out that all the actions need to be evaluated in real time, and seen in the light of the information available to the operational teams there and then. In retrospect, it will of course be easier to see other action options. Once all the facts have been established, we must also ask questions about whether, or how, any deficiencies have been significant. On this basis, I stress that no one has been earned that hasty conclusions are made on an unsound or flawed basis. In the following, I will briefly explain the role and responsibilities, as well as plans and different response capacities. I will then give a presentation of the course of events on 22 July and in this connection address some issues that have received special attention. I want to focus on the issues that I as Minister of Justice have to explain, and with particular emphasis on the role of the police. Other responsibilities will be affected to a small extent. In addition, I would like to point out the challenges and dilemmas facing society and that we need to address in the future. I would like to stress that my statement has to be limited to the work of the 22nd July Commission and the assessments it is up to it to make. It wouldn't be right for me at the moment to draw the bastant conclusions about the course of events. New facts may arise and the factual basis on which this statement is based may be changed. Extraordinary events at the outer edge of the extreme and crisis require effort at all levels. Government and ministries represent the strategic level. The Ministry of Justice will play a central role in most national crisis situations. Under the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate of Police, the Central Unit of the PST and the Central Rescue Centres are responsible for the operational level. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness is on behalf of the Department of Professional and Supervisory Bodies in the field of civil society security and preparedness. The tactical level at which the emergency response itself is carried out shall be ensured, inter alia: of the individual police districts. With regard to the overall principles of national security and preparedness work, I refer to the mention of these in the Ministry of Justice's 2012 budget proposal, but state that the principle of subsidiarity does not apply in the case of security crises. The administrative apparatus for central crisis management is based on three main elements. This involves crisis management through the Ministry of leadership, crisis coordination through the Government Crisis Council and assistance from the Crisis Support Unit. The Chief of Police is responsible for the police's handling of all kinds of incidents in its own police district, including crises. The Police Directorate may, in a crisis situation, among other things: assist the police officers concerned and contribute to the availability of adequate human and material resources. In the event of crises, PST assists, inter alia: with the provision of intelligence, advice, alerts and the preparation of threat assessments. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness shall contribute to strengthening social security and crisis management capability at local, regional and national level. The main rescue services shall ensure the top level of operational coordination and management of the rescue services. The police emergency response system is the foundation for the consistent and effective management of both ordinary and extraordinary events. The system consists of police preparedness guidelines, police directorate management documents and police district planning. These include: designed plans for securing a variety of objects, such as: buildings and other critical social infrastructure. In addition, plans have been developed for a number of scenarios where the police play a central role. The response force at Oslo Police District is the police's national response unit to terrorism and other organised or serious crime. The force may, on request, assist the other police districts by specific actions and by police tactical advice. The Oslo Police District Bombing Group consists of bombers and bombers with explosive dogs, such as the U.S. may provide assistance to the other police districts in connection with explosive bombing and removal. In 1986, in order to strengthen police preparedness, own emergency services were set up. The teams in the emergency units are used in armed operations in the police districts and carry out order services for the day to day. From 2002, all the police districts of the country have had at least one call-out team. The teams undergo an annual maintenance training of a total of 103 hours. The police helicopter, which is established as a separate unit in the Oslo Police District, is a complement to other police resources. The helicopter may be used as an overview or observation platform for, inter alia: serious accidents, armed actions and other serious crime. The police helicopter has very limited transport capacity and is neither equipped for nor suitable for sharp missions. In addition, the rescue helicopter service, operated by the Defence Agency, may be an important means of supporting police transport in serious situations. This I will come back to later. The main rescue centres control the use of these rescue helicopters. I also remind you that the defence has considerable resources that civil society can make use of in several contexts. In this respect, I would like to express my great thanks to the Defence for their assistance to the police in connection with 22 July. Defence assistance to the police is further regulated in a separate assistance file. The Minister of Defence will, in his statement, detail this instruction and the defence's assistance to the police in connection with the attacks on 22 July. I also show that in the Ministry of Justice's budget proposal for 2012, among other things. have been provided with an overview of other relevant preparedness activities. I now want to explain the role of the police on 22 July with the information that it has been possible to produce on the matter as of today. The subsequent fact-finding is based on input from the Police Security Service, the Police Directorate, Kripos, Oslo Police District and Nordre Buskerud Police District and other investigations. The presentation is as exhaustive as possible at this stage. However, I would like to stress that the scope of the information to be monitored in connection with this presentation is significant. It is therefore clear that at a later stage further factual information of importance could be provided. The presentation I now give of the matter is therefore given with these reservations. All times must be understood as approximate indications. All the recordings I now base my review on will be made publicly available at noon. 12th@item: inlistbox The Oslo Police District Operation Centre received the first report of the bomb explosion in the government quarter at 1 p.m. 15,26. The message was immediately read to all the car patrols. First car patrol arrived Young's Gate at the People's House at 4 p.m. 3:28 a.m. and 15.30. the police district bombing group moved out of its own office. Police chief in charge was present in Akersgaten from 9 p.m. 3:32 p.m. Within an hour, the emergency team had 23 officials in and around the government quarter, as well as five staff members. The emergency response team, together with the bombing team, was used for search in the government quarter and in other missions. All available teams were put into the work of caring for life and health in the government quarter and in neighbouring streets. In addition, many volunteers with invaluable efforts. Police set up command post for the Einar Gerhardsen power station. Youngstorget was chosen as a meeting place for police personnel, the Oslo Fire and Rescue Department and the ambulance service. At the same place, a pool was set up for damage and evacuation. I don't know. In 15,46 the police district was informed that there were possibly two unexploded bombs in the area. This resulted in a short-term evacuation of the rescue teams. Furthermore, the police received notices of suspicious objects and suspicious behaviour at the Oslo Centre which it was necessary to investigate further. This was resource-intensive. Kripos contacted the operating centre in Oslo on his own initiative a little after noon. 16:00 to request information about the event in the government quarter. Kripos received a description of the situation and a request that a national alarm be launched with warning that a specified vehicle was of interest to the police and could be placed in the context of the explosion in Oslo Centre. Immediately after this, the police districts Asker and Bærum, Romerike and Follo were informed by the operations manager about the same vehicle as well as about the person with uniform, weapons and bulletproof helmet. Kripos informed me that it took approx. 25 minutes to execute the alert to all police operating centres, i.e. from the request for alerting, until it was communicated to all the police districts of the country. Cripos communicated to the police districts at national alarm ca. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 18.10 that it was decided to reintroduce border controls at the internal borders of Schengen, i.e. the borders of Norway with other Schengen countries. In total, it was between 22 and 24. in July, transmitted nine national alerts from Kripos. The operation centre in Northern Buskerud police district received, via the Emergency Medical Communications Center, AMK, the first phone on the attack on Utøla at 1 p.m. 5:25. The Northern Buskerud Police Department, in its statement of 2 November 2011, informed that at that time a crew of five officials were assigned to the Hønefoss police station. In addition, the police district had five officials working elsewhere in the district and at a longer distance from the Utøya. Notifications were made from the operating centre, so more crews were put in place in a short time. During the evening and the night was about 60 officers from Nordre Buskerud Police Department at work. Oslo police districts reported that they had been informed about the shooting at Utøya at 5 p.m. 17.29. The information came from the Liaison of the Police Directorate in the police district staff, who had telephone contact with her daughter on Utøya. The conversation was an important element in the assessment of the fastest possible call-out to the Utjah, and it was decided that the emergency forces would suspend their tasks in the government quarter and go to the Utjah to assist the Northern Buskerud police district. Only a small force of the rescue team remained in Oslo. Oslo Police District received at 5 p.m. 17.38 formal request from Nordre Buskerud Police District for emergency assistance. The Oslo police district reported that when the request was made, the first vehicle from the emergency team had already passed Lysaker. On the way to Utøya, the emergency team received information that there were allegedly two to three perpetrators and that there were to be explosives in the forest on Utöya. It has subsequently been shown that it was a correct and important decision to send the main weight of the emergency teams to Utøya quickly. On request, the police have informed that police preparedness was at the same time being built up in Oslo by convening crews. In this context, I would like to recall what I initially said, the importance of assessing events in real time. The police did not ignore the possibility of further attacks in Oslo. We know from acts of terrorism internationally that it is not uncommon for a bomb attack in a city to be followed by one or more attacks in the same city. This uncertainty was part of the situation for those who made the many very demanding operational assessments. I mean this citizen for thought. The first police patrol from Northern Buskerud Police District arrived in Utøya Kai ca. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" Seventy-five. The emergency team's meeting place was at Storøya, and they were there approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 18.09. The police have also informed that the emergency team landed at Utøya at 1 p.m. Eighteen twenty-five. When the police arrived, the perpetrator was quickly located. The emergency team informed me that the perpetrator was caught at 5 p.m. Eighteen twenty-seven. The material from the Nordre Buskerud police district indicates a later time, between hours. 18:32 and 6:32 a.m. 18:34. In connection with the attack, the perpetrator informed that two additional cells were outsourced or were active. Kripos informed me that this message was sent to all the police districts as a national alarm at 1 p.m. Eighteen-fifty. Family centres were established both in Oslo and at the Sundvolden Hotel. A national telephone number for relatives was also established. Furthermore, contact with relatives was established in the police districts. At other levels, too, there was considerable work. When the explosion occurred in the government quarter, there was an on-call in the police department's emergency department in the directorate. On further management, the Executive Board notes on 1 November 2011 that it immediately took action to notify central management of the Executive Board and that additional crews were called in. The defence liaison in the police department was called in and met in the directorate at 5 p.m. 1655. Furthermore, it was decided to send liaison from the Police Directorate to the Oslo Police District. On the situation on Utøya, the Directorate of Police informs, among others. – and I quote: ‘POD was briefed on the situation on the Utøya, logged until 1 p.m. 1745 22.7. The information went on that person in police-like uniform had shot himself around the Ut Island in the Tyrifjord. At that time, POD had no information to suggest that there would be a connection between the Utøla and the explosion in the Government Quarter.» In addition, the Executive Board shall: ‘When it became known that two events were related, the police director decided early in the evening, at about 0 p.m. 1900, to give responsibility to the police chief in Oslo to coordinate the tactical efforts between the police districts concerned.’.» The situation centre of the police security service was immediately notified by its own employees that there was an explosion in the Oslo Centre. The situation centre immediately initiated the alerting of key personnel. The centre was logged on to the Oslo Police District Operational Log and was able to continuously follow the operational actions undertaken. In the initial phase, the personnel of the PST focused on the appropriate organisation of the necessary staff functions, which are pre-planned for exceptional events. On further handling, PST will be informed by letter dated 4 November 2011 inter alia: the following: ‘The main priority of PST after the explosion in the government quarter was to establish an information acquisition device. The purpose of the information collection was to identify who was behind the explosion, prevent and avert any further attacks, and to identify the threat situation. The information should also provide the basis for the analysis work carried out by the PST, including the preparation of threat assessments. It was quickly clarified that Oslo Police District was to be responsible for the investigation and the PST prepared assistance for the investigation. The PST is responsible for the protection of officials and called all available bodyguards immediately after the explosion. The damage in the government quarter resulted, inter alia, in the failure of the government’s car service to move its cars, and the bodyguard section therefore carried out the transport and close insurance of five members of the government.’ I was myself out of town – in Engerdal – when the attack took place in Oslo, so I gave it at 1 p.m. 15.41 Deputy Ministerial Council of the Ministry of Justice to assess and forward police assistance requests for enforcement assistance and operational assistance to the Ministry of Defence. During the management of the attacks on 22 July, the Ministry of Justice held the role of the Ministry of Justice as the Ministry of the Interior, and the Government’s crisis support unit supported this work. The crisis support unit staff physically withdrew from the situation centre on the first floor of the high-block and approached immediate alerting of the event. The crisis support unit moved quickly into assigned premises in the Ministry of Defence, and several persons from the unit emergency team were called up. The crisis support unit has mobile solutions that make the unit flexible and has been operating on alternative premises. I am very grateful to them. Representatives from the permanent members of the Government Emergency Council and parts of the Ministry of Justice's administrative management met in the Ministry of Defence at 5 p.m. 5:00. The Government’s Emergency Council held two further meetings in the evening of 22 July, respectively at 9 p.m. 6:30 a.m. and 6:30 a.m. 22.30. I arrived at the government's showroom at 4:00 p.m. 7:40. For the period up to 1 p.m. 20.25. Also arrived the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence. The Ministry of Justice set up a liaison office in the Directorate of Police for some time. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 20 to facilitate communication and to provide timely information to the Government Emergency Council and the Ministry of Justice. In the following I will address some emergency issues that have been given particular attention. Questions have been raised about the emergency team's transport from Oslo to Utøya and the possibility of helicopter support in that connection. The Oslo police district reports that so far in the evaluation work it has been registered that the leadership of the emergency team was in first contact with the Defense 720 squadron on helicopter assistance approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" Sixteen-fifths. In a letter dated 28 October 2011, Oslo continued to express its views on police districts. the following: ‘The aid for helicopters was not available. Moving by vehicle was therefore the only option you had. Although helicopter support had been available and had been considered time-efficient, in any case parts of the intervention force would use a vehicle for movement from the Government Quarter to the meeting place in Hole Municipality.’ I don't know. 17.09 landed a rescue helicopter at the Battle of Violence in Oslo, which came from the Rygge Air Station. Oslo Police District in notes of 4 November 2011, inter alia: that the rescue helicopter from Rygge was recruited by AMK through the Central Rescue Centre of South Norway and intended to play a role in the possible removal of stretcher patients from Oslo. The helicopter was then set up. This request was unknown to the Oslo police district at the time of notification of shooting at Utøla. 17.29. Furthermore, Oslo Police Districts in notes of 8 November 2011, inter alia: the following: ‘If the police knew about this helicopter and wanted to use it for transportation to the Great Island, they would have had to take out [and] dismantle equipment, release the helicopter from the HRS’, i.e. the Main Rescue Center, ‘and brief the crew before it could facilitate the Battle of Violence. This would be a clean transport and not a sharp insertion based on the nature of the SAR machine. The main weight of crews would additionally use cars...’» I've noticed Oslo police district information about this. However, if the police had been familiar with the helicopter on the Voldslökka, more conditions had to be included in the assessment of whether helicopter transport would lead to a faster exit to the island than the use of a car. I think here, among other things. on voyage time to the helicopter, transhipment time, characteristics of the helicopter and weather conditions, which have also been travelled in the media. It is difficult to conclude today about this, and in my opinion it is up to the 22nd July Commission to assess these matters in more detail. The government, which I will come back to, has nevertheless chosen to strengthen helicopter capacity for police transportation support. Also questions about why officers from the Northern Buskerud Police District did not immediately try to get out to Utjay, including questions about the police’s understanding of the ‘shooting’ guidelines have been raised. Initially, I find it necessary to clarify that there is no separate instruction on ‘shooting ongoing’, but that the topic is addressed in the Manual of Response Personnel, which is part of the police’s emergency response system. This can be seen, among other things: the following: ‘In notifying that shooting is ongoing in densely detained areas, the police shall make every effort to stop the perpetrator as quickly as possible, so as to minimise the harm to innocent third parties.’; [[indoor or outdoor]] The Northern Buskerud Police District reports on 2 November 2011 in particular: the following on this ratio: ‘Nordic Buskerud planned to act with its own crews, but since the Emergency Response Team arrived at an early stage, this became a cooperation. Both the crews from Nordre Buskerud and the Emergency Team were ready on the country side when the boat transport arrived in Storøya.’ There is no doubt that the police are required to carry out duties which could pose a significant risk to the officials involved. The tasks must be carried out professionally and within the limits set for the service. In their assessments, officials must, inter alia: decide how dangerous the mission is, both in terms of its own safety, in terms of the life and health of others and, in particular, the ability to succeed in the operation and the speed with which assistance from others can be expected, in this case the emergency team. As regards the assessments made, we have to await the 22nd of July Commission and their assessments and conclusions. In addition, I would point out that through its evaluation, the Directorate of Police will look at the ‘shooting’ guidelines. If there is any doubt about the understanding afterwards, the Ministry of Justice will make a special assessment of this. Questions have also been raised about transport and the place of meeting. In this context, it is widely known that the police boat crashed during the transport to Ut Island. On these issues, Nordre Buskerud states police districts, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In the first hectic phase, the police had no access to boats other than their own. In the area where the police had their meeting place there were many boats to dock, several of which tried to ‘tap’, but the boats were well secured by their owners. The police are therefore unable to use these boats. On the other hand, the police ordered two boats, which were called from the docks at Liagård, to travel to Stor Island to assist the Emergency Team with transportation. There were these boats loaded from the police's own boat." Northern Buskerud Police District further points out: «The incident took place on a Friday afternoon, with some very high traffic on the E16 past Hønefoss, which is the road from the police station to Utøya. [[or]] The area of the road network on the land side of the Utøya was characterized by bypassing, a lot of roadwork and the danger of not getting there with a car hanging. [[and]] The choice of the place of release was made with the background in this, as well as that the place that was chosen was well known by the boatmaster and is a place used several times by the police in connection with exercises. The assessment meant that less time would be spent on water than in tight traffic with few or no means of rapid progress.» The police district of Oslo also informed that the emergency team drove cars to an agreed meeting place on Storøya, and that the crossing from Storøya to Utøya took place in boats as they became available. I assume that assessments related to the choice of transport and venue were made, and I believe that it is up to the 22nd July Commission to assess whether these are correct assessments in real time. On messages from the surrender perpetrator, Nordre Buskerud Police District states the following: ‘It is known that he has access to the police emergency number 112 – twice. One call was received at the Operation Centre in Nordre Buskerud and the other at the Operation Centre in Søndre Buskerud. Both calls were made from telephones that did not belong to the perpetrator. The conversation with Nordre was broken by the perpetrator after approx. 30 seconds – when it was tried to call back, no contact was reached. The conversation with Søndre lasted for approx. 1 minute and 30 seconds, but was also here after each break, and the police did not register any telephone number they called from. The police tried to obtain as much information as possible from the perpetrator, but there was little evidence that he intended to surrender at the times he called. This is supported by an emergency call immediately after the first request from the perpetrator to surrender, a quick shot speed is heard. The second request to surrender was made shortly before the attack.» The talks between the police and the perpetrator have been published in the past, and these have taken place approximately. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 17.59 and 18.24. I noticed that the police were trying to both keep and establish a new contact with the perpetrator without doing so. Different communication issues related to both the emergency network and the police emergency number 112 have been the subject of the attacks. The Oslo police district has stated that the emergency network, according to their assessment, functioned according to their intention. However, Northern Buskerud police districts have not been able to install the new emergency network and thus operate with the old analogue link. The Northern Buskerud Police Department, in its presentation of 2 November 2011, provides information, inter alia: the following: ‘It is not possible to communicate with the new emergency network from the centre of Nordre Buskerud. Several police districts that assisted Oslo, Asker and Bærum Søndre Buskerud, as well as health, used the new emergency network. [[and]] This made communication from the operating centre to the crews of these districts difficult. Further development of a nationwide emergency network was decided before 22.7, and Nordre Buskerud was already planning a new network before the event. The analogue link and communication between the operating centre and its own crews did not function optimally. In the area of the event, there is some poor connection coverage, and sometimes no contact was made between the crews or between the operating centre and the crews. The traffic in the connection was extremely large, and the capacity to receive and process the information was a challenge. [[and]] The same was true of the huge phone call. The reception capacity combined with old equipment did not give priority to the most important telephones first." Nordre Buskerud Police District reports that at the start of the event on Utøya, only one person was in charge of the 112-phone at the Operation Centre. At the explosion in the government quarter, the operation centre of Oslo Police District was staffed by one operation manager, four operators and three operators’ assistants. On the police emergency number, Oslo Police District states that the district did not have technical problems with lines up to 112, but that the progress in this situation was greater than the number of people who could receive 112 calls. Between 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. 3:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. became 60 p.m. of the emergency calls of 112 answered within 20 seconds. However, the Operational Centre had problems getting in touch with the Nordre Buskerud police district, but the information coming in was passed on to the emergency team representative in the Northern Buskerud police station. Nordre Buskerud Police District states the following on emergency numbers: ‘Emergency number — 112 to the Northern Buskerud Operations Centre consisted of 2 lines to the Central. In practice, two emergency calls could be received at the same time, the third person who called got busy and did not get through.’ I find that if the new emergency network had also been completed in the Northern Buskerud police district, this would have greatly facilitated our communication. Questions have also been raised about the time spent on watchkeeping and securing outsourced building objects after the Oslo estimate, including the protection of the Stortinget. Oslo police districts in their letter of 28 October 2011 stated that a list of 24 objects was drawn up, which was prioritised according to the relationship with the guard. Further statements are made, inter alia: the following on these matters: ‘In the afternoon, the identity of the perpetrator was also known as well as the manifest that had been posted on the Internet. In the manifest, there were eight ‘hat objects’ that were also checked out. The police didn't ignore a possible attack no. two, cf. modes of international and own up-to-date planning, and resource allocations based on such scenario.’;» Furthermore, in a note of 8 November 2011 on watchkeeping at Stortinget, Oslo Police District informs: ‘The object protection mission was given to the Centre Police Station at 2.30 p.m. 1708. The store was occupied with its own crews from at 4 p.m. 1805 on 22.7.11 That you had to get additional crews into the assignment. [[due to]] After the bomb explosion in the Government Quarter, Oslo police district received several reports of suspicious objects. One of these messages that the police responded to was logged at 1546 with the address Stortingsgata 14. We thus had police forces present in the area of Stortinget from approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 1550 on 22.7.11.’ There have been questions about possible delays in dealing with police requests for assistance from the Defence Agency. Based on the information I am sitting on today, however, it does not seem to have been an unnecessary delay in the transmission and the execution of these requests. The Minister of Defence will give details of the various requests for assistance and their treatment in his statement. Another aspect that has been given considerable attention is the knowledge and follow-up of the Global Shield project by PST. I have been informed by PST that the PST received information about the Global Shield for the first time on 22 September 2010, and then as a briefing from Kripos. The project is aimed at illicit trade in chemicals that can be used in the production of explosives. PST was not the main address for the Global Shield information, but received the project information for information. In a letter dated 27 October 2011, PST informed, inter alia: the following: "PST received several documents on the Global Shield project after this. Central in this context is a transmission from the Directorate of Customs and Fees on 3 December 2010 on a named Norwegian citizen that could be related to the project.’;» I make it clear that this named citizen was not the perpetrator on July 22nd. Further PST states: ‘In addition, there was a list from the currency register of over 41 Norwegian citizens who have had transfers of funds to a bank account number in Poland. [The striker] was among the 41 Norwegian citizens.’ The transaction list also showed that the perpetrator acted for 121,22 kroner. It didn't show what kind of goods this was all about. The PST also states that the internal evaluation of the service has so far clarified that the service has not had a searchlight on the perpetrator before 22 July or found other information about him in the PST from before 22 July. Here we must also await the personal review of the PST and, of course, the Commission's conclusions. I will now briefly mention the investigation and the forthcoming trial. As early as the evening of 22 July, the attorney general decided that Oslo Police District would be responsible for the investigation of both the bombing operation in the government quarter and the shooting at Utøya. A separate group of 140 people was quickly established to carry out the investigation. With effect from 1 November, the number of persons involved in the case has been reduced to 85, and further reductions are expected to be made to approximately 85. 60 people from the turn of the year. Investigation is expected to be completed before Easter 2012. The trial is for Oslo District Court. In any crisis situation where people are killed or injured, it is essential to take care of and care for all those involved. A number of commemorative ceremonies were arranged in time after July 22. A memorial was also held in the government quarter of August 8 for employees in the departments and a collection for the survivors and affected in the government quarter of August 20. In addition, several events have been held on Utøya for both survivors and relatives. Terrorism attacks also attracted considerable international attention. The progress of the international media was very high from the very beginning, and many foreign politicians and others contacted both to express sympathy and to condolences. In the days following the revelations, memorials were arranged in a number of countries around the world. Several of the victims of the Utaya were foreign youths, and the foreign service bisto the victims and their relatives with help and follow-up. So to the challenges ahead. The government has as one of its most important tasks to fight all threats to our democracy and ensure the security of the population. The government has chosen to significantly strengthen the budgets of the police and prosecution authorities over the last few years. The allocation has sessioned from 8.2 billion in nominal terms. kr in 2005 to SEK 12,2 billion. kr in 2011 – an increase of about 4 billion. kr. Next year, a further increase in the police budget of 696 million is proposed. kr. In addition, the government proposes that about 1.5 billion be allocated. SEK in 2012 for investments in the nationwide development of Emergency Networks and SEK 526 million. kr for the operation of the Emergency Network and the Emergency Communications Directorate. It thus provides for a significant strengthening of social security and preparedness already in the 2012 budget. The government's long-standing commitment to increased resources for the police, including: by doubling the admission to the Police College, several annual works and increased budgets, continue in the government's proposals for the 2012 government budget. However, good preparedness is not just about increased appropriations. It is also about addressing the political challenges and – I would like to stress – the challenges that are emerging. In the light of this statement, I see so far seven main areas which should be the subject of important political debates in the future. In this way, I am happy to have the opportunity in this statement to present what I think so far are seven important areas. Firstly, the prevention and radicalisation of violent extremism: The prevention work must be based on today's threat picture, and I will therefore give a brief description of this. Initially, I recall that for several years, the PST has assessed that extreme Islamists are the most serious terrorist threat to Norway and Norwegian interests. This assessment has not been modified since 22 July. In its open threat assessment of 29 July 2011, the PST indicates that the sea of few persons in Norway supports extreme Islamism, the level of activity in some extreme Islamic environments is high. On anti-Islamic environments, PST is shown in letters of 27 October 2011 including: and that such an environment has also developed in Norway over time. This development must be seen in the context of a general increase in the uptake of anti-foreign and immigration organisations in several European countries. Environments appear to have a larger and wider recruitment base than the right-hand extremes, for example. because members are initially not associated with traditional external right symbols and attitudes. The groups in Norway are primarily visible in different social media. For the time being, the threat appears primarily to be related to individuals associated with the environment. The PST, after the attack on 22 July, has been concerned about possible follow-up actions. Furthermore, the terrorist acts of 22 July show the challenges associated with the detection of persons planning and implementing terrorist acts alone. Such persons may be motivated by different ideological directions. The framework for PST's responsibilities is governed by the police law and includes serious criminal acts that threaten the security of society and fundamental social institutions. In this context, the prevention aspect is very important. Prevention involves, first and foremost, the identification of radicalised environments and individual actors with the resources and methods at their disposal at all times. In particular, it is important to identify whether the relevant environments and individual actors have the intention and capacity to carry out or support acts of violence. The government has over time decided to strengthen the PST budgets. In the period 2005–2011, the service budget has increased nominally by 61 pst, from 240 million. NOK 386 million. kr. The government budget proposal for 2012 proposes to strengthen the PST by a further 46,4 million. kr compared to the 2011 balanced budget. These means will include, inter alia: go to strengthen PST's work on open information gathering, the so-called OSINT, Open Source Intelligence, as among others. systematically collect open information from the Internet. It is expected that this reinforcement will improve access to relevant information within the entire area of responsibility of the service, but it is a very demanding work and a very extensive work. I have been asked on several occasions to provide more information about the threat picture and the PST's activities. In recent years, therefore, the government has chosen a transparency line for the service. Since we joined in 2005, we have chosen to be open, among others. the budget and staff of the service. Furthermore, since 2010, an expanded annual national threat assessment, which is public, has been developed. In recent years, The Justice Committee has been invited to the PST and presentations have been made in the Stortinget. Various teams have raised questions about the resource situation in the PST. The July 22 Commission is free to assess this. However, I think it might be wise to have an external review of the resource situation, so that there is the best possible basis for dealing with the future budgets of the PST. I also mention that on 1 December 2010, the government presented the Joint Security Action Plan – Joint Responsibility – i.e., 1 December 2010 – to ensure a broad and coordinated effort to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism. This prevention work cannot be done by the police alone. With broad cooperation between different actors at an early stage, we facilitate more effective prevention and thus increase security. As I see it, good forms of work and analysis of the threat scene in both the police and the security services as well as good national and international cooperation with all relevant actors are crucial. A broad prevention effort at an early stage, before extreme attitudes become violent acts, is, together with a targeted strengthening of preparedness, vital to our security. I would therefore urge the Stortinget to hold a broad debate on the prevention of radicalisation and violent extremism. Secondly, the framework conditions of the PST and the police depend on the legal organisation of the use of adequate methods: In recent years, access to methodology by both police and security services, such as space listening, communication control and base station searches, has been significantly strengthened and expanded. Terrorist legislation is also up-to-date. In this respect, I am pleased that Stortinget has agreed that the Data Storage Directive will be implemented in Norwegian law. In my opinion, this tool is very important for the police to be able to prevent and combat serious crime such as terrorism. At the same time, the debate on the Data Storage Directive highlighted the dilemmas related to privacy and what the police should be able to record and monitor. These are important issues that the Storting must also be prepared for in the future to address in other contexts. The Ministry of Justice is now following up the Methodological Control Committee’s investigation, Hidden Information — Open Control, which deals with police investigation methods and the processing of information in criminal matters. In addition, the Ministry has for some time been working on the issue of further criminalisation of acts that may be in preparation for terrorist acts. Law changes in the area of terrorist legislation have so far been mainly for the eye to action by several involved and where preparations are typically carried out in cooperation between several. Actions taken on 22 July 2011 largely raise the question of whether existing legislation adequately affects preparatory actions when there is only one perpetrator inside the picture, so-called solo terrorism. Furthermore, the Ministry has recently received an evaluation of a proposal from the PST on changes in terrorist legislation and methodology. There is a fundamental issue of new methods and criminal provisions that are always the way to prevent new crime. We must always ask ourselves whether today's methods have been sufficiently exploited before we introduce new rules. Important issues are the borderline between privacy, individual freedom and society’s need for security. I therefore believe it is important that we take the necessary time to work on any legislative changes. No changes in this type of legislation have been particularly good when they have been caught in the wake of crisis situations. That is why I would encourage us to take this important political debate. Privacy, freedom and security for citizens must be debated together. The third main area I see is the expectations we have for the response time in the emergency room: The emergency seat, and not least the police response time, is an important question for the Storting. With response time, I aim at the time it takes from the police receiving a notification of an incident until the police are on site. Norwegian police will find it difficult to meet a demand for equal response time in all geographical areas. To that is our country too far and too far. We need to have a debate in the future on what to expect of response time when extreme situations arise. The police helicopter service was evaluated in 2007. The evaluation pointed to several areas where more cost-effective operation could be achieved. As briefed in the revised national budget in 2007, the Police Directorate was assigned the same year to define the emergency requirements for the helicopter service, the technical requirements and the organisation of the service. At the beginning of 2011, the Ministry of Justice commissioned the Directorate of Police to investigate the purchase of a new helicopter and to assess the need for a reserve helicopter. In order to strengthen helicopter preparedness in the police, the government in the 2012 draft budget has proposed an increase of 29.7 million. kr for enhanced police helicopter preparedness. The purpose of the reinforcement is to establish a 24-hour continuous service, to strengthen the manning and to conclude a lease for a spare helicopter. The government also proposes to increase the appropriation by 50 million. kr to continue the process of acquiring new survival helicopters and 40 mills. kr to strengthen the maintenance of today’s rescue helicopters. The requirement specification for the new rescue helicopters includes the possibility of supporting the police in the fight against particularly serious crime, in particular terrorism. I remind you that this has been discussed. Not everyone agrees. Based on the base structure with six bases, 24-hour continuous presence and a response time of 15 minutes, rescue helicopters will be an important response resource for the police throughout the country. If you talk about airborne support for Norwegian police, this is a very important player, both now and for the future. The Ministry of Justice will therefore, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Defence, clarify the guidelines for the assessment and prioritisation of the police's request for the use of rescue helicopters in emergency situations. In my opinion, it is important to ensure that police assistance needs are given high priority. I also remind you that the defense, as you know, has recently established a military helicopter standby with Bell 412 at the Rygge Air Station, which can, on request, provide administrative transport assistance to the police. This will be discussed by the Minister of Defence. It is important for the response time that we ensure that some of our most operational response forces are ensured better facilities, in terms of both improved resource use, rapid response time and training. Against this background, the government is now giving priority to planning the establishment of a new police emergency centre in Oslo for the purpose of bringing together helicopter services, emergency teams and dog services in the Oslo police district. In this context, I would also like to remind you that the government in the 2012 budget is proposing to increase the allocation of 25 million to the emergency response team. kr for additional equipment acquisitions. Education and training are also important elements of police preparedness and crisis management. Police higher education has established a number of multi-level educational services in the field of civil crisis management. This includes, inter alia: Staff training and annual studies for police operation leaders and intervention leaders and basic training in combating terrorist acts. From 2007, the Police Directorate has conducted a major annual cooperative exercise, Exercise Tyr, to strengthen police districts’ capacity for crisis management. Exercise Tyr 2011 was scheduled for the government quarter. However, important elements of this exercise will be included in the exercise planned in 2012. This includes the object protection of a government building in Oslo. In 2012, the government will present a comprehensive public security report. I want to add in this message that we still have a high level of ambition for civil exercises. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Justice started a work in November 2010, the so-called performance reform, which includes: will look at the tasks and organisation of the police as well as assess the development of the police and officers' seat, in particular to bring up a debate not only on resources, but also on how we use resources. A central part of the work will be assessments related to preparedness, manning, equipment and response time. The attacks on 22 July also show the need to assess the capacity, organisation and other issues related to the operation of police district operational centres. There will necessarily have to be a limit to what will be a realistic response time for the police, but I think it is important that the Storting should also go into this debate about what is to be considered an acceptable response time. The fourth main area I want to highlight is communication challenges: Communication is central to police and other rescue and emergency activities. The Emergency Communications Directorate has evaluated the operation of the emergency network on 22 July by analysing traffic data and information provided by emergency services in different forums. In Oslo the center was about 1,000 emergency radios in use, and at Utøya it was registered at the base of 300 radios. New emergency network, as previously explained, is not developed in the Northern Buskerud police district, where Ut Island is located. However, the distance to Søndre Buskerud police district, where the emergency network is extended, is short. This meant that emergency network radios could be used, inter alia: response personnel coming from surrounding districts. As a result, communication between the different actors was a challenge during the Osteoporosis effort. New emergency networks are known to be established in the Central East. The majority decided on 9 June 2011 to extend the Emergency Network throughout mainland Norway. This is a significant contribution to increased social security, which will provide the emergency and emergency seat in Norway with a new and modern radio link. The government considers it important to continue the development and operation of a new nationwide emergency network. That is why the budget has been proposed for 1.5 billion. kr in 2012, to ensure progress. The statement also shows that the capacity of emergency number 112 can be very vulnerable. In this regard, I am informed that the Directorate of Police is in the process of assessing the need to strengthen the reception capacity of the operational centres, and, as I said, there is therefore a work going on to see how we organize this over the whole country in the alerted notification I referred to instead. Robust communication networks can be crucial in many situations. The priority of the Network for Important Messages is another issue. The capacity of emergency centres and their organisation, for example: co-location is complex challenges that we need to be willing to address. This is also a debate that I believe needs to be addressed, and which relates to the capacity, structures and vulnerability of communication between emergency situations. The fifth main area I see is what protection and protection of exposed objects we're going to have in the future: We have a long tradition that big city representatives and state councils can move freely in society. However, from our neighbouring countries, we have seen that there has been a longer-term regime for security around national politicians than in Norway. The employees of Stortinget and the departments are also required to take adequate safety measures at their place of work. Today, I am pleased to note that the departments affected by the bomb explosion on 22 July are in good operation in new or temporary premises. The government or ministries were never out of function, but many still have demanding jobs. After 22 July, a work has been undertaken by the Ministry of Renewal and Administration to rebuild the Government Quarter and to review the security of the departments where they are currently located. The attack may require additional security measures. I believe that, in parallel with this work, we must start a fundamental debate on how we, as politicians, want our society to emerge. After July 22, the government has stated that we want more openness and more democracy, but not naivety. At the same time, we need to ensure that the functions of government and the Storing are not out of function. I think you should have a broad, principled debate about just these questions. Sixthly, the interaction between police and defence: Norway is, as I said, a long-distance country and with a scattered settlement. It would not be appropriate for large establishments to build themselves up without interaction. Therefore, one of the defence policy objectives in Norway is that the defence should also contribute to ensuring Norwegian social security, saving lives and limiting the consequences of accidents, disasters, terrorist attacks and attacks. As I have pointed out earlier, and as the Minister of Defence will go further, the defence assistance to the police is regulated in a separate instruction. Furthermore, a separate police/defence liaison mechanism has been established to ensure rapid response. However, we should be able to engage in a debate and address issues of further interaction between police and defence within the boundaries set by the Constitution. Responsibilities have been clarified in recent years and should not be problematic in itself. It is important to respect the role of the defence in order to safeguard Norwegian sovereignty, but we should also look at whether defence should place even greater emphasis on its civil society assistance function when it is planned, invested and practiced. Both the role of defence and police is to protect democracy and to provide security for the citizens of Norway within their respective areas of responsibility. The debate I am referring to here, and which the Minister for Defence also comes up with, is a debate I also think we should take. A seventh and last area is not least care and follow-up of victims and relatives after 22 July. The municipalities have in time been responsible for the psychosocial follow-up of those affected since 22 July. This responsibility is exercised in close cooperation with the specialist health service, and municipalities are supported by the competence of the regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and the prevention of maritime murder. The Health Directorate is following this work, which is of high priority and is still in progress. By providing the affected persons with a fixed contact person, and by providing close and proactive follow-up, municipalities shall contribute to the capture of individual needs and to the provision of assistance to the individual. Under the system of compensation for victims of violence, victims of terrorism may be compensated by the State for financial loss, upliftment and men's compensation, if this is not covered by other arrangements. The government has proposed to increase the budget by 30 million in the 2012 state budget. kr to the victims’ compensation authorities in order to ensure a more effective and good treatment of the applications. It has been decided that these applications may be dealt with by sea if the criminal case is not finally settled. In addition, the attacks have made clear the great need for information for the relatives, and we need to look at whether today's handling of this is good enough. It's all a responsibility that fellow humans have to be there for those who need it after these events. Many have suffered very great suffering, and they must never be forgotten. This will challenge us at more political levels and for a long time to come. I have now given a statement on, among other things. the actual conditions of July 22, as far as I am aware of the facts as of today, and so we're publishing all the notions on which the factual statement is based, in its entirety today. It's a continuation of the government's transparency line. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Justice has underlined to our relevant agencies the importance of helping to provide information to the July 22 Commission. We've all had heavy days behind us. Many still labor and look dark on the future. Many miss someone. On 4 August, I was asked to come to Ullevål Hospital to mark the 18th anniversary of Viljar Hansen, one of the young people on Ut Island who was severely injured by several shots. He was hard hit and weak. He immediately grabbed my hand and said, "Knut, there are so many good people out there." I am very pleased that Viljar is up and running today – and until all the majorities are active in local politics, as a newly elected representative of the local government in Longyearbyen. Perhaps his efforts and his will can be an example of the Prime Minister’s words: ‘more democracy, more openness, but never naivety’. I have now explained, among other things. police efforts and government actions against terrorism both before and after 22 July. Finally, the responsibility for the attacks is the sole responsibility of the perpetrator. It was a cowardly attack on democracy, on politically committed youth in Utja, on government and government employees. It is up to us all to show great responsibility in words and actions: that democracy must win. That is the political debate that I have now called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e527	In the following, I will explain the relevant aspects of the role and responsibilities of the defence sector in the area of social security, the defence resources in support of civil authorities and the basis for such support. Then I will give a presentation of the defence sector's handling on 22 July and the following days. Some questions have received a lot of public attention. I would therefore like to highlight them separately. I would also like to explain the immediate measures taken following the terrorist attacks on 22 July. The government will also provide a new long-term defence plan for the spring. Civil-military cooperation will be an important part of this plan. Some issues may also have to wait for the Commission’s report on 22 July. Defence has as one of its tasks the role of contributing to the security of society and other key societal tasks in the event of accidents, crises, natural disasters and terrorist attacks. The capacity of the defence to perform its primary tasks may be made available to the police upon request when assistance is required. At the same time, it is important to remember that the main task of the defence is to assert Norway’s sovereignty and defend us against external attacks. Consequently, the defence also has primary responsibility for dealing with terrorist attacks, which are identified as an armed attack under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. The police and the defense are the two central powers of the state. Together, the police and the defence must facilitate their means at all times and in the most effective, socio-economic and legitimate way possible to meet the challenges we face. At the same time, it is important to stress that some aspects of principle and formality need to be taken into account. In fact, they may, in the circumstances, prevent one of them from assisting the other. As a general rule, the defence's assistance to the police must be based on formal law. This follows from the second paragraph of Section 99 of the Constitution, which states that: «The Government is not entitled to apply military authority against members of the State, but according to the forms laid down in the legislation». The basic law provision has been interpreted in such a way that assistance to combat terrorism falls outside this general prohibition. Assistance in the form of logistical and administrative support, or assistance in the event of accidents and natural disasters, is also outside the substantive framework of the provision prohibiting the use of military power. In the case of search, apprehension and similar actions against dangerous persons, long and established defence assistance practices may be referred to and the prohibition of constitutions coined in completely different situations. This also means that such assistance is deemed to fall outside the scope of the provision. However, assistance to some other forms of crime control requires clear legal support. The town hall team in 1931 still stands in the minds of many as an important historical event that focused on the use of so-called military order protection in national conflicts. Units from the Army and the Marine were mobilized, but were not deployed as a means of power in the labour conflict at that time. The fundamental law provision has also been the focus of recent times, including: in connection with the demonstrations in the Pacific against the expansion of the Altavas era at the beginning of the 1980s. In some areas, there is currently a specific legal basis for military assistance, including: through the Customs Act, the Coast Guard Act and the Police Act. For example, the police law opens so that the military border guard can assist the police with border surveillance at the Norwegian-Russian border. Within these principles and overall frameworks, cooperation between the police and the defence is important in meeting today's and tomorrow's threats. Responsibilities have been clarified in recent years. Cooperation between the Defence and the Police is regulated by the Aid Instructions established by the Royal Resolution in 2003. The instructions are managed by the Ministry of Defence. The instructions distinguish between different types of assistance: Administrative assistance means transport, technical equipment lending and other administrative support. Operational assistance means assistance in the event of accidents and natural disasters, as well as assistance involving the elimination and elimination of explosives, etc. Enforcement assistance includes the search for, and apprehension of, dangerous persons and assistance in situations where there is a risk of estimation of a particularly damaging nature targeted at major societal interests. In the case of terrorist incidents, military personnel may be used to directly combat the terrorists as enforcement assistance. Administrative and operational assistance may be cleared by the Defence Operational Headquarters at the request of the relevant police officer. Enforcement assistance requires clearance at political level. In such cases, the Ministry of Justice shall send a request to the Ministry of Defence, which shall approve it. In urgent cases, direct contact is established between the police and the current assistance unit to start planning immediately, without waiting for a formal decision that assistance can be provided. In emergency situations, any chief may take initial action without regard to the formal clearance in order to avoid the loss of valuable time. It is important to stress that the formal requirements for the political recognition of enforcement assistance should not prevent rapid and ongoing clarifications and en-route approvals when the situation so requires. Such an approach was taken on 22 July. Cooperation between the justice and defence sectors in crisis situations and exercises has improved in recent years. This applies, inter alia, to: as regards procedures and procedures for requests for assistance. Good contact has been established between the Police Directorate and the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters and between the Police Directorate and the Defence Staff. Since 2007, a Liaison from the Defense Department has served in the Police Directorate. Some time later, a similar system was set up from the Police Directorate to the Defence Operational Headquarters. The Liaison function has strengthened contact between the justice and defence sectors and plays an important role in mutual updating, information exchange and coordination. Experience on 22 July confirms that the exchange ofliaison officers is an important measure. Cooperation between the Intelligence Service and the Police Security Service has also been considerably strengthened in recent years. The main task of the e-service related to terrorism is to identify groups or individuals abroad who have the capacity and intention to attack Norway or Norwegian interests. The e-service supports the Police Security Service in matters that have links to the rest of the world. The aid mainly takes place through the acquisition of information from abroad, technical support and analytical capacity. In addition, so-called surplus information is provided, including: information from cooperative services on individuals related to Norway or Norwegian conditions. Analysts from the E service and PST meet regularly for professional discussions and coordination on ongoing issues, for example related to threat assessments during VIP travel abroad and international terrorism assessments. On 22 July it was early clear that we were faced with very serious criminal acts, and that the main responsibility for dealing with the situation was therefore with the police. The task of the defense was thus to assist the police in the best possible way. The Ministry of Defence and Defence have carried out a thorough review of their own handling on 22 July and the following days. This is the basis for the statement I am making today. This basis also forms the basis for the defence input into the ongoing evaluation in the police and the work of the 22nd July Commission in addition to our own follow-up work in the wake of the terrorist actions. I use the times listed in the Defence logs. However, these must be included with a certain reservation, as they are not necessarily carried in real time due to high time pressure and high level of activity. This is a matter which the 22nd July Commission and the police's own evaluation will address. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the personnel from the Ministry of Defence established themselves in the Situation Centre of the Armed Forces on July 22nd, starting at 2.30 p.m. 3:30. The Situation Centre supports both the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Staff in crises. The main task is to establish and disseminate situational understanding, including logging. The bomb went off in the government quartet at 0 p.m. 15,26. At 3:32 p.m., I had the first contact with my own department. The Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces immediately established a crisis management device based on watchkeeping personnel, reinforced by the personnel who were still at work when the bomb narrowed, and called for reinforcements. Warnings were issued to the Political and Military Strategic Leadership of the Defence, and at 5 p.m. 15.50. Everyone was notified according to the alert list. Guard officer at His Majesty the King's Guard reacted immediately to the explosion in the reigning quartet, and approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 15.40 there is a registered contact with the Royal Police Card. From 1 p.m. 15.51 it is logged that the Garden has followed its own warning plan and initiated the reinforcement of the watchkeeping at the royal residences of the Castle, Bygdøy and Skaugum according to their standing mission. The defence has a self-responsive responsibility to secure military objectives, including in peacetime. Thus, the defence implemented its own anti-terrorism measures by departments throughout the country, including watchkeeping and security of the defence management building at Akershus, in addition to those royal residences. The e-service established contact with the police security service approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 15.40. The situation centre of the e-service is staffed on a daily basis. In addition, the E service recruited additional personnel to investigate any trace from abroad and to start the analysis work within its own area of responsibility. A liaison from the E-service was in place at the police security service on July 22nd, shortly after 9.00 p.m. 5:00. The Ministry of Defence early offered that the Government Crisis Council and the Crisis Support Unit could take a seat in the Ministry of Defence's premises when the crisis support unit's premises in the Ministry of Justice had to be evacuated. At 4:21 p.m., I gave a clear message to the Ministry of Defence that all requests from the police for assistance should be met quickly and effectively. This was passed on to the Defence. Many of the Departments of Defence carried out their own internal preparations pending a possible request from the police. Many interrupted on their own initiative and joined the department for service. Contact was very quickly established at tactical level between the police and some departments in the Defence Department, which have been specially prepared for support to the police. The defense's permanent liaison in the Police Directorate took place at the directorate's office at 5 p.m. 1655. In addition, it was at 0 p.m. 21.50 established liaison from Defense Operational Headquarters of Oslo Police District. In summary, the Ministry of Defence received a total of five formal requests from the police for enforcement assistance. All requests were first notified orally by telephone to the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Staff. It was notified back that the requests would be granted. The defense had already started to clarify the relevant resources before the police requested them. Afterwards, written requests were sent, and these were formally answered in writing. I will now present these five requests for enforcement assistance. So these are the times that are logged in to the Situation Centre. The first written request for assistance has been logged and received at the Situation Centre at 0 p.m. 19.09. and in writing, granted by the Ministry of Defence at 9.30 p.m. 19:33. This referred to enforcement assistance from the Special Command of the Defence. In addition, the Situation Centre logged that this request was received orally at 1 p.m. 18.44, and orally agreed at 6 p.m. 19.06. The defense was aware in advance that it would come through oral dialogue, and preparations had already begun at that time. Forces from the Special Command were on standby until 24 July, but were not put into action. The second written request for assistance has been logged at the Situation Centre at 0 p.m. 19.26, where additional enforcement assistance was requested from helicopters and the Explosive Explosive Services. This was granted in writing by the Ministry of Defence at 1 p.m. 20.06. The situation centre has logged in that this request was received orally at 0 p.m. 18-14. At that time, explosive scaffolding resources were already in operational assistance to the police in Oslo City Centre, and helicopter resources were being fully prepared. The situation centre has logged that the request was received orally at 0 p.m. 19.22. I'll get back to the helicopter gear later in the presentation. Let me first elaborate on the Explosive Services. About 1:00 a.m. 15.35. Chief of Defense called the Defence Ammunition and Explosives School to the Defence Operational Headquarters to discuss the possible need for assistance from the Explosives Service in the Defence. The Armed Forces Operational Headquarters decided very quickly that such personnel would be condensed and clarified at the Sessvollmoen as soon as possible. About 1:00 a.m. 15.54 alarmed the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters. Preparedness was maintained this day from Ørland. About 1:00 a.m. 18:00 the first team was ready for the effort of Youngstorget. Other layers were clear approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 18.45. The third team was transported with Sea King helicopters from Ørland to Oslo and the country approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" Eighteen fifty-eight. They were then driven immediately to the Oslo Centre, and the fourth layer came something after this. The resources were later redispatched from the Oslo Centre to assist the police both on Ut Island and on Åsta. The third written request for assistance has been logged to the Situation Centre at 0 p.m. 22.52 and agreed in writing at 2 p.m. 23.09. This applied enforcement assistance from HV-02 to security and security in Oslo on current objects, including the government quarter and the Stortinget. The defense has also logged that this request was received orally at 0 p.m. 22.24. The police were then aware that it would be granted. It was later decided that the Home Protection Agency would support the police in object protection of selected objects with effect from Saturday, July 23, at 11. 6:00 a.m. The fourth written request for assistance has been logged to the Situation Centre at 0 p.m. 23.09 and applicable enforcement assistance from a further three Bell and two Lynx helicopters to maintain air support over time. This request was granted in writing by the Ministry of Defence at 1 p.m. 23.56. Preparations had already been started, and the police were informed in advance. The fifth written request for assistance has been logged in at the Situation Centre on 23 July at 2.30 p.m. 02.15 and referred to enforcement assistance from Garden for the purpose of guarding and securing selected objects in Oslo Centre. The request for assistance was granted in writing by the Ministry of Defence at 1 p.m. 03.30. The request was for object protection with special emphasis at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Government Quartet, Stortinget and the Ministry of Environment, with effect from 23 July. 6:00 a.m. Both the Home Guard and the Garden were able to carry out the missions at the specified time because of the preparations that had already been made in advance. Also in the following days, from 23 to 25 July, assistance from several units in the Defence for the police continued. Explosives took part in the Oslo Centre, in the Ut Island and in the perpetrator's farm at Åsta. Garden and the Heimevertet maintained security and security of central buildings in the centre of Oslo. Further three Bell helicopters and two Lynx helicopters were – as I mentioned – moved from Bardufoss to Back to be at the disposal of the police from July 23. These were not used. Analytical resources from the E service were formally provided to the PST with full authority of instruction, including: to identify any international networks and connections of the perpetrator. The staff were seconded to the PST for the period 22 July to 9. August of this year. In addition, there are a number of specialists in stress testing, toxicology and communication. A number of other relevant capacities from all defence sectors were clarified for possible assistance, but not all were used. In total, it was about a quarter of the population. 530 personnel involved in support of the police in the period 22–25. in addition to a number of staff functions in the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Staff, the Defence Operational Headquarters and the E-service were strengthened. During the period following the acute crisis management, the defence has also contributed aid resources, including: during the visit of the survivors and their relatives to Utøya on 19 and 20 August. In addition, defence personnel participated in the planning and conduct of the national memorial ceremony in Oslo Spectrum on 21 August. The defence has also assisted with much support for trauma treatment and the follow-up of the civil sector personnel concerned through the participation of several of the Defence Stress Response Teams. Until the summer of 2009, the defense maintained a standby with Bell helicopters on the back. This helicopter capacity could also assist the police with administrative support and enforcement assistance upon request. In 2009, it was decided to extend the Norwegian helicopter contribution in Afghanistan, the so-called Norwegian Aeromedical Detachment – we know it as NAD. The Government consulted the Stortinget on this extension which would also reduce preparedness in Norway on 2 April 2009. It was clarified in a letter to the Ministry of Justice in September 2009 that the preparedness for Rygge would be terminated, and that the defense no longer had helicopters that would be ready at any time within a given time of standby. At the same time, it was emphasised that any request for helicopter support will be dealt with in a normal manner, but will depend on it at any time and locally available capacity. So the Bell helicopters on Rygge didn't have emergency measures on July 22nd this year. Despite this, and vacation time, the helicopters were in the air before the formal written request for assistance was made. So let me explain to you the activity that is registered prior to this: already at 1:00 p.m. 16.20. The Armed Forces Operational Headquarters notified the Airwing of Back to obtain an overview of the available helicopters and crew. From 1 p.m. 16.36. The convocation of crews was initiated. The defense has logged that the police emergency squad contacted the Bell squadron at Rygge approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 16.50 for feedback on what could be expected of air support capacity. At this point no helicopters were prepared, but it was informed that they would be made available to the police as soon as possible. Bell-helicopters took off from Rygge's clock. 18.57, 19.18 and 19.37. Following the terror of 22 July, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence have jointly assessed measures to improve in the short term helicopter preparedness in support of the police. One of the measures is the establishment of military preparedness with two Bell helicopters on Rygge from 1 October of this year, which, upon request, can support the police within two hours of emergency transport. With considerable goodwill from a hard-pressed environment and the supply of newly-trained personnel, it is now possible to establish this preparedness. Capacity is limited to administrative transport and does not include enforcement assistance. The scheme shall apply until 1 August 2012. Extension beyond this will be considered. The structure and capacity of the Home Guard are established to perform the military tasks. Today, the Home Office has a territorial responsibility and manages tasks such as: military watchkeeping and securing of essential features and infrastructure. Home security will also be able to provide assistance to the police upon request. The Home Security effort forces train on such missions and are therefore particularly relevant to such tasks. It was the effort forces from HV-02, located in Oslo, and HV-05, located at Elverum, as well as the Garden as the bisto police with object protection in Oslo Centre all this weekend. If additional strengths were needed, intervention forces from other districts in the region as well as the Sjöheimewertscommand could also be deployed. It is worth noting that the Home Guard was doing well within the emergency times set, even if it was in the middle of a common holiday. Issues relating to access to weapons and ammunition by the Home Office have also been addressed lately. Claims have been made that the short response period of 22 July posed challenges to the withdrawal of flint stamps and ammunition from stockpiles. HV shall have weapons and ammunition available within given timeframes. When operations on 22 July required a faster response time than these frames require, HV had limited quantities of ammunition available in Oslo. I can confirm that some of HV's personnel were initially installed with sharp ammunition originally calculated for practice purposes. The use of this type of ammunition by the defence is permitted in peacetime operations. The short response time posed a challenge with regard to the ignition pistons. Let me remind you that after several cases of thefts of weapons from the HV soldiers' bopel and some cases of anti-personnel drop-offs in which the weapons of home security were used, the Storting passed through the budget-inner. S. No 7 for 2006-2007, the withdrawal of the weapons’ ignition stamp was to be a permanent arrangement. I want to make sure that in the future there are arrangements that do not unduly delay the ability of the HV to make clear. In the wake of the terrorist attacks on 22 July, it is natural that all aspects of the defence sector's support for civil services in the event of serious incidents, accidents and disasters are reviewed, with the aim of providing defence even more effectively in a position to provide support to civil society. Both preparedness, resources and cooperation arrangements with the civil sector need to be reviewed. Some measures have already been taken. Helicopter readiness, as I just mentioned, is strengthened to provide better ability to assist the police. In cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, work was already under way before 22 July to review the applicable principles for the designation, classification and protection of property by security forces. The experience of 22 July will be drawn into this work. Furthermore, an assessment of the assistance file will be carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, with a focus on assessing its scope, procedures and command conditions. On 12 September I gave the Chief of Defence a clarification of the mandate for his ongoing work with the Trade Union Military Council to the forthcoming long-term plan. He was commissioned here to assess how the defence resources can be better organised and disposed of in order to provide police assistance within the relevant tasks and lines of responsibility. I'm receiving the Professional Military Council on 24 November this year. It will be assessed whether the defence's own procedures should include a requirement to immediately initiate internal preparatory activities if a serious crisis occurs or is suspected of such an occurrence and may be relevant with the assistance of the Defence. However, such a pro-active approach will have resource implications and needs to be carefully assessed in further work. Similarly, it should be assessed by the police whether more concrete requirements for pro-active warning of defence should be included in the manuals in emergency situations where there may be a later need for assistance. The chief of defence's professional military council is part of the basic material for the government's work on a new long-term defence plan. This will be presented in the spring of 2012. The Government assesses further actions that may have implications for the defence capabilities, structure and organisation. It is therefore necessary to look at these measures in a more comprehensive context. According to the applicable long-term defence plan 2009-2012, St.prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, the defence’s contribution to the safeguarding of social security shall be implemented on the basis of the structure, competences and capabilities established to resolve the primary military defence-related tasks. It is not initially earmarked for social security tasks. As such, they are not the design of the defense. However, for all practical purposes, several of the tasks in this category have a bearing on the composition and development of limited parts of the operational structure of the defence. Examples of this have already been mentioned. It is the Coast Guard’s assistance in the field of fisheries surveillance, coastal preparedness and towing gear, as well as the Defence Special Command with support helicopters on standby for maritime counter-terrorism. The further development of the defence structure and organisation will take into account the fact that the defence may be entrusted with more explicit but limited tasks related to safeguarding social security. These tasks may, for all practical purposes, have an even greater impact on the further development of the defence than has been the case so far. Further measures resulting from the recommendations of the 22 July Commission cannot be excluded either. I want to emphasize now that we must have the ability to handle the unexpected. It is therefore important to further develop robust and flexible preparedness and crisis management mechanisms in which all societal resources can interact and which are regularly practiced. Only in this way can we be as prepared as possible to deal with the breadth of the security challenges that the future can bring. The Commission has a broad mandate for its mission and will also be able to come up with views and recommendations on the division of roles between the defence sector and civil actors in crisis management. This is, in that case, a debate I welcome. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who made an effort on 22 July – both the defence sector and society as a whole. We already know that efforts were made to save lives, to bisto both those who were affected and their relatives, and to protect the interests, values and attitudes of society. We also know that we certainly have lessons to take with us from what happened, and how the events were handled. In addition to the important job the Commission is now doing, I am therefore happy to be allowed to explain here in Stortinget today together with the Minister of Justice. My Swedish colleague visited the Minister of Justice and myself two weeks ago. He reminded us of how Sweden still has uncertainties and reviews about what happened to the Estonia accident. This shows that uncertainty often persists for a long time after such national disasters. Our goal must be to establish so much facts and information early, that those affected and their relatives do not feel that the uncertainty will follow them for a long time in the future, and that we have ensured as quickly as possible that we have an overall resource use and preparedness that makes us the most equipped for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e666	The President will then propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 34a of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, that a brief comment round be opened limited to submissions of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Councils. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e671	I would like to thank you for two very good and thorough statements, from the Minister of Justice and from the Minister of Defence. I believe that they have given wide transparency to the Storting today in many of the relevant issues following the terrible terrorist attack on 22 July. I also believe that it was right and necessary for the Councils to give an account of the Storting at the moment. I agree with what the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence said and strongly emphasised, that it is important to be transparent about the action of the police, about the security and rescue work and, of course, about the defence's efforts. It is important and right that the new documentation presented in these two presentations, which is partly the basis for them, be published in full. It's just transparency and knowledge that can give us a good basis for an even better preparedness in the future, and it's only transparency that can help the relatives in their grief, so that they also get answers to all their questions. Also, I would like to stress that I understand that there are still questions that it will take time to answer, and it will be easy to draw non-slip conclusions too early. So we're not going to do that. It was an overall political Norway that set up the Commission that is now working to shed light on all aspects of the terrorist action in order to give us a comprehensive picture of how the disaster was managed. I am pleased to note that the Stortinget is still standing together behind this line of action. But it is nevertheless important that we have a readiness based on the knowledge we have so far gained after this tragedy. The government has therefore – as has already been said – promoted a number of proposals in the 2012 state budget, which have been set out here today. I agree with these proposals. The Workers' Group will come back to the concrete when the adjustment is made at Stortinget later in this session. That several of the information we already have will bring about changes in procedures, appropriations and strengthening our preparedness, is obviously, and I would say, absolutely necessary. The presentations show that the institutions we trust made sure that most of it worked when it really did. This must, in my view, be the basis when we also have to ask the difficult but unavoidable questions of response time, police planning, cooperation between defence and police, the role of the PST and several other important questions. Much of the political debate is now about the content of the word ‘security’. It can and must be strengthened in many fields. Exercises can make us better prepared, with competent, well-informed and well-equipped emergency seats. Plans, safeguards and legislation must also be improved. All of this we're going to have. However, I believe that no one in Norway could be well prepared for the boundless evil that hit the government quarter and Utøya. For the future, our security institutions and the political governance structure must continue to strengthen, renew and improve our preparedness. If we can't change the way we think about preparedness, it won't help with all the world's plans. If this is to be used effectively, we have to change the way we think about preparedness issues. There is room for improvement here. I would like to emphasise a point made in the Minister of Justice's statement, namely the political struggle against all forms of extremism in Norwegian society. It is perhaps one of the most important things that politics can contribute to, in order to create a civil society that has the power to resist what we experienced on July 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e692	I want to join here and thank you for the presentations, which were good summaries of what has been the focus and debate since July 22. I will also agree with what the Minister of Justice says, that the focus must never be different in terms of responsibility. There is one person who is solely responsible for what happened on 22 July, and that is the defendant. I also, like the Minister of Justice, would like to thank all those who have assisted and been involved in all sorts of ways around the event on July 22. I'm sure everyone within public offices and institutions, and the civil part, has done their all, the very best in the wake of this event. I am very pleased that we have received these statements, glad that these statements will lead to a process in Stortinget in parallel with the 22nd of July Commission. As both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice have pointed out, several communications and action plans in these areas are also coming before the conclusions of the 22nd of July Commission. I am addressing what the Minister of Justice has to say: the level of threats is exactly the same today as it was before July 22nd. Maybe it could also be further increased as a result of July 22. That's why it's important for the Progress Party to focus on some areas that we can quickly do something about, and that are being questioned. I record that the Minister of Justice is in the vast majority of areas, and I believe that these are areas that we can address quite quickly. This applies not least to the aid instructions. We hear from the logs and the times of the Minister of Defense that it took three and a half hours before the first aid request came, and it took eight and a half hours before the third aid request came. It is clear that it does something about our response time when we have the type of logging of time, and it does not happen quickly enough. I am also concerned about ‘shooting is ongoing’ – which is not an instruction, it is quite correct – because there are doubts about whether this was the case on 22 July. The Advance Party has received a reply from the Minister of Justice to a written question, that it was in force, and then it is clear that it is important to get an answer as to why it did not apply. Although there were different messages about the number of perpetrators, we saw 14 days ago that it was concluded that almost all the time we had known it was about one perpetrator. I am also very concerned about the command lines between the defense and the police. When you can't catch up and react faster than you've seen in this case, we have to go through this aid system and see if we can pick up something shorter response time here. When you're going through such a terrible event, it's also important that you're not afraid to take self-criticism. There is no doubt that, over the last 10 to 15 years, there has been a strong focus on preparedness and security: the Vulnerability Committee, in 2004, the PST presented its own risk analysis, we had an exercise in 2006, we have had open threat assessments that have always given us signals that we need to strengthen preparedness and security. In spite of this, we see – after 22 July – that we have major deficiencies. I register the seven points to the Minister of Justice, and I believe that structure in all these areas is very important. When we record that there are five police districts that are indirectly or directly involved – you have the security force, the Home Office, the E-service, the PST, the county council and emergency services to be coordinated – it may be important that we find another way of coordinating the system when that kind of event occurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e711	It's too early now to draw the final conclusions after the attack on July 22. The attacks in Oslo and Utøya had so cruel, so violent consequences and are so serious that the matter must be dealt with with with with thoroughness, the greatest caution and thoughtfulness, also in this House. I think we all felt chaos, uncertainty and fear that day. Those who stood in the middle of the dramatic events felt even more. Many had to make dramatic choices in seconds. Many made a heroic effort and saved many lives. Maybe someone could have acted differently. Certainly – with what we know today – the government could have done something different. And certainly – with what we know today – this assembly could have adopted other things in the years before. But to draw final conclusions about what should have been done better before, if someone has not followed up what they should, the Storting needs all the facts on the table, and they need it presented together. That's what Stortinget will get when the 22nd of July Commission delivers its report. Although today we see with clarity that July 22 has shown clear weaknesses in our preparedness for terrorism, we should never forget one thing – that there is one person responsible for July 22nd. The perpetrator and perpetrator alone is responsible for the attacks on July 22. On July 22, 2011, will always be remembered as one of the darkest days in the history of Norway. At the same time, the reaction of the Norwegian people in the days that followed was one of our nation's most proud moments. The reaction will shape and shape us for generations. I think it's worth remembering this when Stortinget starts today by making the very first assessments after the attacks. I don't think we honor the victims by beginning to blame. That's why we're not going to look for scapegoats, we're going to look for knowledge. The knowledge we gain will be used to improve prevention and security in line with our democratic ideals and our culture of transparency. The culture of openness must, above all, also apply to the relatives. It's a growing demand from the relatives to participate more, get to know more and hear more. Four months after July 22nd, they have a right to know more. Not all shall be retained for investigative purposes. It is felt as a protection of the streets when you don't provide more information than you do today. What preparedness Norway actually has, both in the police and in the defence, we know that we can differ from what we often hear and read in documents The Stortinget is presented. There's a difference between what we have on the paper and what we actually have. Therefore, it is necessary to put reality in place now and not just the paper plans. It is also necessary that all emergency and emergency missions work together, and that changes in them are also assessed in terms of their overall impact, and that there is a pragmatic approach to the use of resources, personnel and material between defence and police. For a long time, the right has wanted a police study, just to look at different parts of the police's tasks together with other tasks we have — not just for terrorist purposes, but for the whole fight against crime. I think that's important. But I also think it is good that today we have come one step further in the last year's discussion about getting an independent review of the PST, when the Minister of Justice today admits Right what we have tried to get to the last year: getting an independent review of the PST – not to look for scapegoats in this matter, but to know what capacity we have for the future. We're going to be naïve in the process we're going through right now. But it is also naive to believe that prevention and safety are only about barriers, grids, closed streets and window bombing films. Because there will always be one street in our cities that is not blocked and that can be a goal. There will always be one building where there are broken routes and where targets can be reached. And there will always, hopefully, be young people gathered in the open sky to discuss what kind of future they want. That's the society we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e726	I would first like to thank the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence for the good and thorough distribution. On behalf of the SV Group, I would also like to thank them and the rest of the government for the efforts made following the terrible terrorist attack. He has our importance, and he has our good. But on behalf of the group, I would not least like to thank all those who contributed to the rescue, relief and other work in connection with the terrorist attack – public agencies of all kinds, volunteers, all places they contributed. An important lesson from today's presentation is that many did a lot of important things like scared lives. Another important lesson from the distributions is that there are things that can be done better in extreme situations in the future. Many social institutions, royal houses, nobles, defense powers express their size through physical monuments. Democracy has our parliaments, but the size of democracy comes first and foremost through actions, through glances – the French Revolution, the fall of the Wall, Eidsvoll 1814, or small events, such as Rosa Parks who in 1955 refused to stand up from his seat in the department for blacks on the bus in Montgomery, Alabama. A white man would have her seat because it was full in the ward for whites. She was arrested, but it was the recording of a bus boycott that led to the end of the racial divorce on the buses in the city, and later on in the United States. Without comparison otherwise: The Norwegian people's reaction to the terrorist attack, the voluntary effort, the rose train, the love, the cohesion, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's penchant over more democracy, more openness – perhaps the most important single political settlement in Norway in recent times – is an example of a democratically important moment in our recent history. It's a big responsibility for the Storting to follow up and put into life that answer. That's why it's wise for the government to come to the Storting and sort it out now and publish all the background material for the distribution. From the SV side, we are forbidden to participate in the debate on all the main areas addressed by the Minister of Justice. The same is true of the challenges posed by the Minister of Defence. The debate must take place on a continuous basis, and the information will come gradually. Some conclusions are drawn; others will be drawn in the future. However, I would like to point out that the most important thing is that the conclusions are correct, not just fast, and I would like to take advantage of the chance to warn against having a party political debate on this. I would also like to draw up some other important perspectives. There are many examples that security and freedom are two sides of the same coin. Safety against accidents and attacks e.g. an important basis for our freedom. But there is also an example that security and freedom must be balanced against each other, because security measures deprive us of proximity to rulers, or the ability to communicate as freely as desired. In those cases, we must recognise the contradictions and debate them, which the Minister of Justice is taking the initiative. The political power in recent times in Norway has been exercised by the far right. In other countries, the image is different, but also in a European perspective, extreme right is behind a great deal of political power. I think it's right to hold a debate in the future whether we have had enough focus on those environments, and whether we need to prioritise it more strongly in the future. I look forward to openness on PST's priorities and a political debate on priorities. Finally, the terrorist attack was a political attack on the government, on the AUF, on values such as disability, democracy and a multicultural society. How do we ensure that the value base is best preserved? The terrorist attack was also an attack on man, and man is best helped by man: family, friends, volunteers and professionals. How do we further develop a society in which cohesion between us is strong, where trust is high, the will to show solidarity is strong and public provision works well? The answer to those challenges may be our most important preparedness as a society for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e748	Thank you to Minister of Justice Storberget and to Minister of Defence Faremo for a thorough presentation, which brought forward some of the complex choices of our society and our response units to the 22nd of July. There was one man alone standing behind the tragedy that struck many, but that struck us all. We must never forget that he is responsible. Whatever weaknesses we find, it is he, and he alone, who is responsible. He was alone. But many contributed. Here in Oslo, there were many individuals who contributed before the ambulance service was there, many who helped save lives. In the vicinity of the Utøya, there were people who put their own lives at risk to help those who were hit by the terrible terrorist attack. It shows that all of us, as citizens, also have a part of the responsibility for social protection. When the distress is greatest, we must all contribute. Even in the centre of Oslo, the emergency situation cannot be there until the fellow human being is there and can provide basic first aid. July 22 has taught us a lot, and it will teach us even more. One thing it's taught us is that it's impossible to say where terror strikes. Who had thought it was in Hole Municipality in Buskerud that the most cruel terrorist attack, the greatest attack on our country after World War II, was to come? It also makes the situation future and the preparation of a contingency plan for the whole country the big challenge — how to have a police force, a defense, a health service, a civil society, which has a preparedness that can deal with a lot of different events. Now that we're working on a new long-term defence plan, it's important that we be able to see the different resources of society in the context, and see how, across the police, health and defence, we can strengthen society's overall preparedness, and that we can get preparedness planning for our entire country. In the days after July 22nd, we were together. It was representatives from all the political parties that were assembled when we launched the July 22 Commission – it was a united political Norway. This statement and the debates we have had since 22 July have shown how complex it is – we don't have all the answers, we don't have all the information. The July 22 Commission will try to give us the most possible answers, so that we, as a magnificence, and the government, can make the most informed choices. I hope that in the spirit of July 22, even when we're going to make those choices, we'll be able to discuss calmly what's best for our country, how we can carry on our values in the best possible way. And then finally, it'll be our job to balance the different aspects of each other. We'll never be able to secure a society against all the risks. How much surveillance are we going to allow, how many streets are we going to close, how much security and control are we going to have around authorities? There are fundamental values to play if we do not take a thorough and good debate on how to ensure a good preparedness, while at the same time taking care of the privacy and openness of our society. The events of July 22 were a great tragedy. It is one person and one person alone who is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e773	I would also like to thank the Christian People's Party for two important presentations. I would like to say, perhaps, that the conclusion is that the presentations are primarily factual statements, more than statements that provide assessments of the changes that should be made. I have noted perhaps one area where there is more agreement in the two statements on where changes should be made, and there is a possible cooperation with police-defence to a greater extent than today. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice's introduction. This is going to be a question of willingness to change and the will to learn. If we have that as a headline, we can also go on as a society after what happened on July 22nd. We've reduced a commission. It has been fully approved by the Christian People's Party. But at the same time, it must not be that the Commission becomes a sort of excuse for not making changes to what obviously needs to be corrected in our preparedness. I have not realized that this is the government's position, but I would like to stress it from this pulpit as well. For us, it's important that the Commission becomes a truth commission. Facts must appear on the table – not to designate scapegoats or to blame individuals primarily, but to identify system failures that need to be improved. These include instructions, procedures, cooperation relations, lines of communication, distribution of responsibilities, materials and equipment with which the various departments are set up. Only by fully mapping this can we adopt the necessary improvements. I would therefore also like to present a small challenge to the Minister of Justice, who will have the floor again: when the government has said no to the Commission's desire that individuals should be able to give explanations under silence, how will the government ensure that what is to be on the table comes on the table, and that no one – even in the context of previous situations – feels that they cannot do so, in fear of subsequent represals? Firstly, as the Minister of Justice was about, it is the overall preparedness that must be the goal of improvement, and, as I said, including system failure, as we have now focused on. Secondly, there is ongoing work to improve what we see fail. Here I would like to hear more from the Minister of Justice about what he and the government think it is essential to correct. I think it might have been less than I thought before we got the statement. So I noticed that internal evaluations will be presented in the New Year, in February. The question to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence is: How will the government handle these internal evaluations? Is it intended to include them as part of the work of the 22nd July Commission and to be submitted afterwards, or will they be published when they are available? So to our own role. We live in a time when difficult things often have to be simplified. Not least events that are shaking us are making rapid demands on explanations, responsibilities and guilt and the need for prompt action. There I would say that it is also our responsibility in common – position and opposition – that we are not oversimplifying and thus can arrive at completely hasty conclusions. But a critical and factual opposition is also necessary in order for us to have more democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e792	I would also like to thank the Councils for coming here and having this presentation in the country's parliament. That's where it belongs to take these debates. I think it's important that we don't close any debates, that we try to keep them as open as we can, all the time. We have created a community in this country that aims to secure life. That's our first problem. As I've said before from this pulpit – we couldn't do that that day. I'm not concerned that we should find scapegoats in the system, but to admit that our system actually failed that day. Therefore, it is important not to have closed processes to this effect. That's why it's important to talk about what went wrong, without trying to find a person who has assessed errors, when we all know that it was our systems that didn't work. Then we have to dare to take the difficult debates. Then we must also dare to take them over time. I agree with the Minister of Justice's comment that it is important not to draw conclusions too early on the steps we know to be taken, because we cannot say that everything was perfect that day. There were a lot of people who did a lot more than what could be expected of them, but there was something that we could not have done. We didn't get any more lives. What worked well was what we saw from our civil society that day, or, what worked very well in our health system -- so good that the Minister of Health is not here under today's orientation. We saw policemen who set up a lot more than what was required. We saw doctors who were on their way to the hospital before they were called in. We saw hundreds, yes, perhaps thousands of donors in Oslo who were ready to contribute. We saw all the people who did maybe the bravest thing, starting to calm down, but still we saw that our systems failed. I would like to accept the thanks that both state councils expressed to the many who contributed, but it is important that we can look openly at what did not work. The Minister of Justice raised a number of points that I think are very interesting, how we are going to combat violent extremism, which I think will be an important part of our security struggle in the future. But I think it's important to stress that it means all kinds of violent extremism. I fear that we have had too much focus on Islamic extremism, and that we forget about the extremism that often arises on other political groups. I think the Minister of Justice has to be sure that this focus will be completely different in the future. It must be fought for openness in society. Police methods must always be discussed. I didn't think I was going to take the big personal protection debate today, but I'm very concerned about the great fascination of mass collection scanning – mass gathering of information that you think will create security – when we see that the principle of mass information collection has failed time after time. It was also mentioned that the names of lists were used through mass collection systems, but that they could not be used. I'm much more concerned with having a surveillance police force with skilled professionals who know people, who know environments, and who travel where they're going, than to think that big databases are going to guarantee our freedom and security. Openness makes us vulnerable, but closeness doesn't necessarily make us safe. When I first attended a major international conference in Switzerland, when I was a 14-year-old, the only thing I remember from the trip, which made a real impression that the airport policemen were carrying machine guns. I've never felt so insecure. Transparency can also provide security when we jointly take responsibility for our security. The Prime Minister said in those days that we should fight for more transparency, more democracy and not naivety. We all agreed then, and we in the Left must at least ensure that these words are remembered further in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e809	First of all, I would like to repeat my thanks for being able to explain. Having heard the feedback, I have to say that I am even more convinced of how right it is, first of all, that we are getting a broad debate on the issues that have been raised in the Stortinget today. The recordings that have been made, in my opinion, are good enough for us all to be able to make the difficult choices that lie, among other things. in the seven challenges I had in the presentation. In this way, I think today is a good estimate also in order to make safety even more optimal. I've learned over the years I've been in the Ministry of Justice, that this kind of work is never done. Such an event that we were exposed to on 22 July updates and points to the weaknesses that can be seen in very extreme situations – through both of them. It would just be missing if you didn't have the opportunity in the political space that the Storting is, to take proper and good decisions about this. I also fully agree with the representative, Skei Grande, that a society that is completely shut down and that is surrounded by the vast majority of police methods, whether armed or other types of surveillance, can often become a false security, and that there is, in fact, a great deal of security in transparency as such, and that there are not necessarily contradictions between these sizes. But in some areas, we are totally dependent on finding more useful tools. If we are required to enter information about persons acting in Poland for a small amount, and if we are going to be able to investigate in the wake of such a serious incident, it is also useful to have the ability to register, the ability to store data within a certain space, such as in particular. the data storage Directive permits. It is a political debate that we had in ours, which I think will only escalate, and which will show that there is a need for us to be able to draw a decent and useful limit to that type of instrument. Someone has been asking about the question of information. I'm excited that we're going to have the most information out. That is why we have now published the supporting material for my presentation. It is a material that involves everything from a timely explanation to a timely explanation, but which is also corrections to the work we have done in preparing the statement. We see that this is useful in the political debate, but I also think it is very useful to those who are most affected by the tragedy after July 22. I am therefore of the opinion that much of the material that the police now possess, and that goes on time and decision, is not necessarily particularly relevant to holding back any longer in terms of investigation or for other reasons. So it's the State Attorney and the Public Prosecutor's Office that decide the question of what's under investigation. I will not go into it, but I will promise that I will continue to contribute to the contact with the relatives and the survivors, so that they get the information it is possible to provide, as soon as possible. With regard to the issue of police internal evaluations, which is quite common after such dramatic events, the police have assured that the evaluation reports will be made available to the Commission. I have chosen not to interfere with the evaluation work that the police are currently doing, but I am going to help ensure that we get the greatest possible publicity elsewhere – that is, beyond that to the Commission – so that it can also help shed light on the political debates that will come. It's what the representative Sandberg was about; there'll be more debates before the Commission comes up with its position, and it'll be important from our side to also have the opportunity to pull bills on that material. So to the representative Syversen, who was in the middle of the question of action. The seven areas now mentioned in the statement also provide a clear picture of action. I mention only briefly: the emergency network deployment adopted before 22 July, the helicopter operations, whether it be rescue helicopters or Bell or police helicopters, the issue of methodology, where there are alerts, and not least the question of appropriations for the departments concerned. – But so far I thank Stortinget for a very nice round about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e826	I would also like to use the opportunity to repeat a thank-you to be allowed to explain the defence's assistance on 22 July and the following days. Not surprisingly – and I have to say I am happy about it – the cooperation between the Defence and the police has had a lot of attention today. Norway is a small country with limited resources for preparedness and crisis management. The total resources therefore need to be used in the most efficient way possible for society as a whole. We have a long tradition of cooperation between the military and civil sectors, and such cooperation is ongoing every day. However, we need to consider how we can contribute to further improvements. The basic law and the aid directive constitute the legal framework for defence assistance to the police. The police define the need for assistance on a case-by-case basis. However, the defence shall be proactive in order to carry out the necessary preparations in order to be as clear as possible in the event of a request for assistance. Initially, all the available resources of the Defence may assist civil authorities where necessary. However, some capacities are more relevant and tangible for assistance in critical situations. The handling of terrorist acts on 22 July has put a special search light on some of these. Therefore, measures have already been taken to follow up some of the experience we have gained. It is, as mentioned above, so that military helicopter readiness is already strengthened, and our ability to assist in object protection by the use of security forces is further assessed, and, as many have been involved, the assistance instruction needs a review. We're going through this, both procedures and procedures, not least in terms of how we can further simplify the interaction. I am also open to notions of how the defence can quickly and effectively assist the police with their competence and resources in an even more effective way than today, and especially in terms of the preparedness for terrorism. Let me again underline that we have to be able to handle the unexpected. It is therefore important to further develop robust and flexible preparedness and crisis management mechanisms, where all societal resources can interact. It also needs to be practised regularly. Only in this way can we be as prepared as possible to deal with the breadth of the security challenges that the future can bring. I would also like to refer to what the Minister of Justice said about openness. We have to do everything we can to help light up the facts. We contribute there with information to the police, who are now reviewing and evaluating their efforts, and we are also contributing to the work of the July 22 Commission. Openness, as far as possible, must be our common goal. With this I would once again just like to thank you for the points of view that have come. I look forward to important debates on how to ensure the best possible use of the total resources in situations that require it. July 22 required it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e843	This concludes the debate after the presentations. In this type of case it is right to conclude immediately at the end of the case with any further processing. That is why voting is now being called. I have reason to believe that there is a relatively broad consensus on the procedure the President intends to propose, namely that the statements by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence on the attack on 22 July 2011 are further dealt with under Rule 34a(c). – i.e. we're sending it to the committee for further consideration. I believe that there is agreement, given that we will forward it later on in the course of a referral, and then with which committee to deal with the matter. The proposal is therefore that we deal with the matter in accordance with Article 34a(c) of the Rules of Procedure, which sends it to the Committee for further consideration. Can the Storting approve it, and then we'll get back to it under a record? – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e863	It is true that the elected rapporteur on this matter has been called an important task. When the committee submits a unanimous opinion, I shall only add a few comments to it in the absence of the rapporteur. This is about an additional 100 million. kr as decided by the Stortinget shall be allocated to the operation in Libya, i.e. once again a situation in which Norwegian forces have been involved in a foreign operation. All the conditions for this operation and participation were in place through the UN Security Council Resolution 1973 — once again an action in which NATO played a very central role. A whole world has been seen and shaken by the images that have shown Gaddafi's assault on its own people. This action has contributed to the fact that it is now up to the people themselves to facilitate a development that can create peace, tranquillity, democracy and development in Libya. The Committee stresses, of course, that when participating in this type of very sharp and demanding task, all the training, training, material and equipment prerequisites must be in place. The Committee has also taken the view that when this type of activity is carried out outside the annual planned activities of the Defence Agency, this shall also be financed outside the adopted annual defence budget, as it will be in this case. Let me just conclude by saying that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee visited the United States last week. There was a clear feedback on the Norwegian effort – it gets the most achievable character that can be given. The strongest and best adjectives are used for the Norwegian contribution, both on management, quality and outreach. Best in Class and Gold Star are adjectives used in the Norwegian effort. On cross-checks whether this is a review given to all of the general courtesy, this was rejected on the particular issue. I think it's a unanimous committee that has reason to say that this is a feedback and a character that we all have reason to be very proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e881	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 389]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e897	It is hoped that the Chamber will be emptied when we deal with something as important as the Ombudsman of the Storting for the right of access to administrative documents. But the background to this matter is, as we heard from the estimates of the proposers, something as rare as a proposal from all the parties of the Storting. So that's what it's worth to mark. The background is that the civil ombudsman in several rounds has previously pointed to a slightly specific provision in the second paragraph of Section 7 of the Ombudsman Act, which in theory has at least limited the transparency of some documents by the civil ombudsman. The Committee considers that the right of access to the Civil Ombudsman is completely fundamental and unrestricted and that it is unnatural to maintain a restriction on the Ombudsman’s right of access as laid down in the second paragraph of Section 7. For this reason, a unanimous committee has supported the proposal of the representative of all parties to abolish this restriction of transparency. In the Committee's work on the suspension, another issue arose, which concerned information subject to confidentiality under the Safety Act and the Protection Instructions, which is not specifically specified in this Act. That is why the Committee, on its own initiative, has supplemented the proposal of the proposers with a clarification of the taushet provision. Although the Committee considers that the existing provision would have covered it in the first place, it is clear that all doubts have been settled here. Some other minor changes have also been proposed. There are essentially only formalities – where references in the law have not been amended in line with changes in other laws, as well as the law on the Ombudsman of the Storting for administration has not had a short form in the past. It is common in Norwegian law practice to give laws short forms. The proposal now envisages that we should not say the law on the Ombudsman of the Storting for the administration, but can say ‘civil ombudsman’s law’. It is a sort of simplification and coordination with the rest of the law. In practice, this proposal may not be of great importance, but it could facilitate the Ombudsman's work on transparency, because on some occasions it has emerged a situation in which the administration has been restrained from providing information to the Civil Ombudsman, including: in the context of the second paragraph of Section 7. That doubt and uncertainty have now been removed, and it is entirely in line with the intention of the Stortinge in terms of the Ombudsman’s right of access: it must be almost absolute. Although not everyone has an overview of it, there is a big difference between making documents public and making them available to the civil ombudsman. The fact that the Civil Ombudsman is given access to documents necessary for his work does not mean that complaints or that others are given access to these documents. It's also clearly relative to the taushets that apply. So this is a good day for the civil ombudsman, who gets through for references that he's made several times in the past, at what will be a unanimous greatness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e914	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 389]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e930	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the main entries of each batch and up to four lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e939	We are now examining proposals from Right Trond Helleland, Michael Tetzschner and others. to ensure growth-enhancing labour immigration. Everything in its title signals to the proposers that labour immigration is positive for Norwegian society. Foreign workers contribute to economic growth. Economic growth contributes to ensuring well-being. That view is shared by an overall committee. Important tasks for the government, such as full child care coverage and historical road and rail investment, had not been possible without access to foreign labour. The hotel and restaurant industries and agriculture are other industries that depend entirely on this labour force. Our ability to innovation is another key. An overall committee agrees that good administrative procedures and effective procedures are important in order not to create unnecessary obstacles to the necessary external recruitment. But there's an end to unity. The Committee has divided itself into a majority and a minority in terms of the concrete means of achieving what everyone wants. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, propose that the eight proposals to be put to the vote be annexed to the Minutes. The reason is that the intention of the proposals has already been respected in current practice or in issues that the government already has to assess. The minority, consisting of the Right, of course, and the Christian People's Party, want the proposals to be voted on and adopted here and now. The minority itself will present the proposals and justify them. I'll explain the majority's view. Reading this proposal for a representative is like reading a summary of the summary of St.melding. No 18 for 2007-2008 on labour immigration. This is, in fact, a rematch on proposals that were voted down just three years ago. In the meantime, we have received a new foreign law and regulation, which takes care of a lot of this. I will take the suggestions in order. prior approval of enterprises, so that an employee can work while applying for work and staying: a simpler system is already in place. Professionals, especially qualified and specialists can start working while the application is being processed, without the company requiring additional approval. The right-hand proposal provides an additional round of applications for each enterprise. If it's the case that we still have problems, maybe it's more like the definition of who's skilled. The majority have therefore asked the government to look at practice in relation to the intention of the foreign regulation. The requirements for competence should be defined to a greater extent by the employer: Today, the UDI will only assess whether this competence is relevant, not if it is necessary, as it was before. The assessment that remains is to assure us against attempts at social dumping. simplifying the legislation for the renewal of a work permit: it is simplified for EEA citizens. For third-country nationals, there is more control, once again, to ensure us against social dumping and other circumvention of legislation. simplification of the rules on family reunification from third countries: in the opinion of the majority, rapid processing is more effective than new regulatory changes. Some improvements have already been achieved, but the majority are not satisfied and have asked the government to work more on the procedures in such cases. the right to language training for those who are unemployed from the EEA: it is fine that the Right and the Christian People's Party will now reintroduce a system they themselves removed in 2004, but the government already has the case, on behalf of the Stortinget. In the meantime, languages can be included in individual labour market measures. remove the ceiling of 5000 specialists: the roof is set with a good margin and with good reason. The alternative is more bureaucracy, not less, because each applicant otherwise had to be assessed in relation to the EEA preferential law. establish the EU Blue Card scheme: this scheme is about the recruitment of highly qualified, within some scope of EEA control, demand and priority. It's our system today. It's just not called Blue Card. simpler personal identification number system: most people receive a person number in a few days. Takes it longer, it's often because of uncertain identity. The majority do not want to reduce safety in this area. Finally, the Committee felt that there was no need for consultation in this matter. There was an overall committee standing behind, precisely because this is a matter that was at a thorough hearing just a few years ago, which further emphasizes that this is a rematch on things that were dealt with in this room just a little over three years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e997	The President records that the Council of State has now come to the Chamber. The president just wants to remind you that state councils have to be present when you start dealing with cases in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1000	The rapporteur explained in a good manner why the majority of the Committee would like the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes. Rematches may have something in common if the assumptions have changed, and if the chance of winning is greater than the last. There are certainly none of the assumptions that are present in this case, and then it's okay that someone is given the opportunity to make a political mark. We're not going to get rid of that. I think it is right that parties are allowed to do so, that they should do so, and that they should be treated with respect. To the matter: As I said, the rapporteur presented the majority view, but there are a few points I want to address. One relates to a shortage of labour with special skills and whether that deficiency is large or not. It seems – when you see that allowances are not filled and that there is no excruciating need in companies for special skills – that the need is not great. It is clear that some companies need a very special competence, and are able to obtain that competence without the very big problems. As the rapporteur also pointed out, there have been some changes in legislation and legislation that make it easier for companies to obtain the skills they need. The proposal mentions «sustainable labour migration», and I ask myself the question «sustainable» for whom? A Danish survey, which was carried out a few years ago, showed that if a migrant worker were to be «sustainable», he had to come to the country at the age of 30, have completed his education, without having family and children in kindergarten and school, earn about 500,000 kroner a year and move home at the age of 62. In that case, this migrant could actually be «sustainable». Whether this is the case in Norway, where migrant workers often have the family with them — bringing with them young people who are going to school and kindergarten — while the proposers demand that Norwegian training be a right, I wonder how ‘sustainable’ this immigration really is, and for whom. When an immigrant comes to Norway and applies for a job in Norway, it should be his responsibility to learn the language in Norway or, where appropriate, in the country to which he comes. If there is a company that headshunter and gets specialists in it, it must also be the company's responsibility that these learn the language in the country they come to. So the right is concerned that it is difficult to get labour to Norway because of wages, or, to put it correctly, what is left of wages after the tax has been paid. I can partly agree with what the Right says about taxes, but then not just for labour immigrants, but for the whole country's population. We have too high a tax level on wages – there is no doubt about it. But if we're going to go out and pick out individual groups that are going to get lower taxes because they're coming to Norway to work, it's going to be a way for me to discriminate against Norwegian workers. Discrimination, as you know, is not a good idea, so the Progress Party does not see that it is an advantage to have. If we are to do something about the tax, the level of taxation for all employees should be reduced so that it becomes fair. It is a little surprising that the Right will be a champion of discrimination against Norwegian workers. Besides that, there is not much to add to the matter. There's been a lot of work done in the area. Some of the adjustments that have been made will go on and on. I hope that we will have an immigration of labour that meets the needs of Norway for labour, and then we will have hope that we will have a good and «sustainable» working life, including in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1019	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1022	The Progress Party is in favour of a majority opinion, in which we ask the government to look at the practice of the legislation on who can be regarded as a skilled person and whether that practice is consistent with the intention of the legislation. However, the Progress Party does not follow the rest of the majority when we say that any adjustments ‘must take place within the framework set up to prevent social dumping’. It is strange, because in the discussion of the Employment Communication, the Progress Party was involved in a common civil proposal, calling on the government ‘to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate in order to ensure a good follow-up to the Action Plan against Social Dumping’. What does that mean? Has the Progress Party changed its position? In contrast to three years ago, does the Progress Party believe that social dumping in the case of foreign workers is quite right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1029	No, no, no. The Progress Party does not believe that it is entirely right for some workers to be exposed to unacceptable pay and working conditions. What we are more concerned about is the concept of social dumping. As I said, unacceptable pay and working conditions should not occur, they should be regulated via tariffs. ‘Social dumping’ is not a good concept, and we do not want to participate in such a concept. If, on the other hand, it had been ‘socialistic dumping’, we could have been more willing to participate in it, but then in completely different contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1036	I took note of the reference from the representative Ørsal Johansen to Danish labour market surveys, which allegedly had to be that in order for an immigrant to be «sustainable» socio-economic, he had to complete his education, work without family – and so he had to go home when he turned 62. Since I have respect for both the representative Ørsal Johansen and Stortinget, who are presented as a fact, I would like to ask for a detailed source for this survey. It is contrary to everything else at least I have acquired on this subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1043	The Danish version of Norges Bank, the Danish Riksbank, did such an investigation for – I think it was – four or five years ago and came up with these results. That's who I'm referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1048	I'm not surprised by a policy of the Progress Party that says that Norwegians should be allowed to travel wherever they want in the world, and live wherever they want, let's say in Spain, where the Progress Party has its own team of progress party members, or in Thailand or in other parts of the world, and work or enjoy its otium as a fully educated and completed Norwegian labour force. However, the problem arises when this logic is also taken into account in Norway. I hear Morten Ørsal Johansen say that he is allegedly not against wage dumping, but is against the use of the term ‘social dumping’. Then I ask the question to Morten Ørsal Johansen: Is it such that at any time during the examination of this proposal by the Right – which is quite free of social dumping concerns in its proposal, it should be said, committed to opening up labour immigration, but not so much concerned with social dumping – did any measures to combat social dumping, albeit by a different name?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1056	In connection with this Document 8, we have not proposed anything. We've gone into the majority comments that are there. As I explained in the first line, we are also concerned that no one should have unacceptable pay and working conditions. It should be covered by tariffs, and those working in Norway should work under collective agreements applicable to Norway, in any case. We see no great need to promote our own proposals on it, when it is covered by the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1063	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1066	I thank you for the opportunity to discuss this important topic. Now it may not be the big debate today – in the light of what we have heard earlier today. I have to start by stressing, or pointing out, that it is a bit fun to see the Workers' Party and SV take a line on the Advance Party in a matter where they are fully agreed. There is a touching consensus between the Progress Party, SV and the Labour Party in one of the most important issues facing Norway, namely access to skilled labour and access to labour, which can help keep Norwegian districts moving. I was at Voss last week with the committee leader Holmås. We were sitting in a panel debate where he celebrated several of the proposals that the Right had when it came to labour immigration. We sat in a panel with Minister Navarsete, with the rapporteur, from the Labour Party, in Hasvik, who had a screaming shortage of labour, and who had one wish: simpler rules, so that it was possible to pick up competent Russian labour force across the border. The last in the panel was the rapporteur in Austevoll, Helge André Njåstad of the Progress Party, who was almost Panegyrian in his tribute to being able to receive the greatest possible labour immigrants, who were absolutely necessary for the fishing industry in Austevoll, and who said: 'We are doing everything we can to facilitate these immigrants' work. We're doing everything we can to get a woman or a man who doesn't have a job. We're doing everything we can to facilitate school provision, etc. This illustrates one thing. Earlier in the day, we were presented with a statistics that showed that apparently Norwegian district policy went so far, because there was no major decline in the population of Norwegian districts at the moment. It was the Head of Mission of the Ministry of Local Affairs, Hallgeir Aalbu, who produced these statistics, and who had taken care of the same statistics without migrant workers. Then the figures were dramatic, then there was a sharp decline in the population of the districts that are just living by processing our raw materials. But because of immigration, we have a completely different situation. When we want to make this easier, it's called a rematch. Well, I see the answer from the department. I actually think many of the answers are also good. But there is no doubt that we, as big-time representatives – at least I do – are very often getting enquiries about people who want to take in competent labour, and who are struggling with it because bureaucracy is difficult, the demands on whom to take in are strict, etc. So we clearly see the need for this. The Committee has been in Sweden and the Committee has been in Denmark. Both countries have opened up labour immigration from third countries, i.e. non-EEA countries. Norway now has an immigration policy where you either have to be persecuted — i.e. an asylum seeker — or you need to be an EEA citizen in order to get in. It's a specialty quota, that's right, but the requirements for it – I've been in several cases, and it's also been the case rapporteur, Lise Christoffersen, among others. in Drammen – shows that there is a bureaucracy without equal. It is difficult to obtain approval. Would it not have been better if serious Norwegian companies could themselves approve and offer jobs to people they thought were necessary to acquire skills? With regard to the cost calculations of the Progress Party and reference to the Danish Riksbank, I would like to read that study. For if one is to speak on behalf of the PP in Austevoll, Austevoll would have stopped without labour immigration, and if one is to speak on behalf of the rapporteur in Hasvik, there is a need for increased labour immigration from outside the EEA. So I ask that our proposals be voted on. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is in support of this. I think we're going into a time when the concept of circular migration will become much more important in the political debate: you're growing up in one country, you're studying in another country, you're getting a job in a third country, and you might be moving back to the first country when you're a retired person. This is the world we now live in – a global world where there will be a struggle for competence. We record that in the United States and Canada has 50 pst. by the higher education of immigrants. In Europe, 5 pst. by the higher education of immigrants. There is a situation in Europe, and Norway in particular, will lose weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1083	The President assumes that the representative of Greece has put forward the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1086	That's what I was trying to do. That might be a little bit of a wrong way to say it, but it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1091	That was comforting. The representative of Trond Helleland has then taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1098	In the comments on the case, the Right, together with the Christian People's Party, calls for tax incentives to increase the immigration of skilled labour. A similar proposal was evaluated and rejected by the so-called Skauge Committee in 2003, chaired by a former Minister of Finance from the Right. Has Right Turned Here? Does the Right really mean that we should introduce a regulation where foreigners systematically pay less taxes than the Nordics with the same income? And since the Right wants increased labour migration, what does the representative of Greece think such a rule will mean for the rest of the population to rise up on labour immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1103	There is one of many measures that I am asking for to be assessed. It is related to the need for skilled labour, and this is related to the fact that we have a high level of costs in Norway. We're talking about the top specialists. I think it's more important than tax incentives to get on this with prior approval of companies that can bring in immigrants, and that one focuses on speeding up the bureaucratic system, among other things. by obtaining a personal identification number. We believe that this is one of several proposals that should be considered, and I am disappointed that the Labour Party in this case is more concerned with protecting the LO than giving Norwegian companies access to competent labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1108	I think it's a little too cheap of Greece to say that this is about protecting the LO. But I'll come back to that in my main post. I really just want to make a statement, and then Trond Helleland will have to comment on it if he wants to. I think it is very good that the Right has promoted this proposal. I think it's good that the Right wants to take this debate, but I see it as a line break from the Right. From meeting the immigration of labour that came in connection with the EEA enlargement, with the attitude that okay, these people may well be allowed to come here, but they should at least be integrated into Norwegian society and rather go back when they are finished and there is no need for them, I perceive that this is a signal from the Right that, no, you know what, we have to meet people like they do in Canada, in the United States and a lot of other places. So instead of saying, "How fast are you going to go home to the country you came from?" they say, "How quickly do you want to become Norwegian and participate in the Norwegian labour market?" Then you're going to be allowed to travel back and forth between the different countries, because it's possible to have more identities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1115	I thought Heikki Holmås had a good line. He not only touched – he was in on an important point. I don't want to say it's a line break, but it's a recognition that we are now living in another worldview where migration will be global, where it will go between countries. I finished my post by talking about what I call circular migration, where you can actually grow up in one country, study in another, work in a third, and then go back. We need a policy for this, and we believe that migrant workers who lose their jobs must, of course, be offered Norwegian training instead of being punished by being taken away from their daily allowances if they are studying Norwegian. So this is quite correctly observed. Norway still has a high labour shortage and will have it in the years to come. We need skilled immigrants, and we want to stimulate them. So that's right. I hope SV can join in when they get out of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1120	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1124	I am pleased that we can have this debate. There's a slightly different side to immigration debates than what we normally have, so I'm glad we can discuss a matter like this. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we must facilitate the necessary labour immigration and make the country attractive to specialists and highly educated workers. We are also concerned that we should have a serious immigration debate, where we are talking about the challenges that exist, but also about the positive effects of immigration. It has advised a striking perception of how profitable immigration is. In the wake of the Brochmann Committee's report, it was claimed that non-Western immigration is a purely net loss. In silence, the Central Statistical Office has prepared a migration account. You might like it, or not like it, but it shows that even for those immigrant groups that are believed to be overrepresented in terms of being recipients of different welfare assets – groups from Somalia, Iraq and Afghans – it is actually such that income from work and capital is a higher part than welfare schemes. At least there is little doubt that highly educated labour has a high demand on the international labour market, and there is no doubt that the countries that are able to attract the best minds serve it. They become the winners of ever tougher international competition. The labour market is likely to be characterised by the fact that in the years ahead workers and service providers will migrate more, as the representative of Greece has experienced, but also by increased competition for labour between countries. It is a major political challenge in the years to come to attract skilled labour. It requires a comprehensive policy that is not unnecessarily bureaucratic. The proposers write: ‘Knowledge and skills, together with diversity in the workforce, are essential for innovation and industrial development in an increasingly competitive and international labour and business life’.» The Christian People's Party agrees. If Norway is to take a step from being a commodity exporter to becoming a knowledge nation, it should be such that our industry attracts new graduates from the best universities in the world. Our job as politicians is to make sure that the barriers are minimised for these workers, and that's why the Christian People's Party supports the Right's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1149	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1152	The Christian People's Party has chosen to follow the Right in this matter. The proposals from the Right show, both in the previous round and now, that our so-called compressed pay structure is a problem in recruiting highly skilled labour in Norway, and that this issue needs to be taken seriously if Norway is to maintain and further develop the welfare society of Norway to become a knowledge nation in the future. My question to the representative of the Christian People's Party is: Do Christian People's Party share the right starting point that the answer to the challenges of the future is that we need to make greater differences between people? Or, in another way, does the Christian People's Party believe that it is an advantage or a disadvantage that we live in a country with less social differences than in very many other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1159	The Christian People's Party is also very busy balancing differences between people. It has been the line and policy of the Christian People's Party constantly. What is the starting point of this case, and which I was also a little bit into my post, is that the leap from being a commodity nation to becoming a knowledge nation depends on us being able to attract the best minds. We're going to be dependent on that in the future, and we're going to have to make it happen. That is why many of these proposals are very good proposals. It points to a comprehensive policy on this issue. When it comes to balancing differences, I think the Workers' Party knows that the Christian People's Party is involved in the struggle to balance the differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1168	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1171	As I said to Trond Helleland, I am very pleased with this proposal. I believe that from the positioning parties, i.e. the government parties, we have treated it in a very proper way, met some of the proposals and signaled that we are willing to go further. I think it's important to stress that this marks a line break. Trond Helleland calls it a "recognition" – it's totally okay for me – a recognition that the world has changed. But really, the world hasn't changed, but the Right Policy has changed. I think that is good, because it marks a change in the climate in the immigration debate. From my point of view, there is at least a hope that it will mark a change in the climate in the immigration debate and that it will also mean something, given that it is not that one can see all aspects of immigration policy and integration policy in a completely separate way. On the contrary, there are some overlapping effects that play a role for each other. Take it simple: at the moment you recognize that people can migrate back and forth between a country and other countries, there are immediately two implications. The residence permit, which we have introduced as a permanent residence permit, will be granted to you in Norway after three years, while for example: in Canada, it will be immediately received at the moment you receive a residence permit. Then you admit... let me go back in the reasoning: if you admit that people are moving on, you can't have a rigid residence permit policy that says that one must have stayed for three years and so long in Norway, otherwise a residence permit is lost and has to start again. If you're interested in bringing in immigrants, it might mean that you need to have more flexible rules at a lower threshold. The same applies to double citizenship. It was only the SV that last time we dealt with this, went in for double citizenship in Norway. We have to admit that people can process multiple identities. Believe me, as a displaced mountain of Oslo, I can understand something about this, the meaning of Oslo and have Oslo in all my heart, but I also have Bergen in all my heart. I understand that it is possible to have two identities. When you also know that citizenship means a lot to the rights of the country you live in, it has something to say – maybe we have to look at the citizenship rules again. We're going to have a process of citizenship. It's taken up as part of the Committee on Integration's position, and we need to have a discussion about citizenship as well. In Canada and 90 other countries in the world, it is possible to have dual citizenship. You have that in all the Western immigration countries of importance, and have experience in this. The European Commission itself has said that citizenship is important for the establishment of loyalty to a country. It's terribly important to avoid extremism, along with other forms of civil rights. Why is this important when it comes to the question of circular migration? The perspective that I think Right hasn't taken over yet is the need to think about social dumping and exploitation in all these circumstances. If you have a work permit to be renewed every year, it is clear that the employer is in a very strong situation every year when the work permit is to be renewed, if that is the way you risk having to go back to the country you have migrated from, if you do not – let's say – add the employer. There is something that needs to be discussed. It also has to take over the right, because otherwise we can't figure out a common good solution to this. In Sweden, it has been solved by two years plus two years. In Canada, it has been solved by a permanent residence permit from day one. How are we going to solve this in Norway? At least we have to have a discussion. In another area, family reunification, there are also proposals from the Right. There has been a tremendous pressure that it is terribly important to be strict in the field of family immigration. Three years ago, we had big discussions about this. We ended up landing on a policy that looked at early incomes, and that set the demand for early incomes quite high. There was a lot more bureaucracy around these rules at that time. On the majority side, we're fully aware of what we can do. This is not certain about the legislative side. This might be true of other areas. But it is important to ensure that this is treated jointly. Finally, a little bit about language, because I kind of think it's the finest place where there's been a change in the right. It was Erna Solberg who, against protests from other parties, abolished language training. Now the Right Right Right wants to attach it. I think that's good. But then you have to think that this is something we need to do just to ensure integration into the world of work and to look at how Norway can connect as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1191	Heikki Holmås describes the Right proposal as a line change, while the case rapporteur from the same block, Lise Christoffersen, describes it as a rematch. Is it a rematch, or is it a line break? I'm saying that's a new confession from our side. We will have a completely different pressure on this with labour immigration. We will have new challenges to tackle important jobs in Norwegian society. In a fishing company on Fröya with 430 employees, there are 400 non-residents and 30 Nordics. The councillor in the municipality has been smart and said that among the 400 employees, there are many who are overqualified to work in the fishing business with what they do there, and may be used in municipal activities. So the question to Heikki Holmås is: Does Holmås also perceive this proposal from the Right as a rematch? Or does he view it as a bit of exciting innovation, which he would like to be on if it hadn't been for him to be in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1198	I have to admit that I think it is easier to be involved in this precisely because we are in government and have the opportunity to ‘drag’ this through and take proper discussions around it. I mean, that's what we do. Trond Helleland has somehow come to a new recognition right now. I think that's great. But the job immigration message we made, I think Trond Helleland has given a little too little credit. When we created it, we were just looking at expanding the narrow specialist training criteria that were 500,000 kroner, to trade union workers. It's a pretty significant extension. If we agree that people should have proper wages when working in Norway, the Right must be involved in looking at it. There is a high level of labour immigration, for example: in fishing farms, fishing farms are at risk of hiring temporary workers from other EU countries into lice wages, and they end up getting people who never have the opportunity to integrate, because they will never be able to afford it. So I'm saying recognition -- very nice that it's a confession, and then we take over that confession and see that this we can build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1207	Since no more has asked for a line, the President should not ask the representatives to replace it. Both representatives were now in the wrong place. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1213	Let me begin by regretting that I came too late into the hall. Let me start by saying that I share the views of the proposers on the need for growth-enhancing labour migration. Labour immigration in the last few years has been positive for Norway. Immigrants contribute to meeting the demand for labour, contribute to the performance of important tasks and provide useful skills. The basis for today's labour immigration policy was laid in the Labour Migration Communication presented by the government in 2008. The aim of the policy is to facilitate the recruitment of qualified workers from abroad by enterprises and businesses in a simple and efficient way, when they need it. At the same time, good conditions in the labour market must be ensured for each worker. Therefore, the fight against social dumping is an important part of the government's labour immigration policy. Policies must also be designed in such a way as to contribute to the sustainable development of the welfare society. Future demand for labour shall mainly be met by mobilising domestic labour resources. Labour immigration shall complement, not replace, domestic labour. I see it as the right behind the main lines of today's labour immigration policy. Then, of course, we can discuss whether individual schemes are good enough. However, we have recently had a broad review of labour immigration policy, and we have recently introduced new arrangements, many in line with what the Right now proposes. I therefore think that we should let the arrangements work a little longer before we take a new grip. At the same time, I would ask the OECD to assess Norway's labour immigration policy, as part of their review of this policy, in those countries that want to participate. When discussing labour immigration policy, it is often focused on legislation for citizens from non-EEA countries, but the discussion must be based on Norway joining a single European labour market. Most of the labour force comes from other European countries. Many of these immigrants are relatively well educated. The proposers propose that employers should decide more on the competence of the skilled immigrants from third countries. That is what we did in connection with new foreign legislation last year. The old technical provision was simplified, and the new specialist and early start-up schemes gave employers greater access to assessing the skills of immigrants themselves. The proposers also propose the introduction of a system of prior approval of enterprises. It's a long way from what we've done, but in the simplest way, because all companies that meet a few requirements, i.e. the submission of tax certificates and HMS self-declaration, can let the immigrant work while the authorities are processing the application, or they can hire who they want as long as the immigrant receives a salary of over 500,000 kroner. I think it is time to ask questions about the offer of language training to EEA immigrants. The government has received advice from two different public authorities on this issue. The Kaldheim Committee recommends free language training, while the majority of the Brochmann Committee does not. The various assessments show that a thorough assessment is needed before a conclusion is reached. Questions about Norwegian training for migrant workers will be addressed in the context of the Interoperability Storing Communication, which the Government intends to present to the Stortinget during 2012. Finally, let me stress that the most important thing now is to bring down the procedure time, so that we can achieve the goal of four weeks of trial time for all complete applications. I attach great importance to achieving this goal, now that electronic processing will soon be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1239	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1242	While there is a strong consensus that the need for labour migration is there, the scale is regulated by the expertise available in Norway at all times. It is such that part of those who train train for unemployment and some areas of competence disappear from the labour market. It is said that more than half of the enterprises and the competence in 20 years' time are not available today. Then you have to train in line with what business needs. It turns out that some of the education services we have today, which are popular, do not work for today or in the future. Is it the industry and society that will guide the provision of education, or is it the desire of young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1249	I think we agree that the business community and the demand for labour must be very crucial for what kind of education you have. But I also hope that we can manage to combine it with what young people want, and I actually don't think it needs to be any contrast over time between the two things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1254	The Council of State was so kind to comment on the proposals made by the proposers, inter alia. this about language training. In its letter, the Council of State has explained that the reason why this has not been addressed is partly that the Bondevik Government allegedly abolished a general language training scheme for EEA immigrants in 2004, which is supposed to be an issue that was recognised when it promoted St.meld. No 18 for 2007-2008. So for the time being, four years have been spent evaluating this, without any results coming from it. And one last argument for not doing anything about that is that these two selections in NOU 2011:7 and NOU 2011:14 also provide conflicting advice. Our proposal does not involve general training for EEA citizens, but precisely for those who are unemployed, and that proposal has not been commented on by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1259	It is absolutely right that this is a matter that the Bondevik government reversed, and it is right that we were aware of this case when we submitted the notice in 2008, and that we have assessed the issue since then. I stress that the two recommendations we have now received are contradictory, also show that there is a need to see whether this is the right way to correct the effort. I am very concerned about what Nav is doing now, that you relate language training to different types of courses, work training, etc. for those who are out of work and those who have lost their job by coming to Norway. They'll especially need this. I think we broadly agree on where we're going. The question is how it makes sense to set up Norwegian training.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1268	I do not think the Council of State in its letter of reply responds very well to what has to do with the Blue Card scheme. She just rejects it, because we can't introduce it. In Germany, they are now betting on Blue Card. They have recently reduced the amount limit to 380 000 per year, so that much more are covered by the scheme. The Minister does not see that it can be neat for a jobseeker that Norway is part of a European system, so that the jobseeker does not need to learn a peculiar Norwegian system, which can be logical enough for us, but which complicates the case for example. an Indian engineer who would expect to work in Scandinavia, or in Germany for that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1275	Nor has Denmark introduced this Blue Card scheme. So this is not a unified system within the EU area and the EEA area. I am concerned that the considerations behind the Blue Card scheme are also well under way in the new system that we have now established since 1 January 2010 and that I have been very clear that I think we should see how it works more over time. So it's e.g. Paradoxically, the duration of the ‘Blue Card’ procedure is longer than the period of time we propose. For me, it's not essential that we go into such a system. Now we've added, I mean, the cards for a system that I believe in, and that it's important that we now see how works before we make new changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1284	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1289	Labour immigration is important, and I think it is good that we have an opportunity to debate this important area. Norway needs competent people to fill all necessary posts in the country. However, it is equally important that labour immigration is regulated and put into a system. A regulated working life is a major part of the prerequisite for the development of Velferds-Norway. We have a great similarity in Norway between people and different groups. Many of the elements that have led to this situation have been fought by the trade union movement. Proposalers make it very difficult to come to Norway as work immigrants. In her letter to the Committee of State Councils, she refers to the record numbers for immigration at work, and that the feedback from employers does not indicate that there are large administrative barriers to countering labour immigration to the country. That doesn't mean that it can't be unlucky single things. Right of Greece commented in its reply that the Workers' Party would protect the LO. It is not a protection of the LO, but it is a protection of human beings and human dignity and a decent treatment of workers. Another worrying field that we have seen in Norway is issues that arise related to social dumping. Foreign workers, both inside and outside the EEA territory, are overrepresented in these tragic cases. These must be combated, and we must all be on guard against an improper working life. We saw some grotesque examples in the fishing industry last winter that neither this industry nor the country can be familiar with. For third-country nationals who are skilled or have special qualifications, access to work permits in Norway is also not particularly difficult. They may receive a three-year work permit for a particular type of work, not for a particular employer. This means that a flexible system has been put in place so that third-country nationals authorised by this category can change employers and, as such, are part of the flexible Norwegian labour market. Labour immigration is not the area where it is quite obvious that one needs to make rapid changes. This does not mean that we should not follow developments and make changes where necessary and when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1306	I think we can establish that labour immigration is an unconditional good. What is the accident today is that it is mixed with the discussion about another type of immigration, namely immigration into unemployment and a life as a client in the welfare state. When these two discussions are mixed together, you can easily go wrong. Let me remind you that historically, we have enjoyed labour immigration. Nidarosdom had not been raised without stone cutters from England. One point in this connection is also that it was a private savings bank that decided to rebuild Nidaros after the Stortinget had said no, but it is outside this debate. The point here is that we must have a conscious and comprehensive policy that ensures sustainable labour migration, and that is one of the major economic challenges of the years to come. This also has an impact on trade balance, for the purpose of labour immigration is that goods and services can be produced in Norway. Therefore, the option of labour immigration is that services – and in particular goods – are produced elsewhere and finally imported into Norway, thus maintaining our role as a commodity supplier paying for imported knowledge from the outside. We also need a policy that underpins access to knowledge and competences in society, along with diversity in the workforce, which can also contribute to innovation and industrial development in a more competitive and international labour and business life. It is from this point of view that we must then assess whether we have good enough instruments, and then from the Right we have promoted these concrete proposals for consideration. Then we hear that either that's all right, or then the government has found better ways to do it. However, I would urge the Council of State to go carefully through the Right proposal. It's not necessarily that everything we point to is going to be solved just after our input, but I'm calling for a more offensive policy to implement what we're looking for, that's sustainable labour immigration. I also notice that the department sees the world a little bit different from its offices than its business, because we are told that businesses often have to wait six months to prepare workers that meet the requirements that we otherwise agree to set. Finally, as an example of the department's not being too hasty, I would also like to welcome the further examination of the proposal for language training for those EEA citizens who have become unemployed while they are here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1322	Just briefly on the back of a fairly good debate, I think – a debate that we might actually have rigged in the opposite direction, because Trond Helleland asked many questions in his post that I had already answered in my first post. When I say ‘rematch’, it’s because I’ve read the debate and the setting from three years back, and that’s not so much new. There's a lot of it that was voted down at the time in Stortinget. In the meantime, there have been new and improved rules that are actually simpler than part of what the Right proposes. Trond Helleland gave a description of challenges in district municipalities. Yes, there are challenges that we also see, but this cannot lead to one having no control over a certain level of protection against social dumping. It has nothing to do with kneeling for the Landsorganisation, it has to do with what states we want in Norwegian working life. Secondly, part of the proposals to the right hand side would work as intended. I'm not going to go the whole first post again, but one of my main points was that the Right's proposal, some of them at least, can lead to a risk of more bureaucracy and double application processes, and then one has not achieved anything. Trond Helleland also mentioned examples, including: by the Drammen. Yes, I'm not going to hesitate to call it the example that the representative there had in mind, a scandal. But that matter is primarily about what is the definition of ‘discipline’, and it has also asked the majority of governments to take a closer look at it. In the case of Greece, the exact definition problem is illustrated by the fact that UDI and UNE had two different opinions of the same, but there were also actually two different opinions internally in UNE of the same, and then it goes without saying that we have to go and look at the practice of that regulation in relation to the intent of the Storting. So it was about that Right's proposal bears the mark of innovation. I don't entirely agree with that. As I said, very many of these proposals have been promoted and debated before. Now my speaking time starts to go out, but let me take one example, with language training for EEA free citizens. Then I would like to return the question to the Right: Why did I just leave the job? Question no. 2: Why not also the family? That is what the Council of State says in its letter of reply is actually being investigated at the moment. It is also the way that the Bondevik II government abolished a scheme in 2004. It may be innovation internally in the Right and Christian People's Party, but at least that's not new to us. As the council said, the Brochmann committee says no, the Kaldheim committee says yes, the National Labour Party meeting said yes. It's going to be exciting to see what the Lighthouse says to the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1335	I can only join in what Lise Christoffersen says. We have meant this all the time and are very happy that both the Working Party and the Right are now obviously opening up to it. The Labour Party has taken a decision at its national meeting in which agreement has been reached. So we have at least two government parties that are clear that you want this. So I would also encourage the Right to take that discussion a little bit wider. We can't afford this in this year's budget, but we're positive for language training. I'm very excited to see about, for example. The right is going to go into language training for unemployed EEA immigrants in their alternative state budget now, or whether this is something they think of sometime in the future. It'll be all right to see. I just want to attend to one thing that Michael Tetzschner said; it's really just a call to think a little bit about what I'm saying. And then I'm going to take a little bit of tight regulation after. When you say that labour immigration is an unconditional good, I would say that it is not right, because if you have labour immigration that contributes to, for example. To dramatically reduce wage payments to unskilled and unskilled people in Norway, I do not want to see it as unconditionally positive. We need to ensure that labour force in Norway is used for the benefit of society as a whole. It is best that only work is carried out that is as productive as possible and yields the most returnable. If you get a number of unskilled people who work cheaply, you get to wash their hands at car prices, as we do here in Oslo, which is far below what we all think is a decent hourly wage. It's not desirable. Similarly, I would say that there is reason to be a little concerned about that part of the Norwegian business that has taken in most of the work immigrants in recent years, namely the construction industry. There is no industry that has had such a negative productivity trend in recent years as the construction industry. There is no doubt that this can be due to the inclusion of migrant workers with a short-term perspective on how long you intend to hire them, people who travel again when the economic cycle is over – and then you have a negative productivity trend. It also makes me ask the Right to consider whether the question of language training should not be wider than just for the unemployed, and whether it is not good for society to do what they do in Canada, that is, to say that everyone who comes here should get help in language training, so that everyone can do their best in the workplace, instead of saying that you want to wait until you finish using language skills. Let me just finally take one example where I think we need to have a rule change. Today, it will be that if you are a skilled carpenter or carpenter, you will be able to get a job as a carpenter. If you are trained as a building engineer and have an education that will be absolutely lucrative for Norway, you will not receive a work permit as a carpenter. It is not obvious that there is a sensible regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1352	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 390]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1368	Does the President-in-Office wish to speak? That's Robert Eriksson's first speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1371	It's going to be really fast. I just want to formally recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1376	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 390]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1392	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Steinar Gullvåg, who will have the floor on behalf of the case rapporteur, Mr Heidi Ørnlo, who was an alternate when the case was given.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1403	The present proposal deals with changes in the Swedish Social Security Act, the State Pension Fund Act and several other pension laws as a result of the pension reform. Most of the changes are clarification of the applicable law, follow-up of amended legislation and linguistic and regulatory corrections. However, some of the changes are of greater material importance and, for the pensioners concerned, could actually make up some thousands of copies during the year. Take, for example: the coordination exemption for the retirement of supplementary pension after the age of 70. From 1 January 2010, supplementary pension can be made up to the age of 75. Today, the provision of supplementary pension in the population is 67 to 70 years apart from coordination. So now the government proposes that the exemption should be valid until 75 years – as a result of the pension reform. The change will primarily benefit those who do not have full earnings at the age of 70. The effect of the change can be illustrated by the following example: A person born in 1949 who retires at the age of 70 with a pension base of SEK 450 000, who has full earnings after 30 years in the State pension fund and 38 high-income years, would simply be able to increase his total pension by over DKK 5000 per year with a further one-year earnings. Similarly, the changes made to the pension base for survivors' pensions and child pensions for persons who have taken out an old-age pension or the AFP who die before the age of 67 could amount to a couple of three thousand times a year, again calculated on the basis of a pension base of NOK 450000 per year. An overall committee considers that the changes currently made to the coordination legislation update the review of current age limits. The Working Environment Act, as you know, has a 70-year age limit, so we have a general retirement age of 67 years. At the same time, we have adopted a pension reform with a flexible retirement age from 62 to 75 years, with the good intention of getting more people to work longer, contributing to increased value creation and thus reducing the pension burden for future generations. Individuals may choose to withdraw an old-age pension at the time they wish to continue to work and earn new pension entitlements at the age of 75. In the summer, the so-called Mutual Judgment came into the Supreme Court, where the insurance company was given a notice of resignation on the basis of a retirement age of 67 years. In the public sector, workers who wish to do so would normally be able to work at the age of 70. On the other hand, in the open professions it is not uncommon to meet workers who continue to work for up to 80 years. In order for all of us to be able to take advantage of the freedom of choice and flexibility of the new pension system, and also because in the years to come we will have a good use for the knowledge, competence and workforce of the seniors, it is necessary to look at the different age limits of today. The Committee therefore asks the government to assess these issues in close cooperation with the social partners. Age limits are not simple thematic. For us, it is quite unthinkable to have three solutions that they themselves do not want, down to the head of the social partners. On the other hand, the progress party is not embarrassed by this. The journeys they have always done, and will amend the Working Environment Act without prior discussions with the social partners. They want to remove the age limits with a pen stroke, and I assume without a doubt that the social partners are recording what is waiting for them, if so wrong, that the Progress Party is joining a civil government after the 2013 elections. Then, since we treat older workers' places in the labour market to a great extent, I would like to remind you that last year, at this time, more specifically 13 December, we also dealt with a corresponding change proposition. We then terminated the special rules for day-care providers over 64 years of age with a transitional period of one year. The government will also return to this in its 2012 budget proposal. However, on the basis of a few enquiries I have received, there is evidence that some recipients of daily allowances in the age group over 64 have not been informed of this legislative change until now, and much less have received the follow-up they need and as the Committee provided. I have in all modesty brought this up with the Council of State, which of course needs to go into the matter more closely. The Council of State will come back to this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1426	There are important points the rapporteur points out, namely that – all of them – you should be able to earn a pension until you are 75 years old, and also that you can have the opportunity to stay in the labour market for so long. I am a little surprised when I hear the rapporteur's statement, and wonder if he has a double track or something ambivalent in his approach to the problem. First of all, he says that he now wants to change the age limits, and at the same time he gives reference to the Progress Party which is proposing the concrete legislative change and which is necessary to change the age limits. He thinks he's unprofessional, but he wants to do it at the same time. Then I find it strange that the government parties do not make a proposal based on what they really want, instead of constantly blaming that kind of discussion between the social partners. The first time this was up was in 2006. It was then said that it had to be discussed by the social partners. In 2009, the Minister of Finance was out and said that this was a rule that had to be changed. It was then also to be discussed by the social partners. The Progress Party promoted a proposal for a representative. The proposal could not be supported. The right, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party have had a number of proposals on the draft budget. Then it was also referred to that one could not support the proposals. They had to be discussed by the social partners. There have been a number of wage settlements since those proposals were made. The social partners have had plenty of opportunities to discuss this and come to a conclusion. When this does not happen, and when we see the Mutual judgment: it is this assembly that is the legislative assembly. If we believe that the Mutual judgment is wrong, if we think it is wrong that company internal rules can push employees out of work from 67 years, then it is this assembly that must point it out. It is this assembly that has to change those laws. I very much hope that the representative of Gullvåg and the government parties too believes it is right that this assembly should govern the law, including in terms of future labour policy. Then I'm a little surprised – and a little disappointed – that you really want to welcome the proposals of the Progress Party, but you choose to vote against it. With regard to the changes proposed in the pension scheme, I agree with you. Then there is one important element: the representative Gullvåg goes out into the media and refers to the curtailment that is taking place, and the coordination with those with public occupational pensions. He was out on the NRK 20th October, if I'm not wrong. I also refer to a look-up in the evening post that concerns that issue. After all, the representative of Gullvåg or the government parties has made no changes at all for that group — not a single change. The law is passed on today, and it is made visible in the legal text. There's a difference, because the case goes on those who end, and they start taking out an old age pension when they're 67, but they want to keep earning a retirement pension until they're 70. Then you think it would be wrong to have coordination as if you had also taken out an old age pension at 70 years. That is the problem in relation to that case and in relation to that coordination. There is nothing to do with this law – no world thing. You just continue to have the opportunity to earn a retirement pension until you're 75 years old. But the Progress Party wants to invite the government parties and to make a proposal in relation to the budget, which also corrects that skepticism, and then I expect the statements of the representative of Gullvåg in the media to stand by and that the Labour Party supports that proposal, so that we get a majority in the Stortinget for that proposal when we vote during the budget debate. Finally, I should like to refer to the proposal that has been made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1441	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1444	First, I would like to say that it was a thorough and good contribution from the case-rapporteur, and I share many of his reflections, at least what was on behalf of the committee. But the reason why I want to take the floor is the problem that, as a legislative assembly, we have chosen to add to a reform where a person can earn a pension of 75 years, while we have also introduced a living adjustment, both to stimulate people to work and to stand longer in work, and also through it add up to a savings. In order for pensioners to be allowed to compensate for the living adjustments, it is added that they can be allowed to work longer. It gives us a lot of responsibility, because when we see that the case is that you actually don't get to work anymore, that there are obstacles to getting you to work longer, it also requires that we in this room make some changes. I also think that the report to the rapporteur shows that there is a need for a review, that some changes are needed. As others have pointed out, the Reciprocal judgment has made it possible for a company to agree alternative schemes for whom, for example: must go first. We have previously met with older pilots who have been fired only if they are over 60 years old, and lost cause in that respect. The contract law is so strong that it actually outlaws the environmental protection law. I thought it was a job protection, I, until they were 70 years old, and then one could discuss that limit, but that it's actually that one could risk having to go as early as just over 60 years old, is a big problem. As far as I can see, nothing has been done with the special age limits since 1960. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 24 for 2005-2006 asked the Committee at Innst. O. No 18 in the same year on a separate review of the special age limits in working life and legislation, and that one should return to the Stortinget in spring 2006. The Committee pointed out that this ‘research must be based on the cross-political desire to combat discrimination in the labour market, the promotion of an inclusive working life and the prevention of the exclusion of older workers’. I do not have the overview of all the work that has been done since then, but it shows that this problem is not new. It has been known for a long time, and it has been discussed many times. So it should be interesting to know when this case, the review, comes, so that we can get into it thoroughly. It is, as the rapporteur says, a dilemma in this matter with age limits. But as a legislative assembly that has introduced 75-year-old lifestyle adjustment and earnings, we have a great responsibility. In this context, I would also encourage the Minister to address this as an important part of – and that is probably part of – the discussions with the parties. In particular, it requires a new and better employer policy. One may be required to provide more opportunities for the seniors, so that one can choose other types of career solutions at the end – organisation to allow them to take other roles – that the employer has a desire for them to be, and that they are not pushed out and prevented from joining. Finally, I just want to join in what the rapporteur said about short-term performance in relation to them over 64 years of age. It's very important, and we pointed out in the debate last year, that there should also be a thorough review of all the benefits there. So my message today is that we need things to come, because it's an important issue. There are many people who are now being hit by this, and we need to get things from the government, so that one can get this thoroughly handled in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1461	It has proved necessary to make certain clarifications, clarifications and linguistic adjustments in the law on social security, the law on the State pension fund and some other laws. Non-pensioners in popular security receive an old-age pension from the age of 67. Persons who are disabled because of occupational injury but who are not entitled to an old-age pension because they have less than three years of social security are currently receiving disability benefits. A new regulation and lifestyle adjustment of the age pension of the population is in place. Continuing the current rules will mean that occupational injury with less than three years of social security will receive a higher benefit of 67 years than occupational injury with more than three years of social security and therefore receive a life-adjusted retirement pension. This has not been intended and the proposal provides for derogations from the three-year period of social security for persons who have been granted invalidity pension following occupational injury. Otherwise, the proposal for amendments to the CPR includes clarifications and linguistic corrections. Furthermore, some clarifications in the Law on the Coordination of Pensions and Social Security Benefits have proved necessary in relation to the coordination of public service pensions with retirement and invalidity pensions from social security. It must be made clear from the coordination provisions that the additions to the age and disability pensioners of the population are mandatory for coordination in order to ensure a minimum level of pensions. Supplementary pension from social security earned in the years 67 to 69 following withdrawal of a full occupational pension is currently excluded from coordination. From 2010 onwards, pension funds may be made up of people’s pensions up to the age of 75 in the calendar year in question. It is reasonable that the coordination exemption should also apply to such vesting for the years from the age of 70 to the age of 75. Old-age pensions and contractual pensions from public occupational pension schemes are regulated in the same way as old-age pensions from social security, i.e. with the wage increase, then subtract 0,75 pst. In order to prevent multiple years of weaker regulation in early retirement, the pension base in the retirement pension shall be recalculated at the age of 67 and the AFP at the age of 67 by re-regulating the basis with the wage increase from the retirement to the age of 67. If the member dies before the age of 67, the pension basis has not yet been re-regulated in this way. Therefore, widowed and child-retirement pensions will be calculated on the basis of the weaker unregulated pension basis. I do not think this is reasonable, and that has not been the intention either. The proposed change in, inter alia: law on the State pension fund will rectify this. I am pleased that an overall committee supports the government's proposals for the necessary changes to pension and coordination legislation. The age limits in working life are not part of the current legislative proposal. As we have said before, it is natural to look at the age limits of working life in the light of the pension reform, so I will come back to this. I just want to stress that the Mutual judgment does not give a completely random access to cancelling employees under the age of 67. It is clear that we must have non-discriminatory rules, etc. But I'm very clear that the Mutual Judgment is a judgment of reflection, and that we have to look into these rules. One of the things we're waiting for is the investigation into the Banking Law Commission II. It is supposedly expected to come before Christmas. It is an important input for us to be able to look closely at this scheme, which is also a starting point for businesses to have some points of view when calculating their future pension liabilities. They need to be based on when employees leave the job. I refer to questions raised in connection with the transitional arrangements established in connection with the winding-up of the special rules for older persons receiving the daily allowance from 1 January 2011 and the information provided to those concerned in this respect. In the light of enquiries that have been made, I have asked the Working and Welfare Committee to provide a full explanation of the procedure relating to the amendment of the law and the transitional rules. When this statement is available, I will assess whether there is a need for action, and inform the Storting about this in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1487	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1490	As I pointed out in my statement, and as the Council of State also underlined in its statement, changes have now been made to the coordination legislation for those who have started withdrawals of occupational pensions, i.e. the start of off-takes by, for example: Sixty-seven years old, but you keep earning a living until you're e.g. 70 years – or 75 years, for that matter. If you think of the opposite, a person who works in the public sector, a resource person who is still at work and doesn't want to go into the private sector. He will continue to work in the business he has been employed in, but begins to take out a retirement pension from 67 years and continues to earn a retirement pension until he is 70 years old. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that the social security of the person concerned should be coordinated as if he had earned a retirement pension until he is 70 years old? That's where you get the negative difference. Will the Council of State also make changes in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1497	First, I would like to stress that the situation described by the representative is a consequence of the fact that we have two different pension schemes in the public and private sectors respectively. It has never been this government's wish to have this, but through the 2009 negotiations we did not get the pensioners from the public on a scheme that would have made this issue nonexistent. What has been done is to introduce a flexible retirement pension for state pensioners, but a gross pension scheme of 66 pst has been maintained. When the two things work together, they tell you that if you take out the people's pension earlier, you're going to get a lower total pension per year over time. But you add what you actually get in the three years of popular retirement, you're going to come out more or less in the same way. You don't get in both bag and bag, nor is it the government's wish for you to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1504	My question is really linked to my post, because I think we should get a thorough review of the legislation. The 70-year limit is one thing, we've discussed that before. But there have been cases, and, as the Council of State points out, it is not a general access. But at least it might seem like it's slipping in that direction, and it's a challenge for the verdicts anyway. Does the Council not agree that there should be an assessment and that this is problematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1510	I have also stated and made it quite clear that we are going to go through the following: we have to go through the situation that the Mutual Judgment shows. There, I think it is very important to have a discussion with the parties, because there are costs associated with this for the pension scheme. Then we have to go through the 75-year-old limit versus 70-year-olds. There are, as the representative also says, two different questions. Then we have to get back to the special age limits. It is also announced, and I will come back when we can come back to it in concrete terms – there were many ‘back’ here. It's a big investigation to go through all the special age limits, so in my view we should look at the first two questions isolated first, otherwise I think this could take a very long time. Perhaps the most important link with older people in working life is to prevent the discrimination we see. We may have very good age rules, but if the situation for older people in the workplace is such that they don't want to be at work, it will help very little if we break the age limits. So these three things we have to do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1517	Just a brief comment on the answer to the previous question: it's not about getting in both bag and bag, but it's about not coordinating with an amount that you haven't earned. But we can do that in another debate, we can get back to it. What I want to ask questions about now, goes to the Mutual judgment. Both the representative Ropstad and the Council of State have been within it thoroughly. My approach is quite simple, because the way it works today is shown in some of the judgments of the company's internal rules that are not negotiated with the employees, but adopted on the board of directors of Mutuals, and that give these consequences. Then my question becomes more of a principle nature: does the Council of State think it is right that company internal rules should be ranked above the legislative rules laid down in the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1526	Today's work environment law is designed in such a way that it is lawful to do so. I will admit that I also put myself very thoroughly into that jukebox when I saw this, to be sure that it is legal. It's legitimate to do that. That's the legal situation. But as I have expressed, and as I feel very many here in this room share, this is a situation we should look at how we should deal with the future, and therefore I am clear that I am coming back to this. However, it is a point to get the assessment to the Banking Law Commission II, which will also look at this type of pension scheme. But the intentions I think we're going to agree on a long way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1533	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1536	I am not particularly surprised that the Progress Party once again demonstrates that they have very little regard for the role played by the social partners, and in particular the role played by the social partners in pension matters. In fact, pension conditions are largely regulated by tariff agreements in Norwegian society. I'm glad. I am also pleased that the social partners have helped us to have a pension reform that is widespread, not only in the labour market, but in the Norwegian community. What I am amazed at is that the Progress Party does not understand the sequence of actions resulting from the pension reform, i.e. that in retrospect – as the purpose has always been – the consequences of the reform in relation to the age limits in working life can be seen, which I made an attempt to sketch in my main post. Now the Council of State also answered a question from the representative Eriksson on coordination issues in the public sector. So once again, we have the situation that the parties have negotiated a pension agreement in 2009, which stands and which has consequences for retirement from the age of 67 to the age of 75, in the public sector, and which, as the Council of State correctly pointed out, provides a different scheme from that of the private sector. Then you can ask yourself whether you like or not the outcome of the negotiations that was achieved in 2009 in the public sector. I only note that the parties agreed on an arrangement, and until the parties agree on a new arrangement, the arrangement we have is at hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1543	With respect to reporting to the representative of Gullvåg, I wonder if we are actually participating in the same debate and discussing the same thing. I'm a little surprised at that, because here it gets mixed up a lot that has nothing to do with that matter. But let me give a little answer to what the parties have come up with in terms of pensions: yes, but we also know that in retrospect – since public service pensions were negotiated in the wage settlement in 2009, after those decisions were taken – LO Municipality, Parat, YS and several people have arranged for changes to be desired because there have been unintended effects. It went a little fast in the swings that night, to say it in good Norwegian. That's the result. So, as a legislative assembly, we're going to borrow back and say, that's their problem. We don't want to decide that things were moving fast, that you want to make changes now that we see the unintended effects. So what? I think it is an arrogant attitude towards the social partners that the representative Gullvåg is obviously very concerned about. To the legal point here, there is no need to go in and redefine the principles of the decision on which the parties agreed. It's a relatively simple legal change that's going to get rid of the unintended effect, and in my mind, it's just the Storing that can make the legal changes. Then we have to be willing to do them, instead of sitting back and blaming someone else completely, without taking the responsibility we have as a legislative assembly. My point with regard to the age limit: the social partners have had plenty of opportunities from 2006 to today to negotiate and address this issue. You don't want to. But if we also think it's right to make the changes to the law, yes, I mean in principle that it's the Stortinget who's also going to make the legal decisions for what's related to working life. It is we who make the law, and if we believe that it is wrong – even if the parties will not address the debate they have been invited to do now for over five years – we must be able to do what we think is right. It's that simple. At least that's how I take care of my elected government and will take care of it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 390]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1570	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1579	The proposal of the representative of Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tenden for the amendment of the code of professional indemnity insurance is appended to the minutes by the majority. The concrete proposal is – to say the least – aimed at changing the legislation so that frost damage that is not caused by accidents or that has occurred in ice-cream strips is also covered by the Code of Professional Injury. It is a unanimous committee which considers that it would be unfortunate to make this individual amendment to the Occupational Insurance Act and the Occupational Disease Regulation before the outcome of the wider review of the field of occupational injury is available. Work is in progress to review the legislation on occupational injury on a general basis as a follow-up to NOU 2004:3 Insurance against accidents at work. The opposition expresses, in its observations, an impatience after considering an overall assessment of the field of occupational injury. To that I would like to point out that there has been progress in the process, and the Ministry has submitted consultation proposals on the follow-up to the investigation, and a consultation has been carried out, among other things. also deals with a new organisational model for the field of occupational injury. I share the impatience of the opposition, but I would also like to stress that this is a matter that raises complex issues and has major economic implications for our business. I would like to take this opportunity to encourage the social partners to now fully recognise the need for changes in this area and, above all, to help find coherent and robust solutions for future professional indemnity insurance. I am pleased that in Stortinget today there seems to be a broad support that today's complicated and little transparent two-track system should be replaced by a simpler system. One of the conditions which the majority has highlighted in particular that a desire to take into account in the work of a new occupational disease list is the appearance of disease lists and legislation in a gender perspective. For good reasons, the current system of occupational injury is better suited to men than to women. The Central Party has programmed that the Professional Indemnity Act should be reviewed and adapted to all professional groups. We have done that because we want security for everyone who participates in the labour market, and we believe that good occupational injury insurance is an important part of our social security network. We look forward to getting an overall case to Stortinget on the topic. I then record that the minority in the committee is more concerned with getting a case before April, than taking time for a good process involving the parties. We are impatient, but we want to set aside time for a good process with the parties and hope that it is possible to get an overall case on this to the Stortinget during 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1596	A great deal of thanks to the Left, who has presented a document dealing with areas as important as legislation and professional indemnity insurance. This once again highlights the fact that one does not have a good enough code — a code that not only highlights the theme of cold and frost damage, but also other and emerging diseases that should be highlighted by changes in society and new professions and environments, which can in turn affect and cause occupational harm to people. We have had a big debate in this Chamber, among others. about the dental secretary, who also created a situation where a question was asked about this. The Progress Party wants a wide and thorough review of current occupational disease lists. But there is reason to ask questions about the time when the government is going to spend on a billing and a possible amendment of the legislation. To the case spokesman: Yes, we want progress, and we want a good process. But – help me – from November 2008 until today it has been jamming for a few years. It is especially important that you should use this for such a long time. Yeah, I agree that it's important. But we now demand that something happen. That's why we put in our proposal that we have a date to stick to, and I thought that was positive. I note that the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1603	The representative Laila Marie Reiertsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1606	Matters about the legislation on occupational injury and disease are important because it deals with one of the important safety networks we have in our country related to the risk of being at work. It's complicated. But I share the impatience after having this legislation revised. It's not about the changes we've seen coming in recent years. This has been a need that has been there for a very long time – especially in relation to the gender perspective and the fact that many diseases that women suffer in typical women's prisons are not captured by the legislation we have today. Then it's also about some rather complicated medical and professional disagreements related to these issues. Today, dental assistants and any mercury damage have been mentioned, and there are a number of other disorders to which the type of medical and professional disagreement is also linked. There is a need to clarify this. Some of these questions may not find a medical and professional clarification, but require a political decision as to where to deal with these issues – precisely because it may be difficult to find the right medical justification for all matters that come under this issue. It is also very important, what is said, that the social partners have to go into this seriously, because this is also a responsibility for employers to accept new schemes that will actually be quite costly for them, too, if they do not choose a different approach to it from employers and are much more committed to IA work and to ensuring that the working environment creates less ill health and less damage in the future. It's particularly interesting about many of the women's prisons, where we see that exclusion from work is great. There are, to a large extent, costs that these women and families are taking for granted, because they are falling into pay because they cannot stand in full positions – today, very many of them do not recognise their disease or their harm within the legislation we are now in the process of doing a job. The specific matter raised in this Document 8 proposal is, of course, also a matter to be considered. It says something about the legislation being old and dealing with a working life that is not exactly what it is today. I fully agree with those who say that the most important thing to put in place now is a systematic, wide-ranging review, so that you get to grips with the really big deficiencies in today's system. These are the major deficiencies related to occupational diseases and injuries specifically related to the participation of women and women in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1615	I would also like to thank the proposers for presenting an important issue that we have had a good discussion both in the Committee and here in the Stortinget. It is important to have good professional damages, and we must have good rules. The left hand side's starting point is sloppy, but it's really good. They have an example that shows it quite well, and with my logic I think it sounds very reasonable. When one assumes that one who goes through the ice and gets frost damage is entitled to compensation, while one who is at work or in the military, and who wears wet socks for a long time or for other reasons freezes a lot and gets frost damage, does not have a claim for compensation, it sounds very special – but it is a good example that something has to be done. At the same time, we're very concerned that it also has to be seen in a whole. I think, as many people have been concerned, that when, for example, in the case of equality, where the list of occupational injuries shows that nine out of ten concern men, it is special. The last time you went through this thoroughly, was in 1957 – more than 50 ago. It goes without saying that there has been some development, and therefore it is clear that the opposition is impatient. But I am also a little overly impatient with the government parties. I think it was a good post by Karin Andersen, and I understand that she is impatient, but when I worked on the matter, I found a post by Karin Andersen that in 2008 is horrified by the rules – it's been over three years since that. When you look at the case, it is clear that it has been working on this for a long time, and I understand that it has been important to make assessments along the way and come back with NOUs and new hearings. But one started in 2001, got a NOU in 2004, a NOU in 2008 and a hearing right after, and then I think from the hearing in the autumn of 2008 until today it should have been possible to file a case. That is why I have to say that it is really a bit embarrassing that the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which I think is very good – where one points to the need for action now, and that the matter should come to spring – is voted down. It should actually be transmitted – at least – because it is important that it comes soon. The reason why I also think it is important that a non-voting vote for the proposals today is, as the Council pointed out in the letter of reply, that it can have very wide consequences to adopt this – to do so on the basis of this case in isolation is not correct. That's why the area is over-mature – I kept saying – for a review, but the review we've had; it's over-mature for a change. I think it's a paradox that it's the judiciary that's going to solve the problems and not us who's here. That is why I believe that there should be a clearer position from the political team on what occupational damage should be within the framework. I would also like to draw up several parallels: the dental assistants are mentioned, which I think is an important example of mercury damage, but also, as one has been in the past sometimes, the oil workers who, from my point of view, have clearly been exposed to chemicals at work – you don't come with stuffed hands if you haven't been. It is clear that we have a great responsibility here for new legislation to come into place. That's why I'm glad it's working, I'm glad it's being reviewed, but I'd be even more happy if something came handy. It is clear that after the matter we had before, there is a lot to review, and a lot to go back to Stortinget, but this is one of the fields that really needs priority. Therefore, the opposition, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party, go together to demand that the matter now also come to the Stortinget. To be honest, I think that the government parties could also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1630	This is the national parliament of the country. That means we're going to have the big, general look. But we're also a composition of representatives, we have an ombudsman role. Today's proposal from the Left is based on our ombudsman role, an ombudsman role, which is that when we look at the law up against reality, it is not always that reality is what we thought it would be when the law was made. This is a good example of it: when a soldier under manoeuvre, at his job, gets frost damage and is told that you cannot get professional damages because it was not an acute incident, you can see that it is fundamentally breaking with the intention and thinking that we have in this room. Then I see it as my duty as an agent to take up that law. That is what we have done in this proposal. And then I realize you have to see this in a larger context. But I also realize that it's important to be a little impatient here, because now we've been waiting very, very long. I understand that it is a complicated matter, but I believe that the Storting should place an order, and a deadline, because when we should get that matter out. For this not only concerns our history of a frozen soldier, it also concerns many others. I believe that we are not doing our ombudsman role properly if we are unable to set deadlines for when we are going to clean up these faults.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1637	The representative Skei Grande might want to make some suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1640	No, I support the proposal that has been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1645	The representative of Skei Grande supports the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1649	The representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden have submitted proposals for amendments to the Code of Occupational Indemnity Insurance. In concrete terms, amendments to the Vocational Insurance Act and to the so-called occupational disease list in the social security system have been proposed. The background to the proposal appears to be a judgment in the Supreme Court, where cold damage was not covered by the Occupational Insurers Act. I refer to the Minister of Justice letter of 19 May 2011, where a thorough evaluation of the proposal has been made, and I would just like to add some additional comments to this. The government is concerned that we must have good arrangements to ensure the economic and personal safety of workers in the event of occupational injury and diseases, including those affected by cold damage. However, it is not the case that workers who have suffered cold damage are without occupational injury rights in accordance with the applicable legislation. Today, cold damage can be recognised as a occupational injury both under the social security system and under the Employment Insurance Act if it is caused by an accident at work. In addition, cold damage may be recognised as a occupational disease under both legislations if it is caused by cold and low temperature working in ice-sea strips. In addition, cold damage may be recognised as a occupational injury or disease under the so-called safety valve of the Occupational Insurers Act. However, the Supreme Court found that an exercise of more than four days could not be regarded as a work process within the meaning of the law. Today, workers are guaranteed financial compensation for occupational injuries and diseases through social security and the statutory occupational indemnity insurance. This two-track system works, but it is not particularly appropriate. In addition, today’s legislation does not provide an adequate response to the challenges facing you in the future. In 2007, the Ministry of Labour, at the hearing, had a new proposal for the organisation of a new occupational injury regime. The proposal includes, inter alia, the establishment of a self-employed and independent public-sector work injury unit to determine the claim for compensation in the event of occupational injury. In the light of the input of the Hearing Officers, the proposal was further elaborated and concreteised and re-consulted in 2009. There is a broad consensus that one should combine today's two occupational injury schemes with one occupational injury insurance. The Ministry’s proposals at the hearings provided a solution taking into account different interests. It is important that a thorough job is done and that a new scheme is supported by the social partners. The Ministry of Labour aims to have contact with the organisations concerned and return to Stortinget with the matter during the second half of 2012. I understand that we have been impatient in this matter, but I would like to stress that this is a complex issue with a major economic impact on business, and where the choices we make also have major consequences for those you want to regulate, which in turn may have different unintended consequences. So the need to investigate this further is present. But I have now been clear in the second half of 2012. Until the outcome of the work to assess the need for changes in the organisation and regulation of occupational injury, it would be unfortunate, in the government's view, to make individual changes to the Professional Damage Insurance Act and the Occupational Disease Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1673	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good article. It's not so often here in this room that we're as few as we are today, and I think that's positive. The council finally said that one would come back to Stortinget in the second half of next year, i.e. that between June and December we can expect a case back to Stortinget. But that's a little special, because we made a proposal in April and thought that this should be in place by then. Is it difficult for the Council of State to say that we could have arranged this for April, or does it have to be an own proposal on this when it comes to time, to say it like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1680	I am now clear on the second half of 2012. I stress that this is a difficult matter. It must also be firmly anchored in the business community, because this has a high economic cost for Norwegian business. I think you should be aware of that. I believe this is right, given the arguments that everyone has heard here today, and that all the representatives have expressed, but there is a job to be done, and April is not long longer. I must also be allowed to say that it is the same who sits and deals with both the under-reform, the pension reform, etc. That is why this has had to be taken in order. Now I am clear that it will come in the second half of 2012. I hope you can settle down with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1689	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 393]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1707	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 393]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1723	This matter concerns only three technical changes to the Payment System Act and the Finance Act. This is the implementation of EEA rules corresponding to two Directives, to which the Stortinget has already joined. As I said, it's very technical, but I'll try to go through the three changes that happen. The amendments to the Finality Directive are mainly the basis for technological development, increasing international competition and increasing security requirements. Rules are proposed to ensure uniform legal protection acts and effects between interconnected systems. The changes take up the amount of connections between, for example, market places and providers' centres. The reason for this increase is increased globalisation, European integration and financial and technological innovations that have taken place in the last decade. The second amendment is to implement EEA rules corresponding to the e-money directive, or electronic money. The E-money Directive lays down rules on the right to dispose of electronic money, under this a definition of the transaction of electronic money, and the rules on e-money transactions. In addition to e-money taking, credit institutions may, for example: banks such as Noregs Bank and Postgiro offices, move out electronic money. The deadline for implementing the Directive was 30 April of this year for EU countries. It is not a separate deadline for EEA countries, but in view of the importance of the best possible consistency between EU law and EEA law, it should be implemented in Norwegian law as close as possible to the EU deadline for the corresponding Directive. For this reason, it is proposed to adopt a temporary solution in the Finance Act with senior decisions on electronic money transactions. The proposal is based on the proposals of the Banking Act Commission and will easily be able to lead to a new set of financial laws. The third amendment of the law states that the central authority of the State may levy a compulsory fee for breaches under the Securities Trading Act. The central government collection centre has the necessary apparatus and procedures for handling such matters and will be able to charge fees on behalf of the State in a more efficient way than the Financial Supervisory Authority or others. There is a joint committee that is in charge of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1738	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 393]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1755	This proposal on new mutual funds law is based on a proposal from a working group set up by the Financial Supervisory Authority. This will replace the applicable law, the mutual fund law, which dates from 1981. The legislative proposal involves, on the one hand, a continuation and, on the other, changes to the existing law. The background to the amendments to the bill in relation to the law in force is changes to the EEA rules. The new Directive goes far beyond previous directives, but also contains new rules and regulations aimed at facilitating greater efficiency in the management of unit trusts and some flexibility in how mutual funds can be organised and managed, particularly across borders, so as to strengthen the competitiveness of the European unit trust industry, giving investors greater choice, while improving access to information on funds. The new framework facilitates better use of economies of scale in management, including: through access to merger of funds and by facilitating a structure of feeder and master UCITS. Access to the establishment of unit trusts in a country other than that of the management company may involve new business opportunities for the companies and increased competition in individual unit trust markets. Greater flexibility in the creation and management of unit trusts may strengthen unit trusts as investment options and as referred to above strengthen the competitiveness of the European unit trust industry. It is also considered that the Directive will not have a significant economic and administrative impact on the authorities. The legislative proposal provides for certain new tasks to be entrusted to the Financial Supervisory Authority, which could lead to further work, but the Committee and the Ministry consider that this can be carried out within the current budgetary framework. In dealing with this matter within the Committee, we asked for written consultation so that the industry concerned could make representations. The only recording we received was from the Swedish Securities Fund Association, where they briefly underlined that the Norwegian fund industry benefits from the directive and that they were very pleased that the finance committee in a busy budget had cleared up the room for consideration of the proposal for a new securities law. However, this directive already had a deadline for implementation on 1 July this year, and they would have preferred that the Norwegian authorities had sent this matter to Stortinget somewhat earlier. They consider it unfortunate that Norwegian fund management companies in this way suffer losses as a result of late Norwegian treatment. They were therefore very pleased that we in the Financial Committee have intensified our consideration. As rapporteur of the case, I am, of course, very pleased with the contributions made by the association, because they had some good points – that something could be misunderstood, which was corrected by the Finance Committee. At the same time, I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the representatives of the government parties who have acted constructively in this matter and have shown their willingness to correct ambiguities, so that there is now an overall finance committee under the new Securities Fund Act. Finally, a note containing proposals for a minor amendment to the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6-7 of the draft law was included in the vote, which was also distributed to the representatives and which, on the basis of the Committee's proposal, is replaced by the following: «Locations according to Section 6-6, second paragraph, No. 1 to 2 may, however, represent up to 20 per cent of the fund's assets if the financial instruments have been issued by different companies in the same group.» The Committee's proposal for this amended legislative text was properly incorporated into the recommendation issued. Nevertheless, it has surprisingly gone away on the way to the printed setting. I would just like to raise the proposal on behalf of the whole committee. By doing so, I am only promoting the same proposal, which has already been made in the vote, but which has not been expressed in the vote by an incurrency.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1784	The rapporteur has then explained that there is an error in the vote and what proposal is being adopted, and has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 396]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1802	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1813	Young people's Olympics 2016 is a happy thing. It is good to note that all parties make proposals to the Government to provide the necessary guarantees and to make the necessary commitments on funds, so that the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee can take on this event. Norway is the only applicant. This means that when we are decided to provide guarantees and grants today, it means for all practical purposes that Norway receives this event. This is an important event, which will help to strengthen the interest in youth sport. It is particularly motivating that this event will also promote cultural values and value-related activities, including: under the direction of the Norwegian Humanist Academy, Nansenskolen. The Olympic movement is also built on important fundamental values relating to peace, participation and human rights. There are conditions that we should be proud of: that we are going to bring this into the Olympic events to a greater degree than what we might have seen in many places so far. Young people’s Olympics also fit well into the plans to develop the Lillehammer region into a fine winter sports destination. The Olympic legacy plans, so-called Olympic legacy, could contribute to building sports-related competences relevant to the whole country. While priority should be given to the planning and implementation of youth games, it is worth noting that the IOC also has a sporting after-use perspective in its participation. It's not insignificant in this arrangement. The IOC, in addition to providing the toys with all rights and opportunities, also includes significant financial resources. This approach should also open up good processes in view of the high level of post-use through the planning and implementation phase. In this context, we come to a point where there is a slightly different approximation between the opposition and the government parties. The opposition would have liked to have seen a slightly different grip from that provided by the government on the matter of checking the arrangement in relation to the guarantees given. It is related to the issue of ownership. On the right-hand side, we take note that with reference to the guarantee the government wants control through ownership. We also believe, of course, that good control of the use of state resources is necessary, but we believe that this can and should be done in more operational ways than owning. It will be fully possible to carry out checks through established control procedures, regular reporting and, if necessary, to establish a control function in the organisation to be established. The right considers that the participating actors, the Norwegian Sports Association, the relevant municipalities, etc., should have a dominant ownership and thus control the use of the buffer that might remain. This underpins the autonomous position of sport, creates incentives for good cost-saving interventions, and provides motivation to facilitate best practice for post-use purposes. The right-wing majority takes note of this, but will, of course, follow closely the government's choice of how to deal with this ownership, and the will and initiative of the government – i.e. the Ministry of Culture – to follow up both the event as such and the after-use options and perspectives described by both the promoter and the applicant for this event. But first of all, this is a joy that we stand together for. We think we can join each other – I kept saying – and wish you luck with an amazingly exciting and promising project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1836	The President cannot see Gunn Karin Gjul in the Chamber, and thus the President shall pass the floor on to Mr Öyvind Korsberg, who shall have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1839	Thank you for that, President! It is a good replacement for the undersigned to come – instead of Gunn Karin Gjul. But to use the sports language, she is well reported and is en route. Let me first thank the case rapporteur for an excellent job in dealing with this matter in the committee. As the rapporteur explained, there is consensus in the Committee and in the Storting on this matter and that it is a matter of pleasure. I am also glad that the committee is so fluent in speaking time in a matter that we fully agree on – the last was probably a bit ironic. It is not often that you are allowed to deal with an application, or feel something about an OL application, which is as realistic as this one. Some other applications, which have not yet come to the Stortinget, but which have been debated in the media, have a completely different perception of reality than this application, just so it's said. There is a broad consensus on supporting this application. The importance of facilitating the situation for young people too is seen in order for them to get an arena to practice their sport and sport. This age group, from 14 to 18 years of age, which this is all about, takes a lot of steps into the adult world as well in sports. Therefore, it is good to give priority to such a guarantee, so that there is an opportunity to get this event in Norway. On one point, the committee separates a little, and that goes with the proposal that we have put forward, which I also put forward here in the Chamber. We believe that a youth Olympic is great. But it's located in one place, and we think it should be in place to give a good opportunity to the rest of the country too, because it's in the whole country you find good sportsmen. One finds a coming Andreas Thorkildsen, a coming Petter Northug, a coming Thor Hushovd and a coming Marit Bjørgen. They're all over the country, and that's why we want to make things right. So we are promoting a proposal to grant as much money as this state guarantee, which can then spread across the country. I think that such a proposal had been very well received in Sport Norway, because what we know – and we will also deal with the next issue – is that there is a screaming need across the country for funds for sport. This applies not least to children’s, youth and youth sport. That some parties who in many ways speak hot for these groups, can't be supporting such a proposal, I think it's a little strange. The value of providing funds to this group around the country is seen if you are interested in sports, and if you are involved in some of the sports that take place around the country. So this would be loving means. One could in many ways have arranged a mini-OL in every state of the country and received a lot of great and good attention about this. But that's not what the other parties want to be on. I think that's a little sad and a little looked at on behalf of the sport – the children's, youth and youth sport in Norway. Finally, I would like to mention in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party, and I hope and wish that several parties can join the excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1854	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1857	In the time I was a state politician in Uppland, I must admit that this youth Olympic stood out as something unclear to me, both what it was, what it was supposed to be, and what it could be. I must admit that as a big-time politician, I am still a little insecure, while supporting the setting here today – no doubt about it. I don't think I'm alone in being insecure here, and I also mean for understandable reasons, because this is going to be a winter Olympic, we're going to say, in the traditional sense -- here it's going to be competitive in more or less noble Olympic battle in seven exercises -- but at the same time it's going to be something more, hopefully something much more. Because in addition to the sport competition, something that has been called a compulsory cultural and educational programme here, and it is clear that then this starts to be quite different from what we traditionally associate with Olympic games. This deviation gets bigger and bigger the more we read in the documents. Here, there are words that we don't usually associate with OL: latitude profile, volunteer culture, health and nutrition, social responsibility, multicultural dialogue, etc., and institutions like the Nansen School are emerging, for example. For me and for SV – it should have been in reverse order maybe – it is important with these deviations. That's exactly what makes the youth Olympics so exciting, and that's exactly what makes it so right that even in the United Kingdom we are behind that development work and then the event that's going to take place. But, as I said, it's demanding, partly because the width is demanding in itself, without it going at the expense of quality, and then it's demanding simply because here we're talking about a lot of dissolved land, i.e. a concept that needs to be developed. It's not just copying past organizers. The application also has a clear bearing on the fact that it has such an overall turn and strong social angle. One keyword that is also very clear in the application, and that is not yet mentioned, is this with the environment. It was presented as one of the four key values to be raised, together with sport, culture and education, mentioned earlier in the article. It is clear that we from Lillehammer and Oppland, that is, there is something Lillehammer – or the Mjø area, Oppland and Hedmark – have just shown before, is that we are good at taking the environmental dimension into an Olympic event. In this case, we should have the best assumptions to do it this time as well. But it's not going to get off. This was years ago. There are not so many who attended that event at that time, and there is no doubt that sails if this has been written into the documents so far, it is not concrete enough, and well enough – clearly enough. So here's also a development work to be done in the future, so we're just going to get this with the environmental dimension in place. This in itself should have been entirely maritime in connection with such an event. Since 1994, the IOC has marked very well that this is precisely a dimension to be linked to all OL events – that conferences are organised, etc. In this regard – but I don’t think there is any doubt that the environmental dimension could have been much more focused in recent events, somewhat compared to what they did at Lillehammer in their time. So here's all the reason to take a new take-off and once again show that not least we in Norway are concerned that it's important that the environment and the OL are well connected. Then we're not just thinking about expansion – it's also important. Here it is particularly important to show that we are able to rehabilitate in an environmentally good way. It's very important that we take the environmental dimension into account, both before, during and after, not only does it become sport and culture out of it, but it also becomes environment – that it really becomes a fourth dimension, that becomes part of our whole message about this event. And it's very important that we show that it's going to be one – let's say – sustainable consumption also in the environmental sense. It is nice that this is going through here today – as it certainly does – and I look forward very much to the exciting development work, not least, which will take place until the 2016 event.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1872	The question of arranging Olympic winter games for youth in 2016 is a very positive one, which creates a lot of commitment and will mean a lot to Lillehammer and the region around, but it is also a matter that is very relevant and interesting to the whole country. The central party supports the proposal that lies here, on a State guarantee and on State aid commitments, which has also been explained by the rapporteur. There is a very broad majority for this in the committee. We also see this event as an opportunity for Norway to host an Olympic event again, and there are many good reasons to support it. Firstly, it is a boost for youth, for the inland region and for Norwegian sport in general. We see that as a top sports event for children and young people, the youth Olympics fit very well with the profile we have in sports policy in Norway, with a focus on bets just on children and young people. It is clear that this event will also provide a great opportunity to focus more on it in Norwegian sport in general. Secondly, it is clear that such an event at Lillehammer will be involved in developing the Lillehammer region as a winter sports destination, and not least the opportunity we have to focus on post-use after the 1994 Olympic Games. So Norway will also have a lot left for this. It is clear that it will contribute to the motivation of those children and young people who are currently very engaged in sports and who spend a lot of their time on sports. Then several have been involved both in the construction of student housing and in the broad profile that this event should have. Otherwise, I agree with the assessments made by the government that it is necessary that the organisational committee, provided for the planning and implementation of the Youth Olympics, become a limited liability company in which the State can also be involved and take care of those interests. At the same time, it is important that this be done in such a way that the objective and interests of both the IOC and the NIF are the ones that govern, because this should be a matter for sport. Then it is important that the government participates and contributes positively to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1894	Young people's Olympics in 2016 are a spice team that participates in both the IOC, the Norwegian Sports Association, the municipalities of Oppland and Hedmark and the municipalities of Lillehammer, Hamar, Gjøvik and Øyer together with the state. Youth Olympics in 2016 will be a great opportunity for Norway to host an Olympic event again. The event can be an inspiration for both practitioners, trainers and sports leaders in Norway. It is also positive that the use of OLs from 1994 could be sensible. OL is something that sounds good to many of us. As the leader of the KrFU a few years ago, I strongly supported the Youth Olympics to Norway. At the time, I was strongly put in place by the journalist I tried to sell the case to. He thought it was the advertising press, that it was the economy it was all about, and that there was a lot of cynicism against youth. It might be a useful reminder that it shouldn't be the result of a youth Olympic, but I'll focus on the positive sides and rather encourage an actual working with what's positive with a youth Olympic. The International Olympic Committee has sought to establish a rapid clarification on matters relating to State guarantee. In this way, I would like to commend the Committee and, in particular, the rapporteur, Olemic Thommess, for a good consideration of the matter. And I see that, given the geographical relationship of the representative Thommessen, it may not be so surprising that he has shown some zeal for the matter. That's good. I also note that there are new and positive signals from the Progress Party, because although the Progress Party writes in its remarks that professional sport should not be the state's highest priority field of sport policy, the Progress Party recognizes that top and width are inseparably linked. Of course, it is quite correct, as the Progress Party writes in its comments, that one cannot close his eyes because performance at the top level means a lot to the general recruitment – of course, many might say. But that the Progress Party now emphasizes the importance of betting on both width and top, is good, and it promises well! I hope that this can also apply to the other cultural policies of the Progress Party. We get no stars without an active and good grassroots movement, and the stars – the top – are absolutely necessary to ensure recruitment, absolutely necessary to create broad enthusiasm and inspiration, and then the state has to take an active role to facilitate this. I agree with Sport President Børre Rognlien, who says in a press release that the decision on grants and state guarantees ‘is a very important milestone in the work of achieving the Inland Youth Olympics in Norway’. Now everything is at the ready for a great event at Lillehammer in 2016. It's just to wish happiness!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1913	In this room we have great ability to have long debates, sails on matters that we agree on. It's especially when it's about locating, and then it's nice that some of us have got input from the counties we don't represent, to represent the width. As the Oslo representative, I would also like to say that we in the Left support the proposal presented here today. And to say what it is that we've also locally stressed strongly about being able to carry out such an event, it's focusing on not just a big sporting event, but it's also a cultural event, and it's an education or education event. The cooperation with the College in Lillehammer and the Nansen School, which is planned around this, seems to us to be helping to make this a much more exciting event than a normal sporting event. I think Lillehammer as a cultural city, where you have a great deal of voluntary effort and a great deal of spirit of hard work, as they showed us the last time it was an Olympic there, has many opportunities to use the cultural life and all the creative practitioners who are there – giving room for a living cultural expression, even at such a sporting event. What is important for the Left is that there is also a strong local anchoring and a anchoring in the sport as regards the management of the event itself. Then I would also like to stress that Lillehammer-OL in its time had a completely new standard when it came to organising major sporting events – when it came to the environment. It was really one of the events that showed how we could create new environmental standards related to as large crowds as an Olympic is. I think it is important that Lillehammer Municipality and the event be able to continue the environmental exposure that existed around Lillehammer-OL, that an environmental dimension also be attached to this event, which allows you to show that you can make big people parties, but still have a good environmental profile at the event. I think the local organizers are very concerned about that. So I hope that as a state we give them the opportunity to develop it in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1927	It's a pleasure to take part in the debate here today, because it's a unanimous big deal that, as I can see, will decide that we are providing support for a state grant and a state guarantee in the case of the Youth Olympics at Lillehammer in 2016. I think it's more than the representative Olemic Thommess and I who can be happy to announce to the IOC that a unanimous magnification wants to support such an event. Youth Olympics is a top sport event for the age range 14–18 years. It competes in the same sports and branches as in an ordinary Olympic, but there are fewer exercises and participants. In addition, there is also a sports event that has its own cultural and educational programmes, which many people here have been involved in. The first games for youth were organised in Singapore in 2010, and the first Winter Youth Olympics will be held in Innsbruck, Austria in January 2012. As a result, the games at Lillehammer become the second youth Olympic in winter. There are several reasons why the government has wanted to comply with both the Sports Association and the Lillehammer Municipality’s application for state guarantees and grants to the Youth Olympics. Firstly, we believe that this event facilitates a youth commitment in sport, the aim of which is to reduce the drop-out and make young people physically active longer. Through support for youth OL, we contribute to increased focus on training and physical activity among children and young people in the coming years. We will also support this event because we believe it helps to support the investment in winter sports under the Inland Region. Many of our leading top athletes live in Lillehammer today, and there is good competence and a good training environment. Looking at job developments in Norway, we see that domestic growth is not as high as in the rest of Norway. Sport is an absolute potential for growth in the inland region, where there is a high level of competence. We want to support these environments. So the government's going to cut down at least 6 million. kr of the budget reserve for the Legacy programme and contribute to Lillehammer remaining an international arena for youth sport, even after 2016. Youth Olympics will also help to strengthen the post-use of existing facilities. So this event also has the perspective of connecting to a new generation of volunteers. We are totally dependent on those who volunteer for sport, and we believe that this event can contribute to the development of a new generation of volunteers. In addition, we are satisfied with the application, in the sense that it contributes to 360 new student homes at Lillehammer. The IOC provides an extraordinary grant for this purpose, and we think it is very good. Thus, youth OL contributes in several ways in the Lillehammer region. Let it be clear that the government's intention is to contribute to the good implementation of the Youth Olympics at Lillehammer. We will do so by supporting the event and also by ensuring the proper use of the State grant and safeguarding the State guarantee. It is possible to ensure the necessary management of the State grant through the management tools such as: The financial regulations of the State provide. However, in order to ensure that the State guarantee is adequately guaranteed, other mechanisms must also be put into effect. In reality, this is an unlimited financial guarantee. This means that the Youth Olympics are actually given a blank authorisation for the use of money. That is why we want to have a good control over how this money is used, and therefore we want a government holding and a board representation of 50 pst. What is important to me in this matter is that this is in line with the recommendations we get from the external quality insurer. There should be reasonably good arguments on the basis that I would recommend Stortingen to deviate from the recommendations made by the quality insurer. It is also the case that, as a government, one can be held accountable to Stortinget if the obligations relating to financial viability are not met in this project. In order for the government to be fully aware that it is responsible for this event financially, we want this ownership model. That doesn't mean, of course, that we're going to go in and regulate what kind of sporting events are going to take place at Lillehammer. It was not at all such under Lillehammer-OL that the Minister of Culture at the time went in and detailed the opening event, or that Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland went in and dictated the rules on how the bobban was to be designed. Rather, on the contrary, this was a good form of governance, which ensured that sport had control and power over what was important for sport, but where the state fully guaranteed and contributed to the good financial management of the project. That's why we've chosen the same model here. We believe that it helps to facilitate the autonomy of sport, but that the government is responsible to the Stortinget for the use of money. If something goes wrong with the financial management of this project, there should be no doubt about who is responsible. But this is a small matter, where there has been some disagreement between the opposition and the government. Otherwise, we stand together in this matter, and I am very, very pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1950	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1953	It was a very promising post from the Council of State. We've had a little disagreement about this with ownership. I don't intend to make it a big deal or invite to some polemics around it, but there's an important point attached to it. An important reason why the other parties were to be part of and own was the incentive that lay there. That's exactly the incentive to get to some of the things that the Council of State had to do, and that the representative Aksel Hagen was in. I think that when you choose the solution you do – we take it into account – it is important to keep in touch with some of the actors who are just representing the interests around this, in order to build wider alliances and strengthen the incentives for a forward-looking effort. Then we're talking about Nansenschool, we're talking about college, and then we're talking about the municipality. I'd like the Council of State to reflect a little bit on that – if she's been thinking about whether the ministry will play an active role in that ownership, towards this broad alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1962	If the representative wants a response from me on how we might use a larger part of the profit if it is 6 million. kr, I would like to know a little bit more specifically about the plans that the Lillehammer region has. This is currently at the planning stage. It may be that there is a basis for strengthening the activity beyond the 6 million. kr that is set off here, but I want us to come back to that when we see more concretely what it is about. There are absolutely good plans here for how to further develop the Lillehammer region in the time to come. In terms of involvement in what is to be the responsibility of sport, I am absolutely sure that the representative Olemic Thommess has a significantly greater basis for involvement in opening ceremony and other things than that of the Council of State in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1969	It could have been nice to be at the opening ceremony – so I sent that message. As the Council of State was in, there is broad consensus in this room. An event of this kind means a lot to that region and to Lillehammer. Here you have good skills, you have good facilities, and you ensure a good use of them. But now it's like sportsmen tend to show up all over the country, and as I also said in my post, the plant situation is precarious all around the country. As this region has been given an extraordinary boost, the question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do for the rest of the country in terms of child, youth and youth?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1978	If the representative wishes to participate in the opening ceremony during the Youth Olympics, there may be a possibility that in 2016, the representative Korsberg actually enters an polar bear, not as the last time – Sissel Kyrkjebø. This may be an opportunity to attend the event. With regard to the situation of children and youth in general, the Stortinget is given ample opportunity to discuss it in connection with the presentation of a sports report during the winter. We will then make a number of proposals for action on how to strengthen child sport throughout Norway. We know that Norwegian children's and youth's rights have a greater grasp of members than ever. 85 pst. children and young people are involved in a sport. We need sports even more than before, because we have a much more sedentary everyday life. But in many places there is pressure on the facilities, and there are a kind of issues that we will discuss in this sports message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1985	The change of reply is over – since the representative of Korsberg did not feel the need to comment on the shy offer from the Council of State to participate in the opening ceremony.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e1988	It's almost 18 years since Norway arranged the Winter Olympics at Lillehammer. This was an event that was much discussed, among other things. the value in value of it, before it was decided that Norway should receive it. Great economic expenditure was ahead of us, and also very many challenges at many levels. When the opening ceremony was there, and everything was all right, it was probably not many Northmen, including volunteers and sportsmen, who were not very proud. Yes, the whole of Norway was proud, and we felt like a family whether we were in the sofa in the living room in front of the TV, in the workplace or were the audience. The games went their way, and later on, even more good athletes have been brought up. But not only that, the breadth has grown, and many more are trying. It's all about getting people, including young people, involved in something positive for body and soul, investing in themselves, getting away from the PC, or the TV – whatever it might be – and trying something new in a positive way. The advancement party is of the opinion that a sports event, whether it is a circuit championship or a giant Olympic, will give much back, regardless of age, sex, residence, profession, social status, etc. An OL, like the OL in 1994, will also be able to provide a range of investments to the community that it would otherwise not have been able to afford. Sports halls, arenas, infrastructure, workplaces etc. will be able to grow. At the same time, the party sees the relationship across everything and everyone who gives the sport. Fortunately, many of us have the quality of clapping and cheering almost as much on the one who comes last in goal – but who have completed something that you would not initially believe he or she had the prerequisites to succeed – as on the one who won the entire championship. When you meet in a serious sports game, the goal is, of course, to win, but the joy of being able to participate is also a victory – a victory for everyone to try, either to win a single diploma to hang on the wall of the girl or boy room or a large gold medal, with what it may result from a changed life later on. That is why the Progress Party believes that both top sports and sport should be put into action. Both parts depend on each other to be good. The top talents don't grow well if the apparatus isn't there, and we don't get width unless the good ones get the best. That's why mass sport depends on us giving the best chance of getting the best, but at the same time it has to be width to grow up from. In addition, the Progress Party believes that investing in a broad range of activities means that many young people get interests, including healthy interests, that they may not have otherwise in life. Today's society has so much to tempt with, from simple, positive things to what's very advanced and perhaps just interesting for a little bit of youth. That's the way it is, and that's the way it should be. But society also has many temptations that are not good, and when the offer, or perhaps the desire to use the offers, is not there, we have a problem. We need to take this seriously and help unload youth — and adults — into a more sensible track. This is where sport can contribute in a very positive way. Sports and social cohesion will always be there as a positive thing in one’s life – a companionship that can be difficult to create in other arenas. That's why I want to mark this as a joyous day, as it's said yes to an event where youth and sportsmen become part of the positive that happens across national borders, where it's estimated that more than 1,000 active practitioners will participate, where over 70 nations will participate, and how many volunteers will give of themselves for something they believe in. The fact that Lillehammer is elected is also positive. Then we get rusted up what should be rusted up after the OL in 1994, and we are then stronger to apply for a new OL when it might be desirable. Finally, I wish everyone the best of luck with the 2016 Olympic Winter Games for Youth at Lillehammer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2011	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good report. But I am also, like the representative Aksel Hagen, a little uncertain about what this event really is – but as he is, of course, I go for the setting. I also think that Norway is the organizer of major sporting events, and also of a youth Olympic in 2016. I think that by saying yes to this event we have a little better cards on hand if we are going to apply for a winter Olympics at a later date. There is a lot of positive that is anchored in the event. As many have mentioned from the pulpit here – I will not repeat it – all sides of the event, including outside sports, are incredibly positive, and I hope that there will be a lot of focus during the event. But I want to focus on something. It's not just hurrah from my side, there are also some concerns that I want to point out in my post. In particular, the IOC requires applicants to meet the same types of requirements and guarantees as applicants for an ordinary OL, and that it is the State that has to guarantee this – through the case we are dealing with today. When the IOC imposes a gross financial guarantee, it is worth considering what this entails. It is an unlimited guarantee from the State for all costs that could be incurred in the planning and implementation of a youth OL. Such a guarantee also includes all investments necessary to implement the arrangement. In addition, the IOC requires guarantees of a non-economic nature. Should I object to this arrangement, it is that the IOC makes such demands that can be perceived as an ultimatum. The risk is all others except the IOCs. It is possible that I have misunderstood, but that is how I perceive the guarantee amounts and what is involved in a gross financial guarantee. The council said from the pulpit that she would follow the event carefully through a harsh economic governance. I'm sure of that. Perhaps some of the guarantees you are offered will not be met. But at least I think this is worth putting my finger on. Other things I would like to make in my speech are that the Youth Olympics are a top sport event for young people aged 14-18 years, with a goal that will help to strengthen the overall sport effort against children and young people. In my view, it is positive that through such an event, one helps to facilitate a youth lift in sport. In addition, if the objective of reducing the dropout rate and making young people physically active longer, it is also a major societal gain in itself. Many ask questions about a top sports event for practitioners up to 14 years of age is correct. So do I and more with myself. In the case documents we read that both the Ministry of Culture and the NIF are conscious of this issue. That's good. But the reason for my scepticism is that the lower age limit at any event at Lillehammer is 14 years old. That means that everyone who has ambitions to participate has to start a peak of their sport already as twelve-year-olds, maybe even earlier. Is that what we want? Therefore, it is very good that both government and NIF have the ambition to raise the lower age limit for participation in youth OL in the long term, and should in the long term be as soon as possible. I hope that the IOC takes this request seriously, and that the participants at the next crossroads are in a slightly different age group than what is being added to this event. If we succeed in that, it will also be easier to defend the use of money at such an event. I want to end by wanting everyone to be happy, and I hope that the event will be as the ambitions are, that this will be positive not only for the region, but also for us representing other parts of the country. I think it's an important point to realize that this is going to benefit the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2034	Lillehammer shall again be given the opportunity to organise a major sporting event. The last one was in 1994 when the OL was arranged. Lillehammer was able to do that with glory. It was just supposed to be missing! Lillehammer is in Uppland, and aliens can do exactly what they want. We're impulsive just to think a little bit about! That's what I think we're good at getting big things -- we think about it. Lillehammer has proven that they're good at arranging the Olympics. They're good at getting big events, not just the Olympics. What was asked about Lillehammer-OL was the use of the facilities. Many facilities at Lillehammer were sentenced north and down, while others had slightly greater hopes. Now there are, among other things: ski facilities and jumpers have proven their existence, while e.g. Akebaks and bobbacs, which were sentenced to the north and down at the beginning, have also proved to be good for tourism in recent years. Now it's that the effect of an OL lasts for a certain time, and then it dabs off. So has also partly happened to Lillehammer, in terms of both the sporting effect and the after-use. Such an OL that is now to be arranged, where there are young people who are going to participate, I think I can join in doing a lot of positive for sport. The most important thing for the Progress Party in sport is the universality, taking care of children and young people, so that they have a positive relationship with sport. When such an event can be arranged in Lillehammer and Norway, I think it will help to create an interest in broadband. The participants in such an event are the top youth, the top athletes among young people. However, many young people are inspired by what they can do. That Norwegian athletes are able to win gold medals, can win medals, can be good on skis, can be good in hope, also inspires other youths to participate in sports. Upland has brought up many good sportsmen through the ages – the sibling couple Berger, not long since Inger Helene Nybräten and, not least, Roger Ruud, who in the 1980s lived both in the bouncy hill and in the city. These have proved to be good ambassadors for Norway, and they have contributed to the lifting of both jumping and skiing after major events. The Progress Party is in favour of events that take care of young people. But what we're worried about is that the breadth is suffering because we donate a lot of money to such a big event. That is what sport itself is concerned about, and that sport is concerned about. If we go in with a guarantee for such a big event, the community, the usual sportsman who runs on a hobby-based basis around Norway’s country, will be harmed. I hope not. I hope that magnification and government are aware of this problem, so that not the big league, the common kids who participate in sports because they think it's fun and really don't have ambitions to be so good, but have ambitions to do sports because they think it's fun, are going to get hurt by reducing their chances of getting sports venues that are good to run on. The party's prayer for both big business and government: please think about the big business! Don't let that one suffer from this! Otherwise, I think this is going to be a giant event, an event that Norway can be proud of, and Lillehammer and Oppland will again be proud organizers of a battle event.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2053	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2069	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2078	The Committee has examined this matter from the representatives of Korsberg, Horne and Thomsen on a new distribution of the tickicides. The proposal involves a distribution of 64 pst. to go for sport, 18 pst. for cultural purposes and 18 pst. to social or humanitarian organisations. Today's distribution means that the sport has 45,5 pst., 36,5 pst. goes for cultural purposes and 18 pst. to the socio-economic organisations. A large majority believe that a change to the key should not be made through a representative proposal in the Stortinget. The government has announced that there will be a sports message, and it will be natural that any changes to the key will be discussed in that case. Then you will have a more thorough discussion about the device and its consequences. It is also important to see possible increased support for sport as a whole. These include: on criteria for the award of games to sports facilities and very many other issues relevant to discussing the distribution of tipping devices. Then I register that the Progress Party has a lot of urgency in the matter, but I cannot see that there is something that is so urgent. Out of respect for those involved, one should have a quite thorough and proper process. The Progress Party is also afraid that the sport will not be heard, but when we deal with the Sports Communication, it will receive a regular treatment in Stortinget, with the opportunity to discuss with the parties involved and also between us representatives here in Stortinget. When the sports message comes – when the government makes its proposal – this proposal from the Progress Party is very well prepared for what they think about the distribution of the money from Norwegian Typing, even though they are not so concerned about keeping Norwegian Typing in itself. The sport has signaled that there is a need for more money on the site, and there are a lot of people waiting in line. We in the Center Party are concerned that the sport will get more money and more opportunities. The centre party understands that many people are frustrated when they have been waiting for many years, and we look forward to a debate on the sports communication that addresses a whole set of Norwegian sports policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2091	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for the job that has been done. It is with great pleasure that I record that it is a tremendous willingness to change the key. It is recorded when the political parties meet with sport, with organisations, in the media and at national meetings. But when you get in this room, you don't want to change the key. So you want to change the key no matter where you are around in the Kingdom, but when you're here – inside this room where you decide – you won't change the key. And then you have a little bit of different motives to think you shouldn't change the key. The right-hand side writes in its comments that you want a broader investigation than a representative proposal. Then I have to ask myself: why does the Right now and then promote the proposal for a representative? That's our way of practicing politics. If the Right believes that this is too poorly investigated – for more than half a year, the Right has intended to change the key, as long as the Workers' Party, which decided at its national meeting to change the key – then the Right has had plenty of time to do the preparations you think should have been made, but they have not done so. The Christian People's Party is passive and waiting for the announced sports message to come from the government. Had it been a handball game, the Christian People's Party had been interrupted in attack for playing passively. It must be possible to have a slightly more optimistic and forward-looking attitude than is the case. The reason for this change is, of course, the enormous delays in the use of facilities throughout Norway, and the alarming need for sport has more resources. So you've changed the key many times before – that's not the same thing as sending someone to the moon. There have been several changes to the key in this room, so I think you have a good basis and know what this is about. What is now achieved is that you lose valuable time, which leads to a greater lag, and sports get worse framework conditions. So I noticed that the majority in the caste – all parties except the Advance Party – say: ‘It would be natural to deal with any changes to the key in the context of that alert.’; In other words, you don't say that you have to change, but you want to evaluate it. So once again, you create uncertainty if you really want to change the key in this room, or if you just want to do it when you're in the forums where it's right to do it, when you meet sports, when you meet organizations and when you meet the media. So I think the other parties are doing a little bit of double communication, and the loser is sports in that way. It has been quite interesting to read from the National Labour Party meeting and not least the Right – and, to the extent, the Centre Party – has sent out press releases after the Workers' Party has dealt with this at its national meeting. There are listed arguments for arguments to change the key, how important it is to get it done, and not least how important it is to get it done quickly. But when you get here, obviously that kind of argument doesn't apply anymore. I have to say I am quite sad that you want to spend even more time changing the key. It should have been quite possible to have a much more active and offensive attitude in this way. I note that the Progress Party is the only party that is in charge of sport in this Chamber. The other parties don't. On that basis, on behalf of the Progress Party and Norwegian, I am promoting the two proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2118	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2121	There are many installations waiting for funding. In addition, after each significant maintenance and not least upgrade of installations used in international championships will also occur. The right considers it important that sport throughout the country has satisfactory facilities, and we have long seen the need to significantly strengthen the construction process. For example, we proposed 600 million. additional appropriations for the State budget in the context of the crisis package in the event of the previous financial crisis. The right believes that today's model, where state contributions to sport are linked to the income from Norwegian Typing, is good. It underpins the free position of sport and provides room for the current governance of sport. In the light of this, we have given clear signals of a change in line with the distribution key proposed by the sport itself, namely that the means that currently flow to cultural purposes through the state budget are compensated for and go to the development of sports facilities. This is a major change, which in reality means a significant count over the state budget, because the cultural share of the key has to be compensated. The right considers it necessary to investigate this matter in more detail. I understand that the representative of Korsberg is quite sad, as the representative of Korsberg himself expressed it, to say, among other things. The right cannot support a change in the key when dealing with this matter. The right would have liked to do that, but we've been waiting for the sports message since we went out with our proposal for a change. The right looks forward to the treatment of the sports message, and we have in good faith gone and waited for it to come in the harvest. The sports themselves also look forward to the sports report, because they want some clarification, and the sports themselves also believed that the sports report would come in the fall. Now we know that it comes to the Stortinget early in the spring, and I'm not sure at all that it will be treated in Stortinget before the summer. I think that's a pity, because I think it's important that we clarify some of the things especially related to the distribution of the key. To the right, it is quite natural that we make such a decision and make such major changes in the handling of the sports notification. I hope the Minister of Culture will deliver the sports message to the Stortinget during the spring. Then we will also deal with the changes in the key. It looks right forward to it. Otherwise, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a very thorough and good work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2136	Recently, many different models have been discussed regarding the key. Different actors have their agendas and there are different considerations to balance between the different interests. Of the profits for Norwegian Tipping today are 45.5 pst. for sport, 18 pst. to humanitarian organisations and 36.5 pst. to culture, but of the 36,5 percent, it's just 12,2 pst. which goes directly for cultural purposes – the cultural school, cultural building and the Free Fund. The rest goes as income to the treasury. Today it accounts for approx. 930 million. kr. Then this money comes back to the culture embedded in the allocation of the state budget. It is important that we find good solutions that do not weaken the total commitment to culture. For example, it would make sense to gradually convert more of the appropriations made available to the State budget into the Free Fund, the school bag and cultural buildings. That is also one of the reasons why the Christian People's Party among others. increases the allocation of Freefonds in our soon-to-be-present alternative budget. The solution adopted by the National Labour Party and reflected in this proposal for a representative is, first of all, a strong recognition of the importance of sport by the fact that more of the profits of Norsk Tipping will go to sport. Secondly, such a model could improve the predictability of culture and, in particular, could mean a more tidy allocation structure. The Christian People's Party is therefore not rejecting changes in the key. To the representative of Korsberg, who saw the process of mass destruction as a handball struggle and suggested that the Christian People's Party would be called off for passive play, I just want to say that we had not been blown off, for the judge had not been present – the fight is not going on, the fight is hopefully coming to spring. We believe it is important to strengthen the context of sport. In particular, it is important to reduce the delays in transfers to sports facilities. Any changes to the key must be seen in the light of just that. And for the Christian People's Party, it's a perfectly sunny premise, and a requirement, that the cultural sector in total does not lose on any change. That's why we have to see the whole thing of this. That is why we will come back to the case when we are going to handle the sports report from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2149	I don't think the representative Korsberg is sad. Nor do I believe that the representative of Korsberg is surprised. I think the representative of Korsberg would have been more surprised if the Stortinget had made such a decision today. Because, as the representative Roppstad gets there, there's a whole here that's going to work when we're making any changes. Is there anything the debate so far has shown, a debate that I believe all the political parties have taken part in – and one has come, for the time being, with slightly different solutions – that in order to arrive at a new overall good package, a serious foundation work is needed. As far as I'm concerned, all political parties are pleased that the government has just realized that it is a wish both in sport, in cultural life and in the political environment to have a good debate about this. We get that by getting the message, which is the basis for our debate. So, of course, it's so that it's in this room that this decision is to be made. But fortunately, in this Chamber most political parties want the decisions we are making to be based on a good decision-making basis, and we will have that in a moment. Then we will also be able to have the good debate and finally the good decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2154	The representative of Korsberg claims to speak on behalf of the sport. It is relatively surprising given that Norwegian gambling policy will be completely changed with the policy of the Progress Party. Then it doesn't help much to change the key, then there is no money to distribute. It will be a disaster for Norwegian sport. Nor is it the case that the Labour Party or others have been around the country and the beach talking about changes in the key – just not here. If the Advance Party had taken the trouble to read the Workers' Party's national meeting decision, it says that we want to change the key during the treatment of the sports message. Then the representative will come back to me and the rest of the government and complain if we do not do what we have suggested in the message that we will do. We get the discussion then, that's the neatest way. I have been in this Chamber many times and have received criticism that we are promoting matters in the revised national budget, that we do not have an adequate procedure. Well, well, now we say that we want to get back to this matter during the treatment of the sports report. There we'll have the opportunity to discuss what we're going to apply any changes to. The representative of Korsberg and others have been involved in the grassroots field, so that children and young people across the country can take part in sports activities. It is precisely the kind of question that needs to be discussed when we also discuss changes in the key. To me, it seems more like a good old trick to bring forward proposals adopted by the National Labour Party meeting – not on behalf of sport. At the first management meeting I attended in the Norwegian Sports Association, the sport came with one claim for me, and it was changing the key so that the sport got 60 pst. The working party adopted a change to the key so that the sport would receive 64 pst. It must be said to be a far better proposal for sport than the sport itself had proposed. So this is what we're going to get back to when we're dealing with the sports message, which we've said we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2161	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2164	Let me just start by completely rejecting the accusations made by the Council of State regarding our alternative state budget and the effect it has on Norwegian sport. We've really been calling for both non-governmental organisations and sport, and we want to support them with funds. But that's really not what I'm going to challenge the state council. When you read the settings from the government parties and to some extent also the other parties, I would say that there are doubts about changing the key. Then is my question to the Council of State: does the Council of State, in connection with the Sports Communication, come to propose to change the key in line with the Workers' Party's National Meeting Decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2172	You will receive an answer when the sports message comes, so you will receive an answer to all other questions in the message that the government is submitting to the Stortinget. So what comes in the individual message, I will present when the message is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2177	I really have to say that I am starting to get really tired of the arrogant attitude of the Minister of Culture on this platform in terms of proposals from the Progress Party. Who are you who can begin to claim that the proposals of the Progress Party are trickling, and that we do not promote this proposal on behalf of sport? You don't have any -- none at all -- assumptions to express yourself about that. The Progress Party is fully entitled to promote any proposal in this Chamber and to be taken seriously for the proposals we make. When the Council of State stands on this platform and claims that the Progress Party is failing sport, that we do not have a policy for sport, and that it will be a disaster if the Progress Party comes into government, then I would recommend the jam to you to read the budget of the Progress Party, where we are betting on volunteering and VAT compensation as important issues for Norwegian sport. I would like to ask the Council of State: what does the Council of State think will be ruined in sport with the policies of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2182	The President will recall that the statements of the representatives shall be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2185	The game policy of the Progress Party will frustrate Norwegian sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2190	I'm sorry I didn't contact the president, but I'm going to do it now. When the Council of State can answer that the game policy of the Advance Party will frustrate sport, there is little knowledge of it. What the government's budget this year shows is that there's going to be less money for Norwegian Tipping because people are typing less, and there's also less money for sports. Allowing other foreign gaming companies who have said that they will also give part of the profits to the sport does not mean that the sport will be shattered. I would like to repeat my question: is there any other matter in the policy of the Progress Party the Council of State believes will rage Norwegian sports?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2201	It is mainly Norwegian gambling policy, but also the fact that the Progress Party was against the grassroots proportion. It would not frustrate Norwegian sports policy, but it is a proposal that would lead to a significant weakening of many local sports. Then I would also like to say that as a member of the government I do not speak on behalf of sports or Norwegian patients or Norwegian cultural life. I think politicians in general should be careful to talk on behalf of groups that you claim to represent. That's why I don't want to talk on behalf of the sport. I also do not think the Progress Party in this Chamber has reason to speak on behalf of sport. Let the sport talk on behalf of itself, then the representative gets Horne and I talk on behalf of our respective parties. There will be a neat way of conducting a political discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2208	So the line change is over. The President will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory time of the morning meeting is late, but suggests that we complete this matter before the meeting is interrupted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2215	The debate is probably far from over, but when the Council of State makes such claims submitted by this pulpit, I feel the need to take the floor. When the Council of State mentions that the game policy of the Advance Party will frustrate sport, it is completely wrong. We want a conversion, that foreign gambling companies will have the opportunity to establish themselves in Norway with a licensing system, and where parts of the turnover will be attributed to Norwegian sport in the same way as Norsk Typing. That's what the government says no. This would have meant that there would be more money for sport in Norway. For between 5 and 10 billion. So kr is sent out of the country. These funds would then remain in the country, and it would generate more income for sport. The Council of State says that the policy of the Progress Party would have ruined sport. Then again, I would like to ask the Council of State to be specific: what are the proposals that are raging sport? When the Council of State makes such claims, it must also be possible for the Council of State to be specific and to tell what types of proposals the Progress Party has made that are raging Norwegian sport. The Council of State refers to many other proposals. Come up to this pulpit, my Council of State, and tell us what proposals the Progress Party has made, which are raging Norwegian sport. I believe that in this Chamber, the Council of State should be able to adhere to a sound and fair playing principle in the field of sport and not make undocumented claims on the policy of the Progress Party. I think this is a way to argue that brings down such a kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2226	I want to repeat my answer from now on: the game policy of the Advance Party will drive Norwegian sport, bring money out of the country, give gambling money to private players and give less money to sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2231	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox We have passed the regulatory time of the morning meeting. [[See page 413]] The meeting will be set again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16.05. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2248	The size continues the handling of the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2262	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2271	We will now consider the position of the Transport and Communications Committee on amendments to the Road Traffic Act of 18 June 1965 No. 4, on extended access to directives on road safety measures etc. The government proposes changes to the Road Traffic Act § 40a. The proposal extends the current access of the Ministry to oblige the counties and municipalities of Oslo to develop and implement road safety measures in the field of road traffic. At the same time, a new basis is proposed for the Ministry to be able to oblige municipalities to develop and implement various road safety measures in the field of school skyscrapers. The proposed amendments to Section 40a will include, inter alia: provide the ministry with the authority to require the counties and municipalities to ensure that skyscrapers are provided with seatbelts at school kissing on a bus. A unanimous committee calls for the amendment of the law. The Progress Party also has its own proposal, which I believe they themselves will promote and explain. For us, road safety is the main basis for transport policy. Making sure that we can all travel safely and safely is important. Safe transport of our kids to and from school is a legitimate, important and proper requirement. It is a paradox that there are strict rules for securing children in cars, but that in school busses it has been free for a long time. There have been standing places in buses and buses without seat belts for a long time. But, fortunately, there are great improvements around the country. Several municipalities have been nice in this area and understood that they must actually take responsibility for what kind of noise they offer to school students. As far as I have an overview of it, there are now only three county councils that do not have the right to a seat. It's Akershus, Buskerud and East Agder. East-Agder introduces requirements for seating from 2013, Buskerud is required for seating where the speed exceeds 60 km/h, while Akershus is required to sit on trips exceeding 20 minutes and on motorways. So far, only one county municipality is entitled to seat belts, namely Nord-Trøndelag. But we know that several county councils have submitted this as a requirement in tenders that are due in a relatively short time. So some county councils are doing this job well, but I have to admit that I think many county councils are also incredibly slow. There should have been no need for a state order in such an important matter, which is about the safety of our kids. The county municipalities should have done this on their own cold a long time ago. The two years I've been on the Storting, there's been a cross-political agreement that this is an important matter, and I'll take the opportunity to praise the other parties, perhaps especially the Progress Party, for their commitment. They have helped to keep up the pressure, through, among other things. Draft representative, last document 8:65 S for 2009-2010. So now, when we adopt this amendment, it's the ministry, by regulation, that's going to oblige the county councils to impose requirements on seating and seat belts for skyscraper students. It is also this regulation that sets a time limit within which this requirement is to be introduced. We are aware that the Ministry of Transport has sent a proposal to the hearing, and that it has not been concluded what will be the final regulation. I would like to signal from the Labour Party that we do not have a good time in this matter, and we believe that this must be done as quickly as possible. All schoolchildren must have the same safety on the school bus as schoolchildren do in the North Trøndelag. We have also received wishes from, among others. The Automobiles’ Association that there must be a requirement for alcohol locks also in the school buses. This is to make sure that the bus drivers are not running in a sleep-impact mode. This is a proposal for which we have great sympathy, but we believe that it is only now that seats and seats are the most important. However, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the amendment of the law now facilitates the inclusion of this as a requirement in the future revision of the regulation. And then here I want to show you what's going on in the North Throne Team. In fact, the new County Council will implement a pilot scheme with alcolocks in school buses. We will follow this attempt with interest. But the most important thing today is that we adopt the amendment of the law and remove an important obstacle from imposing on the county councils to provide seating and seat belts for all skyscrapered schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2299	Actually, I'm really happy today. But it has taken eight years for us here in this room to get to where we are now – that we finally get a decision saying that the department is authorised to follow up and make sure that all children in Norway get a safe and safe school bus situation between school and home. So it's taken eight years. That's exactly why I'm also a little tired today, because that means that for three years there are still many primary school students who have to stand on the bus and risk having neither seat nor seatbelts during transportation between school and home. It's about security, and it's about the safety of some of what I think is the best thing we have, both in this room and everyone else out there, namely our kids -- that they're going to have a safe and safe school transport. For me, it's not that dangerous, because my kids don't have to take a bus. But I expect those who have to take a bus to have exactly the same opportunity as my children to a safe and good school path. They can go or be driven to school instead of having to sit, or stand, on an insecure school bus. I find it strange that none of the other batches in this room – at least not in the setting – have been willing to agree to say that they want to introduce this as quickly as possible, to have a deadline that it must be in place before 1 January 2013. At least that would mean that we were offensive. What all the other parties are now in favour of is exactly what the industry itself says, that during the school year 2015/2016 the industry itself has fixed this, because then all these buses are replaced, and all new buses after 1998 which are not typical city buses are required to seat belts. Then I think it's a little offensive. I hear what the Workers' Party says, and I am happy to hear what the representative Bratli says, but I believe that it does not only help to say that we will hurry to do this as soon as we can, because today we have the opportunity to say that all children should have safe and good transport by seating and seatbelts in a little over a year in time. I find it sad that this discussion is about who is responsible for not doing so. In fact, this room is responsible for taking the necessary decisions to ensure that county councils receive the necessary appropriations, so that all children are given the safe and secure school transport that everyone here agrees to have. But then I find it sad that many have to wait three more years. I'm actually a little worried, because what we see now is that some county municipalities, when they get new tenders, choose city buses without any requirement for seat belts or seating. There are often fewer seats in city buses than there are in the traditional regular buses that many people use to and from school as a means of transport today. I think that is a concern that I really hope the Minister for Transport is also taking seriously, and perhaps also might say a little about it. Now, when we finally make the decisions we're making, and everyone thinks that now all children are going to get safe and secure school transportation, we suddenly end up with a lot of people still going to have to be on the school bus in the future, and not having seatbelts or seats, because you choose to get offers on buses that are exempt from the provisions. As I said, I'm very happy that we're finally getting so far that a decision is being made that allows the department to oblige the county councils to introduce this. I think it is a matter of having to do so, because when it comes to prioritising the county councils, priority is given to what is not required by law. Then priority is given to what is required by law, and then school bus transport is not a priority and demands for seat belts and seating are imposed. When we've been doing this for eight years – the last time we had this up – we were in the context of a representative proposal in 2009–2010, and the SINTEF report came in 2008 – the ministry has had a long time to take the consultations with county councils and others, so that it could actually ensure that all schoolchildren had safe and good transport from 1 January 2013. I would therefore like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party and hope that we can support this tonight, so that all children will receive safe and safe school transport by public transport from 1 January 2013. I challenge the Minister of Transport to join in on this, so that we get this implemented as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2318	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2321	The safety of our roads is part of what we're all concerned about, and if that's what we're particularly concerned about, it's the safety of our children. For those of us who have reached the age of soul and have grandchildren, the significance is at least the same. We know that a lot has been done in both municipalities and county municipalities to secure our schoolchildren. Some have already introduced mandatory measures, and something remains. That is why we are pleased that the government is now making a decree that this should be carried out throughout the country. The rapporteur has given a thorough account of both the background and the case. However, I would like to mention that a SINTEF report published in 2008 concluded that the risk of injury to standing passengers in a bus was six to seven times higher than for seated passengers. Likewise, there are many injuries that are prevented by the use of seat belts; it is also a reality. When this has not been fully recovered all over yet, it is because old buses that are on contract are becoming disproportionately expensive to replace, and also conversion in terms of seat belts in old buses is disproportionately expensive also. I became aware of this when, in my home country, in the Nord-Trøndelag, we gradually introduced this directive – first by the fact that it would be forbidden to stand in the middle, and then, from a certain date, that it would be seatbelts in all the school buses. It was related to the contract time, so you didn't have to wreck relatively new buses. We know that there are many of the buses that are still good as a means of transport, but that were difficult to get out of that traffic. Right-wing support for the whole-hearted government's proposal, but at the same time will point out that county councils should be given the opportunity to implement it, i.e. to give them a financial opportunity. When the right has not fallen on and supports the proposals of the Progress Party, it is precisely because it will be a disproportionately expensive operation as long as contracts are concluded in the county municipalities. The second is that we have not yet received a clear date from the ministry, because after the hearing it will now be processed. When the regulation comes out, we are hoped that a time will be set for the scheme to come into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2334	I'm glad that a bunch of stuff ends up about the red-green proposal in this area. It's very nice, and it's been working on it for a long time. All parties are now some that this is necessary. That's good. So there's a challenge to this with the time factor and what time this is going to happen. Then it's clear that there's a lot of possibilities here to see if it's possible to find solutions. The author of the Labour Party argued that one wanted this to happen as quickly as possible. Yeah, that's my starting point, too. So there's a question of whether it's possible to do it before, as it's been happening here, i.e. in 2013. Yeah, we can discuss that. We may be able to find solutions before that. Then I think we have to be very clear about what this is about, and actually prioritize safe schooling and safe bus transport for children. That means that we might have to ask the Minister of Finance for more money in the revised national budget if we're going to get it done before, or we're going to have to discuss this with the Minister of State and the Minister of Transport to find a solution. It's not impossible. It could happen. I think from the government's side, there's a tendency to go one more round on this. It is very good that some municipalities take responsibility and follow it up – while others do not. Then you can ask yourself why the other municipalities don't. Does it have something to do with the essence of the offer – which the right-hand side pushes on? The offer makes everything cheaper all the time. Only we get everything offered, everything is probably almost free. This is an illustration of just how this is going to be. As long as one does not have state-owned or state-owned bus companies, but has an offer practice, it leads to a search for equipment to get it as cheap as possible, as the right-hand side wants. Actually, this is an illustration of how a full-fledged right-wing policy and progress party is looking for solutions that cost at least money, but that go beyond users in some way. I didn't hear that there was anything going on about it from the Progress Party's side when a blow on the implementation date. So a little bit more humble approach to the whole problem, I think we're on fire from Stortinget's side. But as I said, I want you to find a faster solution to this. Waiting for three years is too long. Then we have to discuss how we can solve this together. But the Progress Party should like to suggest that the bus companies could take that burden, because that is in a way what is the starting point: bus companies that do not want to do this. If the county had controlled this itself, they could have ordered the company to do so without further delay, but the offer does not make it possible. Then we have to look for solutions to ensure that children and young people in Norway get a safe and secure bus transport to and from school. It is my intention to be involved and contribute – faster than the government is proposing today. But then we'll hear what the Minister of Transport says, if she thinks the Minister of Finance doesn't have the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2347	I am very happy that we have come there to find a solution to a topic that we have discussed for a very long time. For road safety, it is important, both too large and too small. There is a long focus on seating and seat belts on buses that have made several county municipalities find a solution to this problem. As the rapporteur quite rightly explained, there are three out of 19 county municipalities that have not solved the problem as of today. It shows that there is a focus on it in most county municipalities. As I said, the centre party is pleased that the necessary changes are proposed, so that we get the regulation in place that allows us to impose seat belts and seats on buses in the future. At the same time, I have to say that I am actually a little sorry that there are some county councils that have not found solutions to get this in place before, because that focus has been there for quite many years. I hope that the commitment shown by all the parties here in this room today, including in previous cases, is infecting our party communities into the county communities, so that you can see the need to find solutions quickly. I think it is a pity that you have to have instructions and regulations for something that should be of course, namely to secure our children in the transport to and from school, and that is why we want to give deserved credit to those who have actually solved the problem. We have heard examples of this today. There are many who could have been drawn out that, in fact, through flexible arrangements and discussions with the bus companies, they have found a solution to get this in place, regardless of the agreements they have, and most of the county councils have. There are three remaining pieces. We're all impatient after the last ones have to find solutions to get it in place, so that all the kids in this country benefit. We're going to help push that together, because it should be a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2360	I also want to join the rose that the case spokesperson gave to the Progress Party for their involvement in this particular road safety case. But I would like to add that I feel that there has been a joint committee, and especially the members of the government, who have been concerned about this issue and have helped to raise it. Among other things, I can quoting from what Freddy de Ruiter said in this room June 10th: ‘I shall be the first to admit that this has taken too long. We expect to find a solution quickly." Now we have been involved, as a joint committee, and pushing it forward, and I am pleased about that. But I don't agree that this is primarily an attack on the supply regime, because one will find very good opportunities to solve this within the present supply regime. There's a Christian People's Party with just SV in a note where we ‘shows that the focus on seating and seatbelts at school kiss has been a topical issue for a long time and is disappointed that many county municipalities have not taken responsibility and introduced this as a requirement in the conclusion of school kiss contracts.’ So, what our Christian People's Party's point of getting into this comment is to show that within the regime that the county councils have, they could have seen this as a requirement. Now, at least we're going to solve the issues in the long term, but it's not the supply regime itself that has been the challenge here. Here it has our will, among others. by the counties. I therefore found the comment that came to be quite in place, and it is good that SV and the Christian People's Party are united about him. But I'm putting my whole heart behind what's now coming. I also share what Lars Myraune said in his comment about the evaluations and diet-benefits in relation to the time aspect. Yes, I would have liked this faster, but now we've found, I think, a good security solution for our children, combined with what I think is totally reasonable from an economic perspective. Not so much is mentioned in the settings themselves, but there are also positive restrictions on the area of alcohol in relation to road safety, and not surprisingly, the Christian People's Party will end up positive about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2381	All schoolchildren, irrespective of the country in which they live, shall have the right to safe and secure travel to and from the school. The Skulesky scheme is a municipal responsibility, and the government has called on the county councils to implement security measures for schoolchildren in buses. Many county councils have made considerable efforts to strengthen road safety at the school shed, but there are still considerable differences between counties. There are two expressions left today. It's the word 'joy' and it's the word 'unbelievable' and I'm dividing both of them. I am very pleased that a co-consultant’s staging gives his support to the government’s proposal for a change to the Road Traffic Act § 40a. The changes in the law will allow the Ministry of Transport to adopt a regulation requiring county municipalities and municipalities to dimension the skyscraper supply to those with a skyscraper on the grounds that everyone has to have a seat and seatbelt attached. I also ask Stortinget to be aware that we take the municipalities into this. It's because we don't want any discussion about activities related to the school, for which the municipalities are responsible. They also need to be included in the same regulation. We have had a draft regulation out on the phone, and the hearing has shown broad support for legislative change. So a question is, are we going to cut through and drum through a regulation before we have the county councils with us? We see that there are now changes when new contracts are entered into, we see that there are more and more people who are aware of this, but we know that there are county councils that have concluded legal agreements that last a few years. That's why we've seen an end date. But let me underline: I don't just share the joy of being supported by a bill; I share the disapproval of having a regulation in place, which has just been underlined by several people here, as soon as possible. I'm going to promise you that I'll have a lot of pressure on this case, on the dialogue that's now going to have to be with the county councils. It has been a little difficult to obtain the real costs, which is actually the economic extra burden for each county. I think it's because someone sees that – actually – if they add this requirement to the offer – it doesn't mean so much costs. But I assume that when the home is signed today, there is also a much better starting point for a quick clarification. Then it is that for county councils who use in their contracts buses that are from 1999 or later, this is in place automatically. It's these other ones that hang out again. I just want to stress to the representative Hoksrud that I am not leaning on the industry to clean this up. Utolism is much greater than that. Finally, let me just say a few words about road safety. It is then that – yes, I see the seconds go, it is possible that I should rather hide it to a final round. But here are happy numbers for the time being when it applies to the number of injuries and killings in traffic. One is too much. But I would like to come back to developments in road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2400	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2404	At the risk of how to say things – the Council of State said something like that that all children, regardless of which country you live in, will get a safe and good school kiss – something like that. I agree with the Council of State and I am very pleased about that. The council also said that the matter had been consulted. Then my question becomes in relation to the proposals of the Progress Party: Is there anything other than the economy that makes it impossible to introduce this by 1 January 2013 at the latest?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2409	What's the big catch is the legal agreements that are concluded in several county municipalities. That's how the offer goes over a certain period, and that's what happens when we get an overview of those who have – what we're going to say – most of the years before they have to conclude a new agreement, that we somehow think we have to consider it. But the regulation has to be in place before that time – long before that time – because we can ensure that all new contracts that come forward require seating and belting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2414	The council said two things. The only thing was that she doesn't lean on the industry, and the other thing was that it's demanding to get the economic reality out of it. When we know that the government party together with the Christian People's Party has made such a clear remark with a challenge to the county councils, my question to the council is: Is the council willing to take that challenge into its meetings with the county councils that do not fully deliver on this? I am thinking, among other things. at the government's contact conference with the county councils, where I think this is a very good theme to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2419	I find first of all reason to say that there are enough people in the county councils who would like to see this put in place as soon as possible, so don't leave it hanging again. So this is a very good tip with the contact conference. The first time I took this up with several county councils at once, was in my meeting with the county councils' traffic security selection. I was so happy and relieved when I left that meeting, because then everyone would go home and get settled in their respective counties. After that, some of them have encountered economic barriers, but clearly some have also encountered legal issues that they could not deal with in two or three months. But quite clearly, we should keep this under pressure in our contact with the county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2424	I registered that the Council of State in its previous answer to my question answered that it is the tenders that are the problem and the challenge. So now, the last time we dealt with this case here, in 2009/2010, we had a hearing on just this, and then we asked the industry if it was a problem issue. Then they said, "Is there anyone who pays us, both we drive and make sure to have buses that meet the requirements that you set?" It's actually about the economy. That's why I'm a little surprised that both the Council of State and Langeland are hiding behind the tender regime, which has nothing to do with this. That's why I challenge the Council of States: isn't it the way the economy ultimately makes it impossible to put this in place before the proposal that's there now? Because, as I said, it's okay, because most of the buses that don't now have seat belts are replaced. I really hope that the Council of State can answer yes, and concretely and clearly so. Is it not the economy that is the reason why the Council of State will not follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2431	It is not that the Council of States does not want to. It's not like this is as simple as Hoksrud makes it. And it's not like the Council of State has been hiding behind the supply system either. In fact, there are some legal and some economic clarifications that need to be made here. It is such that the councils of state and the red-green and a mass mass – as I see it now – are pleased that we have now taken the first steps, the law secret is in place, and we are impatient to get a regulation in place. I don't think I'm going to spend a long time clearing up either the legal or the financial clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2436	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2441	Last autumn I read a report in Nordlys, which made a very strong impression on me. It was about a six-year-old girl in the municipality of Nordreisa in North Troms who, as a result of having had to lay down most of the branch schools, had got a school road where she had to take the school bus for almost three hours one way. One thing is that it's incredibly long for a little child, but what also made the impression, was that this trip was going on insecure, without a seat belt in the bus. Regularly, these types of headlines are presented in the media. This is not a unique example, and I would like to say that I fully agree with the case rapporteur, who has been very clear that the county councils have a responsibility for the school kiss and for securing kids who take the bus. There are many states that have failed in relation to this. Troms is one of the last states that has now been given a mandate to seat all students. It's the few counties that have a warrant for seat belts in all the school buses. I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, not only for the glittering case rapporteurship, but for having been a very important contributor to the fact that the Nord-Trøndelag has been – and is – a precursor to road safety, and perhaps especially in the case of young people in school buses. The case rapporteur has a past as County Council for Transport in Nord-Trøndelag. I feel that all the parties are impatient in this matter, not least the Workers' Party, and I am pleased that the Minister is now presenting this matter, which represents an important milestone. Then we'll get back to the introduction time of the regulation. With regard to the criticism from Hoksrud and the impatience and urgency, I would remind the representative that the Progress Party secured some budgets together with the Bondevik II government. If it was the economy it was about, the representative could take responsibility for this. I am pleased that a solid majority from the opposition also acknowledges the grip on the government and the Minister of Transport have now taken this matter. The school-sky system is a municipal responsibility. Unfortunately, we now see that we have to let the state oversee this responsibility, but it turns out that this is absolutely necessary, we have to make sure that we have the girlfriend we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2458	To the Bjørnface: It's like that in the last six years, too, the Progress Party has been chasing this case a number of times, and it's been with a red-green government. I believe that both those who are happy today and those who are happy and impatient have a good day, because at least we will move on. Then I am very much in agreement with the case rapporteur on behalf of the Advance Party – this should actually be a completely unnecessary matter. It should be unnecessary that we have to make a regulation to ensure schoolchildren on the bus, and it is strange that this matter has taken so long, and that it will still take some time, because we can't reach the goal completely, as it looks, with a government arrangement before the start of the school year 2015/2016. Now I was at least a little reassured by listening to the Council of State, which assures me that she also lends ear to the impatient. That's good. In the Progress Party, we have problems in seeing that there are so great practical and, in fact, economic problems associated with the full implementation of this measure before starting in 2015/2016, and I will again refer to what the industry itself says, that it can be resolved. There is probably not much investment/high cost here either, so this should be a good solution. So we're talking about a regulation that we're unfortunately going to have to put in place and that should be unnecessary. I stand with a different rule in my hand. It's a 28-page regulation on the transport of live animals. It came in 2001. It's actually that you can derive that there's better protection for the transport of live animals than what we actually experience with the girlfriend of what we own, to quote the previous speeches, namely our children, when they're going to have to take a bus to school. It is this way – without me going into these 28 pages – that from the requirement to ‘set up suitable partitions to provide support for animals during transport’, there is not a long way to seatbelts. It states that each carrier shall have a valid document of compliance for the carriage. There is not a long way to transport schoolchildren by bus, with seatbelts. Nevertheless, some people may have to wait until the beginning of the school year 2015/2016. It is at least unnecessary, and the call is for the Minister of Transport to lend both ears to the impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2471	It has been a great pleasure for me to attend this debate, for it has largely been about the importance of road safety. I have also participated in this debate in East-Agder County, but only money has been the subject of the debate. Langeland initially spoke in this debate that it is the right-hand tendering process that has led to this measure not being implemented, but I can very simply dement it. In East-Agder, the position has been made up of the same parties that make up the position on the Stortinget: the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party – and the Christian People's Party, which in previous elections chose to be red, but which has become blue again after this election. The position in Aust-Agder has not had a bus offer on offer, and they do not have a seat belt in their buses. They have concluded a fixed-price agreement with a company, and the requirement for a seat belt on a bus will be a direct cost item – a cost item the red-green in East-Agder has not found money to cover. This case has been trained enough. In autumn 2006, the Stortinget asked the government to assess the need for a legislative and regulatory change. Today – in 2011, five years later – the matter is being debated, and no one knows exactly when the change will be introduced. Norway has a lot of money, and we should use them to secure school students on the bus. We can afford to introduce it today if the will is present. It's not the red-greens in East Agder willing to do it. So I have a request to the government to give their party colleagues training and give them money. We need to ensure that the school students on the bus also in East Agder, despite the fact that the red-green parties in the county did not want to spend money on it, and despite the fact that the bus company itself is not being offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2482	There has been a strange debate. We have heard the brilliance of the Progress Party and others who have gone in the breeze to try to get through that children should be secured by bus. We have heard that it has been very much appreciated. It is clear that it should have been very much appreciated, but what is strange is that we have the debate. Some tests even say this has to do with tendering procedures. Then I will compare with lifesaving equipment in the boat. In speedboats, everyone is required to have life jackets for all passengers on board. In ferries, which are also open to tender, there are requirements for safety equipment and life-saving equipment for all passengers over whom a concession is granted. Even in the taxi industry, there is a requirement to have seat belts for any passenger, and if you are to carry a child, the child – also in a taxi – must be secured with a chair. It is strange, then, that when we get to the bus – i.e. school buses that carry children permanently to and from school – we should not be able to introduce this requirement until a given number of years. I am very surprised, because I have not heard any questions about lifesaving equipment in the boat. I have not heard any question marks by removing the exception that the taxi industry had in its time. So you took that away, and it wasn't a long process. It wasn't about that this regulation might come into force in one, two, three or four years. No, it was done there and then. I'm very surprised why we don't have children, when we've been standing one after the other and talking about it being the girlfriend we have, to secure them on board the school bus. The boyfriend we have. We need to secure them in our own cars, we need to secure them on boats, on ferries, in taxis – anywhere else than where we're going to take them to school. I'm asking Stortingen to think about it one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2494	I agree with Mr Nesvik that there can be some strange points of view and comments. For example, one of the few hearing authorities that have been skeptical about this amendment to introduce a regulation is Hordaland County. We know which party is in position there, and we know who has the leader in the race selection. So I think, with reference to what was said from Aust-Agder, that there's a lot more from different parties that can clear up a little bit in the county municipalities. What I actually asked for was, what are we talking about here when it goes off? Let's be aware, then, that there are no own statistics on the clocks of schoolchildren under school pillows, but the State Road Service has examined how many children between the ages of 5 and 15 who have been injured or killed in the last eight years, where they sat in a bus and the accident found their place between 5 and 15. 7 o'clock and 7 o'clock 17: One person is killed. This did not put in a bus in a route, but in another bus/tour. Four is badly damaged. All of these were put in a minibus/bus in a grid. I mean, like a co-congratulation, that in spite of this, the sintef report shows both the father by staying in the parking lot and the danger by not using the belt. We've seen that in several studies, and that's why it's so important to be there and get this in place. Finally, I would like to stress when it comes to road safety, which this is also about, that in 2010 there were 208 traffic fatalities. That's 208 too many. However, we have to go back to 1954 to find the corresponding low numbers, despite the fact that traffic is multiple. So far this year, 146 people are killed in traffic. It's 146 too many, but it's still 40 fewer than in 2010. It shows that the combination of safe roads and measures for drivers is important to last. I would also like to stress that we also need to have regulations in place as soon as possible in this field of scouring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2503	I'm a little surprised by the Council of State. So the council goes to the pulpit to tell and try to imagine that it's the county council that's in charge of preventing this. The state council uses as an excuse that it was this county municipality that spoke negatively. That is not the issue. This issue concerns the possibility of writing a regulation imposing the use of seat belts on buses – that is, the legislative assembly and, in particular, the Council of State and the Government. It's becoming even more remarkable when the Council of State starts talking about that there haven't been enough accidents here. Then I start wondering what we're doing. The issue is whether to charge these school buses, among other things. seat belt, which in my opinion should be a matter of course for schoolchildren. I'm a little surprised, for me, the red-green government has been in position for six years – six years. At least one step has now come closer, because today at least the Council of State has not complained – yes, I'm sorry, she has apparently complained about budgets that the former governments had at the time, and now she has even begun to take the county council in Hordaland. This is about will. This government has not shown the will to get these things up on the table, get the code in place and make sure these things get right. If it's money, you should at least find room for it earlier. There is at least no previous government that has had more money to route with than the sitting, if that's the question. I wonder at this fact: this is not about Hordaland County. It is not about other county municipalities either. This is because the government has not done its job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2514	First to the representative Haugland: I took a little check on what had happened in the county of East Agder, and the matter is probably a little bit more complex, without going into details there. But it's clear that we're self-criticizing that we may not have been good enough here, but there are enough other parties that haven't been either in the counties or at the central level. So it is a pleasure to have come to where we are today. I am not upset by the Council of State, as the representative Nesvik is. I am very pleased with the Council of State. That the council here with us says that she is impatient and has a bad time, citizen for a good and quick result. It is also logical, and I also stand for what I said in 2005 when the Progress Party promoted representative proposals – that I had never sent my daughter who was then 9 years old in an unsecured bus, standing, on her way to school. I stand for that today. I am very pleased with the local pressure that has been out in the counties – all the media storages and all the anxious parents that have been on. I think that has led us to where we are today, and I think that has led to a lot of states taking hold of themselves. Then, of course, you can discuss whether you should not have had a law in place earlier. I think many of us agree. I guarantee my son in the car, I guarantee myself. I guarantee myself when I travel to the airport by air, there is a belt stop. I assure myself when I take the express bus to Oslo, there are belt instructions, etc. But who would count the lost battles on the winner's day? Now let's smile, be a little satisfied and share the impatience with each other and say that this is getting us to fast. I'm pretty sure it won't take long before the kids are secure and have seats and seatbelts on their way to school and to other activities, as the Council of State said.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2523	The Council of State replied that it was not just about economics, it was also about legal issues that made it difficult to put in place a system quickly. I thought it was such that if there was political will to do so, it was possible to do very quickly – both in this room and elsewhere. But yes, it's about actually finding the economic space, because the challenge for many of the county councils is that they don't have the money that enables them to implement this. So this isn't a legal problem. This means that this will be a struggle between the tasks for which the county is responsible and which are required by law and those which are not required by law. Then it becomes like these are the tasks that are not required by law, that lose, and that means that this is one of the areas that loses that fight. It is probably a four-five years since the representative Freddy de Ruiter was on this pulpit and said that he would never want his child to be transported in the way that many, many hundreds of children are transported every year – using public clouds or public communications – which is not allowed in a private car, but which is fully legal as long as it is the public that is responsible, and as long as you do not have to make sure that it comes with money. I think that some of the worst things about this case – that you cannot now agree that we say that from 1 January 2013, all children should be secured with a seat belt and a seat on the bus – is that every time I, the representative Freddy de Ruiter or everyone else in this room who is here now, sit on an express bus, we are both guaranteed a seat to sit on, and we are guaranteed seatbelts, but for our kids we are unable to put in place a system before 1 January 2013 for them to have the same security as we have when we sit on public transport. But maybe that's how we can pay a little bit extra for it, and then it's okay, then you get it. But for our kids, we don't want, or we don't get the same thing, until the latest school year 2015/2016. Nor are our kids driving around in the best and most beautiful buses. In my county I know many of the buses used for the school transport. I have occasionally been up and delivered a kindergarten child and drove by buses. Then those who were supposed to have been training said that they had to drive the bus home again, because it is not safe to drive with. That's what some buses use for school transportation. No one else would have accepted them, but we're still going to accept for three years so that children don't get a really safe school transport, as the council has said they're busy. But I really hope that the Council of State will listen with both ears and take the signals that are coming. The industry is willing. It's about finding the financial instruments. Then the industry will set up, and they will make sure that everyone gets a safe and good school kiss. They do that from 1 January 2013, if we just find the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2534	This became a strange debate — on the basis of the joyous fact that a unanimous increase today will in fact adopt an amendment to the Road Traffic Act that allows the Ministry to adopt a regulation requiring county municipalities to demand seating and seatbelts. It does not seem that this is what the debate is about – the debate is about everything else. Political will was just a string here. Yes, it is about political will, and it is about political will in the counties. I don't know how many kilometers of asphalt it would have required or answered to have imposed claims in the different county municipalities, but in some county municipalities there aren't many kilometers we're talking about. Yes, it is a matter of prioritising the county councils as well. That's what we did in the Nord-Trøndelag, when we introduced the requirement, because we thought it was more important than much of the other. It's going to be hopeless to sit and discuss different political colors, the different county municipalities, because here we are, all the parties actually, with dirt far above the layers of this case in different county municipalities around, unfortunately. Point 1: The law will be amended. We are given the opportunity to impose requirements on county councils about seating and seat belts in school buses. Point 2: The time at which this is introduced has not been determined. There has been an out-of-court consultation with an indication of an undetermined time. That discussion continues. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I have said that before today, and I repeat, we are impatient. We want this in place as soon as possible. We will work for that within the government. It's about political will. It's about willingness to give priority. That is the will of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2545	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2553	Then it seems that the Storting is ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2577	Case No. 2 there was a vote on the matter during the examination of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2709	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2719	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2727	During the debate, Trond Helleland has put forward eight proposals on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a model with prior approval of companies.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the rules on work permit as a skilled/specialist so that the requirements on competence are more clearly determined by the employers.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to simplify the procedures for the renewal/renewal of work permits’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the simplification/modification of the legislation on migrant workers from non-EU countries wishing to bring their spouse/children to Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of language training as a right for unemployed workers from EEA countries.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the ceiling on the number of entries under the specialist quota’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the implementation of the Blue Card model from the EU Blue Card in Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the amendment/simplification of the process of applying for the assignment of the person number to work immigrants.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2778	The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e2811	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e3105	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e3115	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e3123	During the debate, Laila Marie Reiertsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an overall case relating to the organisational model of occupational injury and proposals for new occupational disease rules, and that such a case be brought before April 2012. ‘... Alternatively, between this proposal and the Committee's setting up: Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left, which is distributed at the representatives' seats in the Chamber, has not been picked up and will therefore not be voted over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e3138	The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e3500	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e3510	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e3519	For this matter, one proposal has been put forward by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Financial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: «Decisions to the mutual funds law [[Investment Fund Act]] The proposal of Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Financial Committee is a change in the wording of the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6-7. This will replace the setting under the same paragraph. The vote will therefore be taken on the vote and the motion in the same vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e5453	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e5463	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e5471	For this matter, one proposal has been put forward from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to grant funds equivalent to the State guarantee for the Youth Olympics for investment in child and youth rights throughout the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e5510	A total of two proposals have been put forward for this matter. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to raise the issue that a new key for the tipping agents is to be divided into 64 psts. goes for sport, 18 pst. for cultural purposes and 18 pst. to social or humanitarian organisations not associated with the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that 100 pst. of the funds shall be entitled to culture and sport and shall not be distributed through the State budget.’;» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e5544	On this issue, one proposal has been put forward by Mr Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no school children are transported in school buses without seat belts or sufficient seating positions after 1 January 2013 and that the additional costs entailed are included in the State budget for 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e5715	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e5725	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-10.ana.ud1127e5829	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
