ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e26	Two permit applications are available: – by Mr Øyvind Vaksdal, on leave on 16 and 17 November and by Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on leave on Thursday 17 November – both to attend meetings of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Hordaland County, Torkil Åmland and for Rogaland County, Terje Halleland, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e54	Terje Halleland is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e59	On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Jørund Rytman, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative ‘to better facilitate first-time start-ups in the housing market’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e64	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e76	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, Sigbjørn Johnsen and Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e83	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Getting a cancer diagnosis is tough both mentally and physically, says everyone who's been through it. In addition, breast cancer is unfortunately the most common form of cancer in women, and we know that the risk of getting that diagnosis increases with age. In the evening post on Sunday we could read about Marianne – a woman who had cancer at the age of 41. It's not an age. Then you have, in theory at least, over half your life in front of you. Yet she had to fight a long and heavy battle against an invisible wall of bureaucracy and decisions like the country in her disfavor. So she had to go to the step of taking a lawyer to get her rights taken care of, and she won. I'm afraid she's not the only one. We now see a wave of these kinds of issues targeting public health, because you don't get your fundamental rights respected. What makes me react even more is the speculation we could read about in the evening post, that you are now preparing an upper age limit of 35 years to get a total reconstruction of the breast after a breast cancer operation. I would like to challenge the Minister of Health to this: does this vote? Is that debate really going on too fully in the Norwegian health system? If that's the case, does the government sit still and watch it happen? Does it accept this? Or, will the government put its foot down for the respect you should actually have for half of the country's inhabitants? Once upon a time, a woman in her 40s is at her best age. She's not an item that we can give a time aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e94	I fully agree with the representative Jensen that getting a cancer diagnosis is very serious and may lead not only to physical pains, injuries and pains, but also to a lot of mental suffering – I would say – too many. It is clear that a woman who is 41 years old is, as the representative says, in the middle of her best age and should be well treated for her cancer diagnosis. Fortunately, when it comes to treating breast cancer, we have good results in Norway, we have a good survival rate, and hospitals have very much focused on good patient outcomes. So breast cancer patients – at least in general – experience being well cared for in hospitals. What has been a problem, and which has been mentioned a lot, is precisely this with reconstruction. How long should you wait for reconstruction? Because this has not been part of the treatment in the past, I took the initiative – almost a year ago – to the Health Directorate that they had to include this as part of the treatment in their guidelines. It's now done, and then reconstruction of the breast becomes part of the treatment that's concerned with breast cancer. If you have to remove a breast, you have to wait for a period. It is for professional reasons that a period must be expected to be completed in order for the reconstruction to be completed. But it won't take as many years as it's been in the newspapers, to get a reconstruction. It must be part of the treatment of breast cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e105	I record that the Council of State will not answer my questions. I explicitly asked if it is such that the government agrees that there should be an upper age limit of 35 years to be evaluated. So this reconstruction, which is the technical expression of this, is about getting a new breast after the breast has been cut away in an operation. Everyone understands why women have that need. I want to know if the government agrees that there should be such an age limit, or not, whether it is such that you should have this right to a reconstruction after an operation, or not. Then I have to say that when the waiting time, for example. Here in the capital, is over seven years to get such a reconstruction, then it's an unsustainable wait. Then I will challenge the council of state: how long does she think she is acceptable, because now she said that you had to expect to wait a little, but maybe not for the same number of years? Does the Council of State mean you have to wait this year, or do you have to wait for weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e112	It's a medical question when you can start with the reconstruction. There are also different methods of reconstruction, and there are different waiting times for the different methods. If you're going to have the most advanced reconstruction, it's been a long wait. What has been my concern is that the reconstruction of the breast that you have had to remove should be part of the treatment. Then it must be up to the individual responsible doctor to determine when it can be done at the earliest, after any other type of treatment that may be necessary. But it's not like you have to wait years to get a reconstruction. That's why we just added it as part of the treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e122	Before we move on to follow-up questions, the President will draw attention to the fact that we have Serbia's parliamentary president on official visits to Norway. She is present here today, at the gallery, and it is a great pleasure to wish her and her delegation welcome to the Size. We hope that they will have an interesting and pleasant stay here with us, and that the visit will contribute to an even closer cooperation between the Stortinget and the Serbian Parliament. [[Applause from the Chamber]] Then we go to follow-up questions. Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e127	It's touching to hear the Minister of Health talk about that reconstruction should be part of the treatment, that you haven't finished the treatment until you've been reconstructed. We often see a great deal of involvement with the government party’s big business representatives, but not in this matter. I want to encourage everyone in this room who might have a partner, or a wife who – or herself – is hit by such a disease, to get into the situation where a woman aged 35 to 41 gets breast cancer, and gets surgically removed from her breasts, and who has to go for ten years and wait for a reconstruction. The power is in this room. It is a political will to be able to go in and say that this should be part of the treatment – you should be treated, and you should be reconstructed immediately, so that you get a full life. When the Minister for Health says that it should be part of the treatment, how many years does the Minister for Health think it acceptable for a woman to wait for such a reconstruction?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e134	I think it's been a very strong commitment. From my side, it's very important that we get better quality in the treatment of breast cancer. That is why our government has introduced quality requirements. We've introduced quality measurements, which we're going to be much better in the future. In the case of waiting time, I replied that it is the doctor who has to decide when the first point of a reconstruction may come. But it is not acceptable that, when you can get a reconstruction, you have to wait several years. Then there are different waiting times for different methods here, but there should be no doubt that once this has come in as part of the treatment of breast cancer, there should also be acceptable waiting times.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e141	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e144	I raised this issue with the Council of State a year and a half ago. Then the waiting time was estimated to be four years. So after a year and a half, the waiting time is estimated to be seven years for the exact same thing. This means that development is going wrong — not the right way — in practice, out in hospitals. Now, we don't need any more investigations to establish that young women who have had cancer or who have a high risk of cancer, and therefore have to remove one breast or both breasts, need to get help with breast reconstruction within six months, when medically possible and justifiable. It's a heavy load. It's not just about surviving, but also about being able to live, when the question of breast reconstruction comes up. It has to be over that you have to be just grateful for getting well, you also have to have an opportunity to live a decent life afterwards. Then is my simple question to the Minister of Health: Will the Minister of Health set a recommended time and give those entitled to breast reconstruction the opportunity to go to private people who can do this – and how many pay a lot of money themselves – instead of waiting for the public to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e154	Now that I have asked that this be part of the guidelines for the treatment of breast cancer, that precisely that with reconstruction is taken into account throughout the course of treatment, we also need a recommendation on how this should be handled. It should not be that someone should go and wait for many years. So there's different methods of doing this. Some have shorter waiting time, and others have longer waiting time. It's a little bit dependent on what method you're using. But there must also be professional recommendations on the basis of what you actually do. I fully agree with the representative of Solberg: it is very important that we give people the opportunity to live a good life after having cancer. Of course, this is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e161	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e164	I am very pleased with what the Minister of Health says, that reconstruction should be part of the treatment. When we also know that studies have been done, including: by Anne Elisabeth Isern, a specialist in gynecology and plastic surgery, which shows that women who wait a long time for reconstruction have twice as high a risk of relapse as those who have had a new breast, it shows that we just need this as part of the treatment. But I don't think we can go from this question hour without knowing: Is a now working with an upper age limit, as the representative Jensen raised? Does one really work with that? Can we cancel it – that you don't work on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e171	I'm not familiar with anyone working with an age limit here. I have not received the professional recommendations on how to implement this, but I am not familiar with any age limit of 35 years. That doesn't sound fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e176	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e179	My question goes to the Minister of Health. On 24 June the Prime Minister presented a cancer guarantee on behalf of the government in which he promised that a maximum of 20 working days would elapse from a hospital receiving a referral if necessary, until one has completed the investigation and first treatment begins. In retrospect, the government itself has created uncertainty as to whether this was a goal, a guideline, a guide or a guarantee. The Minister of Health himself has used the word ‘guarantee’. In fact, the right is not so much concerned with what the government calls this, but we're very concerned that it actually works for cancer patients in Norway. TV 2 has repeatedly demonstrated that this is not the case, that very many cancer patients have to wait significantly longer than those objectives say. The concrete objectives of our healthcare system are very good. But if they're going to work, they have to have actual content. The results must be measurable and we must have a plan for achieving the targets. The government's guarantee, goal, plan or guide — as one chooses to call it — is today an empty description of an ideal, but without a concrete plan for how to achieve this goal, or when one will get there. So the government knows where they want to go, but they don't know how to get there, and they don't know when to be there. My question to the Council of State is therefore quite simply: Has the government set a date for our healthcare system to be able to achieve the government's goal, a concrete date for when this is a reality for Norwegian cancer patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e192	I very much agree with the representative, Höie, that many cancer patients have waited too long. We have seen examples of this, and we have also heard today about patient injuries and compensation in connection with someone waiting too long. I don't think that's acceptable. The government does not consider it acceptable for patients with serious illness to wait too long for investigation and treatment. That is why the Health Directorate has developed guidelines for several cancers. The Health Directorate has also provided recommended courses for cancer treatment, i.e. from referral received by the hospital, until treatment starts. This applies to 20 working days for 80 pst. of the cases, because for some cancer cases it takes longer to carry out a proper investigation in order to determine the type of treatment to be carried out. It's a goal of reaching 80 pst. That's 80 pst. all cancer patients must have started treatment within these 20 days. Hospitals are also required to adjust to meet these objectives. We published in our past and median waiting time for three cancers. We're going to keep doing that. But from next year we can also measure the 80 percent, and only then do we know where we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e199	I find that the government has absolutely no idea when the Norwegian health service will be able to meet the objective of 80 pst. our cancer patients should receive treatment within 20 days. One has absolutely no progress plan for when this should be a reality. The Health Minister says this is based on professional guidelines. That means that this is medically justified by the Directorate for Health. The previous civil government introduced individual medically-determined time limits for each patient, giving a legal right to choose treatment elsewhere in Norway or abroad, if the time limit is broken. Will the Minister of Health ensure that the professionally recommended deadline now has consequences for the individual medically-determined deadline for Norwegian cancer patients, so that this gives a legal right for the patient when the deadline is broken, to choose treatment in Norway or abroad, public or private, on public account, so that this does not actually become an empty objective, but a real guarantee for Norwegian patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e206	There is no difference between patients’ rights and the current regime. So there should be no doubt that hospitals in Norway will be working to achieve the targets of 80 pst. must be in progress within 20 working days. It's very important, not necessarily because some cancer patients couldn't wait any longer, but precisely because we want to give better cancer treatment – and don't risk someone waiting too long, as we've seen. The basis for seeing when we're in measure is just to measure. This year we measure the median waiting time. That's what we've started with. It's something that the previous government never did. We've started doing quality measurements. It's actually quite important to get better cancer treatment. Already next week we're going to work with the department's professional environments to look at how the different hospitals work. Someone's already reaching this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e215	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e218	The right, together with the Cancer Association and the State Health Authority, has repeatedly stated that the expected waiting time for cancer treatment must be published on the Free Hospital Choice website, so that the patient can choose the hospital with the shortest waiting time, which can be done for other diseases. The Minister for Health has rejected this every time by pointing out that there should be no waiting time for cancer treatment, but Norwegian cancer patients unfortunately know very well that this is not the case. Today, the Free Hospital Choice website can be found out what was the waiting time one year ago for some cancers. But for those who have prostate cancer now, it helps little to know how long it was a year ago. So these numbers can be directly misleading. So my question is, when are the cancer patients going to know the waiting time for cancer treatment in the different hospitals and not just historical figures, like today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e228	I agree that it is not good enough when it is a year old number. The most important thing we do now is just to measure how much time we spend, and to publish it on the HELFO pages and on our national health portal, so that people can get to know this. And there are differences around the country. As I say, some hospitals have a very good patient history and treatment process in the case of cancer, others spend more time. There is reason to assume that although we are now measuring the median waiting time, there are some hospitals in Norway that are already reaching the goal of 80 pst. the treatment must be initiated within 20 working days. But we're going to get better at publishing figures, just to allow patients to choose for cancer treatment, because we're busy getting better treatment for cancer, getting faster in treatment. That's why we've made these changes, and that's why this is also important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e235	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e238	When the Council of State does not want to answer the representative Jensen's question about the age limit of 35 years, I unfortunately have to interpret it to that point that she then agrees that such an age limit should be introduced. As far as the cancer guarantee itself is concerned, the Health Directorate is constantly providing technical advice – we know it is health policy-makers – but it is very rare to use the Prime Minister's press conference to present professional advice. The Council of State itself has used the word ‘carcinogenicity guarantee’ in this case. This government has guaranteed both several hands in the care of the elderly and several hospitals – 10,000 even – and it has had a guarantee of dignity, and the Council of State has also guaranteed that she has full control of the conversion in Oslo University Hospital. My question is: can the Council of State explain to me what she puts in the word «guarantee»?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e249	When this was published in June, I was very clear that this was one way the hospitals had to set up. Hospitals are required to adjust to such a patient course and course of treatment, that it should be 80 pst. patients should go 20 working days from referral to the hospital until treatment starts. To the extent that I have once used the word mentioned here, it is in a completely different context and in a very special case that I was asked to comment on. However, there should be no doubt that there is a requirement for hospitals to arrange themselves so that they can carry out treatment with a start within 20 working days of referral. This shall apply to 80 pst. for some patients, longer investigation time is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e254	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e257	Andreas Stensvold in the cancer unit says: «It» – the cancer guarantee – «has not changed our everyday life. It may have caused more frustration for patients who believe they have a guarantee, and there is really no guarantee." Today at the NRK we could also hear more about Kjell-Olav Svendsen asking questions about how to provide this guarantee. Now we know that the challenges are huge all around the country, but they are particularly demanding in the Oslo hospitals, which also have a process of conversion in progress. My questions are: Was the Prime Minister aware of the major challenges facing Oslo University Hospital? We know a transition process where patients are not called to control, where one has an ICT system that is not good enough, and where one has frustrated laymen and nurses. Was he aware of the serious situation when he gave this guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e271	For the government, it has been important to make this change in the treatment of cancer patients because it has been linked to the professional guidelines, because there has been a clear recommendation, and also because we have seen that some patients have waited too long for treatment. It's very unfortunate. Then there are major challenges in the Oslo area, yes. There are major challenges in the larger hospitals, also because they often have more complex treatments and often have referrals from other hospitals. But it's not like we're not working on this. This is being worked on all over the country. We have full pressure to get to the goal of that 80 pst. patients must have initiated treatment within 20 working days.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e280	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e283	I have followed this guarantee debate for a while. In many ways it becomes a little unworthy of those who are affected and in a desperate situation. One thing is that it creates political disdain when one goes out and promises such in a campaign, but does the Minister of Health not see that it is pointless to issue such guarantees in an election campaign, thus giving cancer patients false hopes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e288	When this was presented, it was presented in such a way that the objective was 80 pst. patients were to start treatment within 20 working days of referral from the hospital. That's how it's been presented. When I also commented on this in the media, I was very clear that now the hospitals have to identify what bottlenecks they have: what is the obstacle to being able to do this today? We also have to see that some hospitals are actually doing it – quite a lot of people are doing quite well and are working on getting even better. For some cancers, you cannot wait 20 days – treatment is faster and treats as if it were immediate help. It has been a clear objective to reach the 80 percent, and there has been a requirement for hospitals to set themselves up in the course of treatment to do so. It is linked to the professional guidelines developed by the Health Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e295	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e299	It is enough for the Minister of Health to ask this question as well, although I understand that it is very much in the interest of having the word «guarantee» used after the election. I don't know if the council remembers that she was here for approx. One year ago and answered questions from the undersigned, when many representatives in this room, the then Minister of Justice, Jan Bøhler and others, had announced that it was now ready for the tipping-off at 0 p.m. 02 at night. The Minister for Health canceled that proposal in the spontaneous Question Time a year ago. Now there are many good forces that are out saying that now the proposal comes from the government – for example. by the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, and I will not be very surprised if the current representative of the Grand Mountains is one of those who could imagine this proposal coming. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we proposed this already in the previous great age period and have so far repeated it in this period. VG was able to announce yesterday that they have reason to believe – and they often have reason to believe a lot that can prove to be voting – that Jens will shut down the tipping crane at 0 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. My question goes, of course, to the responsible state council, whose department was completely silent yesterday and would not comment on the progress – or ‘progress’, as it said in the VG: Is it now that the government will promote a proposal for a tipping-off at. 02, which will have many positive effects on many cities, and when will the Stortinge get presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e310	The government has not finally concluded on this matter, but I have also read in the media that many have engaged, and I understand that, because this is a very important debate. It is also an important debate in relation to the state and the municipality. The municipalities are today free to limit the turnout time, but of the big cities there are Trondheim and the workers' party rapporteur there who have actually done it, and they have good experience with it. Then there have been major objections in connection with this as well. There are many dilemmas. But there is no doubt that the SIRUS report showed that there was less violence in the Norwegian cities that was involved in the investigation, if the donation was closed at 1 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. The government has not concluded. We are going to come back with this matter. But I want to say again, as I also emphasised very clearly last time, that the municipalities have a great responsibility. They have a responsibility to enforce the bulwark control, and in part they have done it very badly – in some places they do it very well. It is clear that preventing overlap is important, and it is important that municipalities engage in both gift checks and other shifts to ensure that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e319	So I did not succeed in getting any guarantee that the government would promote this proposal. I then go back to the argument that the Council of State used a year ago. She then produced the SIRUS report to which she now also referred, to which she would ‘wait’ before the government would conclude on the question of turnaround time. Now it's come, so the argument the government had a year ago, is now not present. The question is: Can the Storting expect a clear answer from the government before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e324	We received the first part of the SIRUS report in September – that is quite correct. We haven't dealt with it in the government. Before I get to Stortinget, I want it treated by the government. But we need to have full pressure on the matter. There is a great deal of interest in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e329	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e332	I think when historians and socialists look back at this period, they'll see that the politicians knew that there was a lot of damage to the gift policy that's being pursued, they knew what it took to reduce them, but they didn't do anything about it. Unfortunately, I think that is going to be in political history as a sign of weak political leadership. This is urgent, we know this, and we don't understand why the government can't now get this case up on the table and decide. Does the government now dare to stand up to the industry and stand clear on what we actually know works, namely to reduce the turnout time, and bring this as soon as possible to the Storting, so that we can get safe cities in this country again?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e339	In fact, the return of safe cities is something that local politicians can decide on at any time. It is actually the local politicians who set – decide – the gift times in their municipalities, decide who should give, who should have access to it. There's only one decision at the local level, so you've kind of done what you want to do. Where appropriate, the government shall do something about setting, or changing, the maximum time of donation. But really, local politicians, like they've done somewhere, for example. in Trondheim, limit the time of gift if they think it is right, and there are many good reasons to do so. It is therefore the case that local politicians enforce the spectres – the spectres – they exercise control, and they have the full opportunity to limit the turnout time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e344	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e347	The Ministry of Health claims in its consultation note that international research shows that reduced turnout time leads to less violence. Researcher Ingeborg Rossow at just Sirus says that there is no research covering to say anything about such an effect. Dr. Ben Goldacre, who has just been to Norway, author of the book Bad Science, points out that the difference between science and quack salvery is that quack salvery refers to ‘single studies to promote its fixed agenda’. How does the Minister of Health view being in a quack booth, and how does she see that she and the government actually misinformed the Norwegian people and the Storting when they claim that there is scientific evidence to claim that reduced turnout time is less violent?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e354	It's the police that deal with a lot of the violence that happens after and during the night, especially in the cities, and it's probably also the police that have a very good background to say something about what the state is like after people are pretty fancy, compared to when you're sober. You can just read the newspapers, and we'll see what's going on at night, for example. in Oslo. This is not about incorrect information from my side, I asked for the SIRUS report just because we wanted a study to be done in Norwegian cities. That report is to be discussed by the government, and then we come back to Stortinget after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e359	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e363	My supplementary question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. On the Municipal Council in May, Navarsete lighted up a little bit on the veil of the big message about the relationship between the state and the municipality, a message that was due to arrive before the summer. The Councils of State stated that the trends show: ‘for the last ten years, the State has tightened its grip and the municipalities have lost their room for action’. Now we also hear the Minister of Health say that this is a municipal responsibility – it is up to the municipalities to assess what is wise in their own municipality in terms of donation times. Over a number of years, donations/appropriations have been the subject of local political debate, numerous referendums have been held on the sale of beer and on other issues of alcohol policy. In Oslo, this was an important theme in the campaign. All the voters in Oslo knew what the various parties thought about the times of the city. The voters gave their judgment, and when this judgment is given, the government sees that this does not fit completely into the picture, and considers overcoming local democracy. Time goes by, the growth message about the relationship between the state and the municipality is waiting. Will the Council of State recommend that the issue of turnout times be included as one of many issues discussed in the forthcoming bigotry communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e377	The upcoming big message is not a message where we're going to go into every single thing and discuss it. It is a principle message about the relationship between state and municipality, and in Norwegian democracy it is that the state has a legitimate right to set a framework around the municipalities' governance. That right has always had the Stortinget, it will always have the Stortinget, and it will also apply if there are superior political objectives that one wants to implement through government policy. This is how it has been in Right's reign, and so it has been in other governments' reign. What matters in the message is to determine the principle that should apply to that governance and how municipal freedom of action should be within it. If the professional recommendations, the police's experience and others indicate that the government must do what may not be perceived as the most popular measure, but which will nevertheless contribute to both more calm and better stability, it is a matter at national level that the Storting should also be able to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e382	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e385	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Recently, the Financial Committee met representatives of the World Bank. In today's difficult situation, the best recommendation that the World Bank could give to the nations was that one should invest in infrastructure. Investment in infrastructure meant the World Bank was investing in the future, it was a good thing that benefited everyone, and it was an investment in future value creation. Norway has a documented maintenance service on our infrastructure. It's a big aftertaste, and it's partly rising. Recently, the leader of the Center Party, who also sits in government, was out and frustrated. She has been a transport minister and knows where the shoe prints, knows where the need is, and what opportunities exist, but cannot fulfill her wet dreams because of an action rule that limits. We have a surplus on the state budget of 345 billion. kr, but the rule of action forces us to invest that money abroad, in fear that investment in Norway creates pressure on the economy. At the same time, we find that just a week ago, the oil industry adjusted its estimates for investment on a Norwegian base by 5 billion. kr, without causing the government to go out and say that then the government must cut the budget for domestic investment. Next year, the oil industry will invest 174.7 billion. kr. In addition, operating costs are 58 billion. kr. This is obviously not of particular concern to the Minister of Finance. But when the Minister of Finance was a common man and had a job as a county manager, he wrote a chronicle in the evening post that we have to change the way we invest in infrastructure, because we can't meet the needs that are there, and we have to change the legislation around it. Will the Minister of Finance take care of his designer hat, which he uses when the budget is presented, act as a normal man and ensure that we can invest a little more in the nation of Norway and build for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e396	We have a good budgetary system in Norway. It is a budgetary system that is long-term and it is a budgetary system that is responsible. Just the responsibility of the rule of action, the responsibility of using public budgets to smooth out fluctuations in the economy, is a characteristic of the governance of the Norwegian economy. This makes it very reliable, not only in Norway, but also out there, about how Norway controls its economy. If we look a little bit closer and look out of Norway, and to Europe, it's a little bit of the opposite that's the situation. There is no free money in this system. So making proposals that one should finance things apparently outside the budget, which seem to be free of charge – does not really work. There are many countries out there that have devoted themselves to financing things outside the state budget and beyond a major and important total budget priority. We're not going to run it in Norway. In the 2012 government budget, the government proposes to grant 16.3 billion. kr by road, 12.5 br. kr to railway, of which SEK 9.9 billion. kr to the Railway Station. This is a government that rates investment in infrastructure, this is a government that rates forward-looking, and we are able to do so within the framework of a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e405	Despite such a thunderous speech, I note that members of the government are not satisfied, because they see that the need is far greater than the government provides room for action. It's no wonder the government can boast that they're spending more money on the way, because this government is collecting 300 billion dollars. kr more in tax revenue this year than for example. The Bondevik government did in 2005. We have to remember that this government is also using the budget line, like granting money for interest compensation, which allows you to actually trigger 4 billion. However, this does not come about through budgetary appropriations. So the government can boast that they're using the less than 4 pst. rule, while they can actually end up using more. But the point is that we have a budget where we can't distinguish between investment and consumption. So the oil industry can invest as much as they want without a limit being set and considered irresponsible, but immediately someone suggests using 1 billion. kr more on e.g. way than what the government has said, it is defined as irresponsible. Does the Minister of Finance see what he did when he was a stateman, that this is unreasonable, and that you can't build the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e416	It has been said about politicians, and so far it can include officials, that what you have said before, becomes their greatest enemy later. This is an example of using an article that I signed with my good friend Matz Sandman. I have responded on previous occasions in Stortinget. What was the main point of that article was to point out that there was too little framework for transport investment. The government then came with the National Transport Plan, where one proposes to spend 100 billion dollars. kr more than the previous government for investments in transport. I think that's good. That's the one. The second is that the ability to acquire learning and knowledge is quite important, and the undersigned have a good quality in that way!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e423	Two follow-up questions are raised – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e426	It is quite a pleasure to hear the Minister of Finance's curve around the rule of action. The truth is that when the world's stock exchanges rise, injecting more money into the Norwegian economy is miraculously more responsible. If it goes up by 1,000 billion, it's 40 billion more. Economic accountability is defined by the size of the oil fund plus/minus 4 pst. All other variables are subordinate. In the ten years of the rule of action, most have improved materially. However, in a longer-term perspective, the number of employees in the public sector has been rapidly increasing, the number of people living on public transfers, 600 000 now, the increasing number of retired people in the past, while Norwegian competitiveness is gradually declining due to high levels of wages and costs, and the increasing number of companies flying out of the country and the infrastructure are increasingly lagging behind. The truth is, Norway is unfortunately using its financial muscles to pass on more and more people. It's quite doubtful. [[The President clubs]] Does the Minister of Finance think that the rule of action is still a good medicine for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e437	The answer to that is yes. The rule of action has served us well. It's going to serve us well in the future. Luckily, there is widespread disunity about the rule of action in Stortinget from all parties, except the Advance Party. We're going to do what we can at the next big shot to make sure that there's still a majority in the Stortinge working under the rule of action. It's interesting, even though someone has now tried to drag the Center Party into this, that the Center Party is one of the parties that is loyal and faithful to the rule of action. That's the way it should be. The progress party has a different story to tell.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e444	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e448	There may well be reason to remind the Council of State of what he actually said in that article, and it was, as far as I know, that Norwegian transport models have expired. So maybe there were more than just priorities, it was a little bit about the model as well. After all, the right has promoted OPS many times in this room. Prioritisation is difficult for a government. It's so hard for the outgoing state councils to write books about how difficult it is. And it doesn't get any easier because the analysis models don't help much. I have to say I'm quite surprised when we read that the tunnel in Bjørvika provides a social benefit of minus six billion. kr, and that the E6 project that is now being developed along Mjösa, which we got to Stortinget recently, brings a community benefit of minus 3 billion. kr. Then there is something that suggests that the analysis models do not help very much in relation to prioritizing. Will the Council of State both initiate and review these analytical models so that they can be of real help in assessing societal benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e457	That initiative has already been taken. There are two samples: there is one sample looking at estimates and estimates around estimates. I have the honour to answer a question about it from the representative Gundersen later, in the ordinary Question Time. There is also a group that looks at this with profitability assessments of public investment. So that work is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e462	Then we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e465	It's good that the Minister of Finance is standing. The financing scheme through Export Finance has been central to Norwegian shipyards and Norwegian suppliers for many years. The reason is that without it it will be difficult to achieve international competition for the really large contracts on, for example: ships and drilling rigs, not least now as our competitiveness in labour-intensive jobs – this applies to thousands of jobs across the country – are deteriorating. This export finance system is now being drastically reduced as a result of the government’s view that this is not a basis for granting the permanent exemption of export finance from the new rules of the EU capital adequacy directive. It doesn't look like you want to try either. Concern messages from both individual enterprises and organisations across the country flow. The Minister of Finance has taken a bastant’s view that there is no basis for granting permanent exemptions. However, in a letter to the Ministry of Finance — a letter that was initially not publicly known — the Financial Supervisory Authority, which controls this type of activity, believes that it is possible to make exceptions in the light of the special role of Export Finance in Norwegian export financing. The same is true of two independent legal reports submitted this week. Thus, many suggest that there is a room for action in favour of the Norwegian export industry in this case, a room for action that it does not even indicate that the government will try to use. Then there will be the inevitable question for the Minister of Finance: What is his reason for believing that there is neither formal nor so-called real basis for trying to use the space of action used by 17 EU countries, for which the Financial Supervisory Authority considers this to be the reason, and for which two independent reports consider this to be the basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e478	First, I would like to stress that yes, export finance and the arrangements that export finance manages, among other things. on behalf of the State, the so-called 108 scheme, are good arrangements for the Norwegian export industry. We will continue to have good and sound financial instruments for the Norwegian export industry, so that we can build up under the important role of the mainland industry – shipyards and other important companies around Norway. So let's not doubt that that's the case. With regard to the specific question of possible exemptions, it is my opinion that there is a bit of a trace on the side of what is in some way the reality of the matter. The reality of the matter is that one now around Europe is looking at how to capitalise banks and strengthen credit institutions in order to better enable them to meet the challenges facing the European and international economies. This means that on the EU side, which has made these rules, credit institutions are supposed to have to have more capital in order to have exposures, more than is the case under the legislation we had in the past. It is important to emphasise that, for this matter is concerned with the question of whether export finance should have a stronger capital base than the export finance has today. Then Norway and the Norwegian authorities are allowed to address relevant issues in the EEA Committee. We've never been in doubt about that. But the question will be whether it is possible to get an exception. That's where we evaluate it so it's hard. The main question is whether it makes sense to provide export finance with a permanent derogation from a regulatory framework to help strengthen financial institutions not only in Norway but also in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e485	Unlike the Council of State, I believe that the reality of the matter is the situation of Norwegian shipyards and thousands of jobs in this country. Today, there has been a lot of talk in this questionnaire about guarantees, and I see that there are workers' party representatives in particular running around and saying that no one should be harmed by the situation that has arisen. It is a significant guarantee, in my opinion. Several have been out there and said so. It seems that it is almost only to turn on the thread of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade and his State Secretary that someone should sort this out. How will the Minister of Finance, in practice, arrange for no one to be harmed, when one knows that contracts may be lost every day, and that there are problems with contracts in progress, precisely because this does not work as it did in the past? It is an interesting guarantee to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e494	I believe the undersigned and the representative Fletten can quickly agree that Norwegian export companies should have – and that is also the prime interest of the Minister of Finance in this matter – a good, predictable and reliable financing system. There has never been any doubt about that. There are two possibilities to achieve that. One is that the current owners of Export Finance are involved in recapitalising the company, so that they get a more solid capital base. That's point one. If it turns out to be difficult, or impossible, we are prepared to go in and design a government scheme that provides a predictable, long-term and secure financing model for Norwegian export companies. We are working on that matter, and there is a great deal of pressure on finding a good solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e501	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e504	The doubt which the Minister of Finance considers to be absent is clearly present at the large export companies. This is currently the most combustible issue for thousands of jobs and businesses dependent on exports. I note that the Minister of Finance says that it has not been possible to obtain an exception. Financial supervision believes that this is possible. But then the Financial Supervisory Authority says something else important in its letter to the Department of 15 April: ‘In what way exemptions shall be sought must be based on the interest of owners and relevant authorities.’;» Then my question is, is it that the government has not been interested in getting an exception? Has the government and the Ministry of Finance tried at all? When we see the power you use to get a derogation from the Postal Directive, it's quite alarming if you haven't tried. Has the government tried to obtain a derogation from this Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e516	We can well discuss whether an exemption from a capital adequacy directive is to be granted on the question of whether European, including Norwegian, financial institutions should have a stronger and more solid equity for their exposures to other banks, and to contribute to good financial instruments such as: for the export industry. But the main question is whether we want to. I'm very clear that we need strong financial institutions, and we need export finance that is a solid institution. The question of whether a derogation could be granted in the EU, whether it makes sense to have a permanent derogation from capital rules, which means that export finance has been recapitalised less than what is reasonable and what will be right from a given situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e521	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e525	It's a little strange to hear that the Minister of Finance, in the middle of his answer, asks questions back if we want to. I would like to hear what the Minister of Finance's answer is to that. Does he want it, or does he not want it? Before I became a politician, I worked in shipping. I know what it's all about -- going from year to year and not knowing what the framework conditions will be next year. In industry and in the shipping industry, where billions of money are invested, we must have clear framework conditions that persist over time. The Minister of Finance himself, in the light of the current financial turmoil, stressed that this government is following the situation closely to ensure that industry has safe and good conditions. But when you get to a test like this, the government fails. Because when a combined shipping industry and a combined industry go on government and the Storting in this way, it is because they feel that the government does not fulfill its promise to secure the conditions. Are the industries that have misunderstood what the government wants? Can the Council of State say if he wants something?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e530	After this matter became known early in October, I was very clear in an interview on 19 October. There I said that there would be an equally good arrangement for the export industry. There has never been any doubt with the Minister of Finance, with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade or with the government that that is the point. We can do that in two ways – either by recapitalising export finance by the current owners, where the state owns 15 p.m., or by creating a government system that is predictable and long-term, which ensures the financing opportunities for the export industry. That's point one. Point two: Yes, the Minister of Finance is occupied by strong financial institutions, by strong and solid banks. It is my main prayer in this case as well. But we also need to have a good funding system for Norwegian exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e535	Rigmor Andersen Eide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e538	Words such as ‘candals’ and questions as to whether there is either a deliberate act or only a forgetfulness on the part of the government that they have not applied for a derogation from the Directive have been mentioned and addressed. This is disastrous for Norwegian shipping companies and shipyards that are now working to fill the order books, which are beginning to be emptied. A head of the Sunnmørspost indicates that the government has previously played teams in an area that state councils prefer to show guests when describing Norwegian success. I hear what the Minister of Finance answers, but it doesn't help. This has also been done by the Minister for Trade. Governments have tried to calm the industry for weeks, while shipping companies are referred to waiting. Now the waiting time is over, and the consequences of this waiting are among other things. Iceland Offshore is dropping plans to build four platform supply ships at STX in Brevik. Is it the Minister of Finance who is preventing a solution, as we have a Minister of Industry who wants a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e545	Firstly, the Ministry of Finance has extended the export finance exemption by one year. It's an important signal. The second is that both the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry and the entire government have a similar interest in this matter – to ensure that we have a good system in place as quickly as possible that is predictable. The government needs to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e550	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e562	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be taken up by the representative Lars Myraune.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e586	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e593	The finance minister has announced in advance that I should ask him questions. My question is: «Tax income is once again exceeding the tax base. Under the government of Stoltenberg, the tax estimate is underestimated every year, with a total of approx. 70 B.C.E. kr for the period 2005-2010. The trend seems to continue in 2012. Are government councils concerned about the lack of accurate tax access models?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e607	I refer to the small exchange of words we had a little while ago about models and estimates. What is the situation is that the Norwegian economy is doing well. We have a high level of employment and low unemployment. Norwegian companies have enjoyed good prices on export markets for a long time. Investments in both households and enterprises are at a high level. This trend is also reflected in tax revenue, which has become higher in recent years than we have expected. In 2003 and 2004 it was the opposite. Tax estimates in the State budget are drawn up as part of a large number of national budgets related work. These estimates are based on the estimates made by the situation in the Norwegian economy and the economic outlook. From 2004 to 2008, we were in the midst of a strong economic recovery. Then tax revenues increased more than expected. In the years following 2008, taxes have also been slightly higher than estimated in the current budget, despite the financial crisis and the subsequent decline in the Norwegian and international economies. In the budget, we divide the estimate of taxes actually paid into two. Part of the income is considered to be linked to short-term economic activity and is therefore temporary. These revenues are then ‘corrected’ out of the budget and cannot be used to increase expenditure or reduce other revenue. The second part of the income is what we call structural tax revenue, which we think should represent what we call an expected normal level of tax revenue. This is a little technical, but what is important to emphasise is that the increased tax revenue over the period 2006-2010, both those paid, and what we call structural tax revenue, has a counterpart to the fact that the costs for the country and the municipality have also become higher than originally estimated. Wages and salaries have increased, particularly during the boom period before the financial crisis. So there are different relationships that increase uncertainty. There will always be uncertainty about estimates of economic developments, including developments in taxes and taxes. What we now see in the international economy underlines this uncertainty. Looking at Norway in relation to other countries, the revisions in the Norwegian tax estimates show that they are not particularly large in an international context. It is also the case that the rule of action helps to reduce short-term fluctuations in the economy in budgetary policy from year to year. So the conclusion is that yes, estimates are uncertain, but experience over the last ten years shows that we have a good framework for governance of the Norwegian economy, and it has mainly worked well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e620	I thank the Minister of Finance for the review. We should all be pleased that Norwegian economy is doing well, and there is a rather cross-political consensus around part of the governance mechanisms in the Norwegian economy. But my question was whether you were worried, because it looks like there's a systematic deviation there, at least it's been since 2005. That's right: in 2003 and 2004, it was underestimated, and it illustrates that the Bondevik II government also had a rather tough job compared to what you've experienced afterwards. We're sitting here in Stortinget now and we're finalizing the state budget and fine-tuning a few million dollars here and there, and then we're getting new tax credits that increase the freedom of action by billions of dollars. If there is systemicity in this, I think it is a little worrying, because it can simply weaken the credibility of the Storting budget process. That's what I want to turn into.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e627	I have a slightly cautious approach to the concept of ‘anxiety’, but I am at least concerned about the question. That's why we've put down a sample to look at the models we use to calculate estimates that point forward in economic development. It's always been hard to predict the future, but as I said, we've been working on trying to find out if there's anything we can systematically do better to get an even better decision base than what we have today. So this is a question that concerns me, and it's also a question that I'm looking for to find even better answers to. I would also like to point out that there is a small chapter in the national budget for the next year, Chapter 2.6, from page 39 and beyond, where one goes a little bit into the problem that the representative Gundersen is raising. I think it is a fine debate, because it is important both for position and opposition that we have the very best decision-making basis, both for a government budget and for alternative budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e634	Yes, I have noted that review, and I note with satisfaction that the Council of State signals that he is very concerned about this. Something else would have surprised me, for there are huge sums we are talking about, and even for a finance minister, a few billion dollars are important to dispose of in the right way! We've had a bigger debate about dynamic effects, and it's going to continue for a while, because even there, the Ministry of Finance is developing new models. But the right goes into its alternative state budget – which was presented yesterday – 300 million. kr in dynamic effects. The State Secretary was able to characterize it as 'hospital states', which I very disagree with, because it actually just signals that we know that there are some dynamic effects there, and we want to make it clear. But I'm satisfied with the answer, that this is something the Minister of Finance is concerned about, and I expect that we will come back to the debate about this later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e643	Yes, of course, Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss this when the sample is finished. It would be quite natural that we invite to a broad discussion about it. In order to underline what you might consider to be a kind of uncertainty: today, new quarterly trade figures are published, which show that we have now had the second strongest export quarter for the Norwegian mainland industry. It is happening in the midst of the European crisis. So, yes, this is an interesting question, and I can promise the representative Gundersen that this will give us the opportunity to discuss together when the sample is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e654	I have the following questions for the Minister of Industry: ‘What initiatives have the Council of State plans to take to improve the framework conditions for tomorrow’s growth businesses, in particular in relation to the financing of innovative projects with a high value-creating potential?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e661	It is important that good innovative projects with a high value creation potential find adequate funding. The development of such enterprises helps to provide the basis for future growth and prosperity in Norway. The main role of the market is to provide financing to new enterprises, but it has also taken on a role in triggering risk-free private capital. Such projects will often have difficulties in obtaining loans and, therefore, in the ownership notification submitted in the spring of 2011, the government announced the introduction of new equity in the Investinor and to new nationwide seed funds. In the 2012 government budget, the government has proposed that Investinor be allocated a total of EUR 1,5 billion. NOK in new equity. Thus, the investor will have a accumulated capital of SEK 3.7 billion. kr. The investor always invests with others and generates significantly more capital for selected enterprises than own investment. The company thus contributes to the development of the capital market at an early stage in Norway. By strengthening the equity of Investinor, the government will ensure that the company can contribute to the growth and development of new enterprises, in industries where Norway is strong, in the years ahead. Seed funds are a cooperation project between the State and private investors. The basic principle is 50–50 funding between the State and the private sector, and government risk relief is good. However, the existing seed funds have very varied financial results, and some funds have lost — or will lose — more than what is predetermined for loss. It is therefore important that, when creating new nationwide funds, we learn from past experience and make the best possible possible use of good management of the values of the funds. At the same time, the funds must be sufficiently attractive to private investors. As a follow-up to the submitted ownership notification, the Government will make an appropriate proposal for new seed funds for Stortinget. In addition, the Government, in the proposal for the 2012 State Budget, has proposed to grant approximately 1.5 billion. kr for grants, networks and responsibilities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade budget for the ordinary instruments of Innovation in Norway. Innovation Norway shall pay particular attention to projects in the Idea, Development and Commercialisation phase. The primary target groups are entrepreneurs, young enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises with growth potential. Among the schemes managed by Innovation Norway are the nationwide innovation scheme, including stipends, research and development contracts and the eco-innovation scheme. The framework for these schemes has been proposed to be 233 million, respectively. NOK 285 million. NOK 257 million. kr in 2012. In addition, Innovation Norway’s framework for new lending is proposed. The budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is 3 billion. kr. These are stable and significant contributions that will contribute to the continued realisation of good innovative projects. In the spring of 2012, the government will present its own key messages on Innovation Norway and SIVA. The aim of the Communication is to facilitate a public instrument adapted to the needs of industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e674	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background to the question is that it has recently become known that there have been several indications that dynamic growth in the Norwegian economy is pointing in the wrong direction. According to Ernst & Young, the number of growing enterprises with over 20 employees is halved this year, compared to the level in 2008. The number of fast-growing small businesses, the so-called gas companies, recorded by the Business of today, has been reduced by 59 pst over the same period. In parallel, we have also seen a decrease in the number of people participating in the start-up of new businesses, according to the international GEM measurement. Is this not a sign that it is time to rethink business policy and ask some new questions in relation to instruments and framework conditions for innovative entrepreneurs and growth businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e683	I think it's important to think new continuously, not just occasionally. This is one of the reasons why we have carried out a full evaluation of Innovation Norway, and that we are going to give a big message about Innovation Norway and SIVA’s instrumentation – just for the time being to be sure that the tools we have are the answers that business needs to answer the questions created by new times. At the same time, what the Minister of Finance spoke about in his previous reply — that is, that Norway is doing very well. We have the lowest unemployment rate of 30 years in Norway, we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, we also have a strong employment rate in private business, so we have record numbers – or close to record numbers – on our exports. It is not given that it continues, especially when international clouds threaten the horizon. We have to evolve constantly, and that's why we're coming up with a big message about Innovation Norway and SIVA, which the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e690	I thank the Minister of Industry again for the answer. We agree that Norway is doing well. However, despite what the Minister of Industry says about Investinor and Innovation Norway, it is important to recognise that there are problems related to the lack of access to risk capital and associated competences for entrepreneurs and fast-growing companies with ambitions to grow with base in Norway. Many suggest that in this area we have failed a little in Norway, at least as the Left sees it. The left considers that the government should place significantly more emphasis on addressing this issue in the future, while at the same time reminding that the challenge we face is all the greater in a period of financial turmoil and uncertainty in the international economy. Can we expect the Minister to take concrete initiatives? I hear he says there is a message coming, but I want more concrete initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e699	The left can certainly expect that once the Stortinget adopts the budget for 2012, Investinor will receive 1.5 billion. fully concrete crowns of new equity, which, together with private funds, will mean a lot of capital to enterprises in the growth phase. It is also possible to take exactly what is stated in the ownership notice that new nationwide seed funds should be set up, and there will also be a very concrete message of upkeep with concrete measures to make the concrete instruments of Innovation Norway and the SIVA even better to help businesses in a start-up or growth phase. These are tangible things that the government does to ensure that the concrete situation, the lowest unemployment in Europe, can hopefully continue, and that new jobs are created at an even higher rate than the old ones disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e717	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e724	‘In June 2011, the Prime Minister said, ‘We are now demanding a maximum of 20 working days from the hospital receiving the reference to the necessary investigation has been completed and first treatment is started.’ ‘When we have set a 20-day guarantee, we want that to happen,’ said the Minister of Health on 5 September. "I was clear that it was not a guarantee, but an objective," said the Prime Minister on 8 November. Warranty or goal, TV 2 has recently shown that this is not real. The Prime Minister referred to the State budget for TV 2. When will the promise be fulfilled?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e731	Patients with cancer should not wait unnecessarily long for investigation and treatment. Following advice from prominent professionals on what would be reasonable deadlines, I decided on 23 June in the year 20 working days that normative time from referral had been received by the hospital, to start treatment, for 80 pst. by cancer patients. For some patients, there will be a need to investigate beyond the 20 working days, while for others, faster treatment will be appropriate. This decision was immediately made known to the regional health establishments. The Health Directorate has been assigned to monitor closely the development of hospitals and to report back to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The time from the referral to treatment initiation will be measured for patients with breast cancer, lung cancer and colon cancer. Eventually, we're going to measure the time-use also for other cancers. The results of the measurements will be public, so that both patients and the treatment environment can follow the development of cancer treatment in terms of time use. The need for faster investigation and treatment of cancer patients is a major challenge for hospitals, but cancer treatment is a priority area. It is a question of finding good ways to organise work, so that patients get the help they need at the right time. I met yesterday with representatives of the health companies in Telemark, More and Romesdal and Nordland to be briefed on what they are doing to facilitate the new eras. Common to these is that they focus on logistics, new models of cross-department interaction and good patient information. Next week I will meet patient organisations and cancer professionals at a work meeting on logistics and organisation in the field of cancer. Time spent on investigation and treatment varies between hospitals, and this is an opportunity to learn from those who do the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e744	First there was a guarantee, then there was a goal, and now there are some professional recommendations that are given. However, I record that the Council of State is unable to say anything concrete about waiting times and has no idea what we can expect from deadlines in terms of investigation and treatment. The Minister of Health said earlier today that there were major challenges in the Oslo area, but it is not just in the Oslo area. We watched the TV 2 news yesterday from Haukeland, where it was up to 12-14 weeks waiting. One patient had been waiting for seven months for an investigation — one month to get the results, and then three months to wait for surgery. Doctors say that these promises that the government has made are impossible to fulfill. In reality, there's no real promise. It seems to me that the Minister of Health does not have the necessary overview and control of the situation for cancer treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e753	We have good cancer treatment in Norway, but we can do it even better. Just all these observations about some patients who wait a very long time are a reason enough to do something about how hospitals set up their treatment processes. This is a management requirement for hospitals to arrange the treatment so that no more than 20 working days from receiving referral to treatment has been initiated or started, for 80 pst. by the patients. So this is also going to be a goal of reaching the 80 percent. Per today we can just measure the median, we've been very clear on that. But what matters to hospitals is precisely identifying the bottlenecks they have. If surgical capacity is a bottleneck in Bergen, they have to do something about it, and others have to adjust to it, for example. X-ray.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e758	Half of those with cancer do not have symptoms that point directly to a particular type of cancer – they have unclear symptoms. Recent figures from Denmark show, among others: that of those referred from the diagnosis centre at Silkeborg with unclear symptoms, have 15 pst. cancer. For comparison, it's 20 pst. by those who are directly referred with suspicion of lung cancer at Aarhus Hospital, who have cancer. This means that there is almost the same incidence of cancer among those with unclear symptoms as among those where there is concrete suspicion. The head of the hospital in Silkeborg tells today's medicine about the consequences of just introducing a cancer guarantee without having a diagnostic centre: ‘But the average mortality rate for all cancer patients does not fall because the second half of the cancer patients, who are not included in a package, are pushed behind the queue and do not receive adequate treatment.’ Then my question is: will the government, in the light of these experiences, establish its own diagnostic centres for those with unclear symptoms, as proposed by the Right, so that there is no bottleneck in terms of investigation and diagnosis?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e768	Hospitals have established diagnostic centres for different types of cancer, and it is particularly important to establish the treatment and course of treatment and to cooperate across professional boundaries in order to make a diagnosis. So it's also that it's not as easy for everyone to be diagnosed quickly. Here we have also seen examples in the media in recent years of fast doctors who have not been referred to patients for priority study in time. It is important that all parts of the healthcare system, from the emergency services to the hospitals and other parts that may be in contact with patients, are sent to patients for examination as soon as possible, if there is a legitimate suspicion of cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e777	This question, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be raised by the representative Lars Myraune.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e780	«The Focus Programme at NRK 8 November shows a sheep farmer from Steinkjer who is threatened with grazing due to the large loss of sheep on pasture-based predators. In the area there is documented loss to bear, yerv, gloupe and royal eagle. The area is outside the breeding area of bear, the number of juveniles for gloupe is twice the size of the population, and the large royal eagle population is not managed. What will the Council of State do to bring down the total wild game load, so that the loss rate becomes acceptable and that no grazing is introduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e787	I agree with the questioner that the loss of sheep and grazing animals is too high in some areas and that it is important to facilitate conflict mitigation measures. The rapture agreement, which the Right also stood behind, is a good basis in this way. Pasturage is a very strong instrument, to be used cautiously and only in special cases, but as the Food Authority has described in a letter to grazing users with severe losses over a long period of time, grazing may be relevant in some herds for animal welfare reasons. Let me underline – there is something to be used with great caution. About 125 000 sheep and lambs are lost annually in Norway. Of these, 33 000 were replaced as losses for wild game. So the vast majority of sheep and lambs that are lost are not due to predatory game, but have other causes. So this is not what the NRK refers to in its online case on the programme, that 1 million sheep have been replaced as lost to predatory game in the last ten years in Norway. About 1⁄4 of the lost grazing animals are lost to predators. As the questioner knows, there is an area differentiation in Norway, where grazing animals are to be prioritised in some areas, while other areas are to be priority areas for young people. The management shall be completely different, with the emphasis on grazing animals in the grazing areas and with a focus on ensuring the populations of predators in the breeding areas, but of course so that in those areas it is also attempted to be as gentle as possible with regard to grazing animals. Now it is asked about a very specific matter in the Nord-Trøndelag, so then you also have to answer specifically on that matter. The farmer concerned is in an area outside the breeding area of the bear, but in line with the management plan of the Rovviltnämnde in Middle Norway, it is still within the breeding area of the gloupe and york. As you know, the decisions in such areas are decentralised. Very little of the wallpaper is documented for loss cause. This does not necessarily mean that the loss is not caused by predatory game, but because one does not know what the cause is, it is also difficult to apply targeted measures. Nevertheless, considerable resources have been contributed to preventative measures for this herd. In 2011, the farmer was allocated around DK 145000 for various prevention measures, including: late drop, early sinking and exceptional supervision. This is something environmental management does because the herds graze in areas that are prioritised to you and gloat, so that the farmer can adjust the operation accordingly. Let me say if I'm joking, the questioner says it's right, that it's above the population target for globs, but high yields through quota hunting in the last few years have reduced the population of globs. The ambition is to have a globular population in line with the stock targets. In the case of royal eagle, it shall not be actively managed with withdrawals. In line with current policy, only claims of individual individuals are relevant to the royal ear and the county council has the opportunity to assess such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e804	I thank you for your answer and have the following additional questions: In the predatory agreement of 16 June this year, the national stock target for bears was reduced from 15 to 13 juveniles. The Ministry of the Environment, on the basis of the agreement, has given signals to the various levels of administration to follow up the conciliation. That's fine. We appreciated that. However, in a note to the Ministry of the Environment of 29 August, the Directorate for Nature Management proposes that the reduction in the size and number of bear juveniles be added to the predatory game regions 7 and 8. It does not seem to be in line with the intentions of the predatory settlement, which aimed at reducing the level of conflict. The number of claims after damage by the bear was in 2010 in Hedmark 1582, in Nord-Trøndelag 868 and in Sør-Trøndelag 972, whereas in Nordland there were 180 and in Troms and Finnmark 111. In other words, the level of conflict is significantly higher in regions 5 and 6. How does the Minister for the Environment react to such a recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e811	First, I would like to say that there is a question here that is significant on the side of the original question, so if I are to give a very specific answer to the matter that is being raised, I must be allowed to come back. The question here concerned a grazing user who is in an area where it is gloupe and yerv that have breeding areas, and where it may also be the king eagle. In the case of bears, it is true that the predatory agreement reduced the number of breeding bears in Norway from 15 to 13, but the real number of breeding bears in Norway is estimated to be about. 6th@item: inlistbox That means we're not going down from the theoretical 15 to the 13 we're going up from the real 6 to the 13. So it is clear that we need to have more breeding bears in Norway in order to achieve the goal set by a unanimous growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e818	I thank you again for the answer. I'll ask you a question about royalty. In recent times, I have received concerns messages that go to the royal eagle. Since February this year 63 sheep and reindeer have been registered in Rovbasen only in region 6. Most are thought to be documented by the royal eagle. There have been repeated attempts to injure claims, but there have been negative responses from the county. The king eagle is worst in calving time, but the evidence often disappears after a few hours, because of the adjoining and the fly field, which makes the cause of death often remain unknown. The grazing industry, in particular the reindeer industry, expects a survey and a form of management within a reasonable time when it is so bad. Can the Minister for the Environment promise to address that problem and find a solution that reduces the level of conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e827	I would like to promise the questioner to address the problem and see what action can be taken. As the questioner is certainly familiar with, we have a very active member of the Nord-Trøndelag, who has also actively used the right he has to start killing once he has found it prescribed. It requires more dialogue with the relevant authorities for me to assess the situation that the questioner is describing here, but of course we should do our utmost to reduce the levels of conflict. But at the end of the day, the state and local authorities must assess the instruments to be used — in line, of course, with the national leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e838	‘The Nations newspaper writes on 9 November 2011 that ‘A small supply of lambs may cause a shortage of 200,000 pint meat dinners, fear the meat industry, asking for customs cuts. Nortura says the need for lambs is critical.’ Can the Council of State explain what he will do to avoid getting too little stick meat?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e845	The starting point for listing in the UN newspaper on 9 November of this year, if possible, was that the slaughterhouses had at that time received fewer lambs for slaughter than has been the case in previous years. If there are too few Norwegian goods on the market, the State Agriculture Administration, SLF, may reduce the duty rate according to the regulations in that area. On 4 November, the Landsförbund of the meat and poultry industry sent a letter to the SLF asking for the import of lamb meat at reduced customs duties. The SLF has assessed this event and, in a letter dated 11 November, has given an answer in the case. I would like to briefly explain the main elements that the SLF has taken into account: It turns out that one of the main reasons why fewer lambs were slaughtered was that the animals were less than usual when they returned from this summer's pasture. This is mainly due to the climatic conditions – weather and conditions – that I too, as Minister of Agriculture and Food, have to accept can affect this industry. However, lamb producers have the possibility to make adjustments to their operational arrangements based on the circumstances and the situation. In this case, a good many farmers chose to keep the animals at home on the farm for further fattening before slaughter, which I believe seems to be a reasonable adaptation. Nortura, a market regulator in this field, has communicated with its suppliers the need for a faster delivery of lambs for slaughter. This has given a joyful and powerful effect, and in the current week, week 46, twice as many animals have been registered for slaughter as in the corresponding week of 2010. In addition, I have been informed that the slaughter of lambs for the production of penis meat this year will be extended by one week in relation to what has been common. Therefore, in assessing any import needs, the SLF has considered that there is uncertainty as to whether any market deficit exists. The experience of the last two years is also that there have been peanuts left in the shops after Christmas and far beyond the year. Therefore, I believe that even a possible minor decrease in the production of pink meat this year should not be considered critical in terms of meeting demand. In order for the SLF to grant less-tariff imports of agricultural products, a risk of serious market disruption must be present in accordance with the rules laid down. On the basis of the points I have now mentioned, the State Agriculture Administration believes that this is not the case. There is also an important additional element here that as much as one third of the WTO quota for imports of sheep/lam remains unused. As a result, the national agricultural management has refused the request to facilitate increased imports. I am therefore pleased to be able to reassure the representative of Tjældal on this matter. Pinned meat is an excellent party meal before Christmas, for Christmas and also after Christmas and must also be accompanied by suitable drinks. This important tradition is all the way forward – including this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e862	I hear what the council says, but it's not the signals we get that you have 150 tons of meat too little. What we hear from the private operators in the market is that Nortura, of course, has enough on its market, while they themselves have too little on the market. They're afraid to go empty. If this turns on, it could happen that only the regulator Nortura's own brands are bought. The industry itself says that this is critical, and that they are going to go empty. It is clear that the private industry, which is also to compete, may be exposed to the fact that the market regulator does not supply meat. My question to the Council of State is: How can the private market claim that they have too little, when the regulator says that it is enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e869	It is the responsibility of the State Agriculture Administration to review the situation and assess the need for possible imports. Imports have also been carried out in previous years in such situations when it was found that delivery difficulties were encountered. This situation is somewhat different. Significantly more slaughter has been reported in the current week – approximately. twice as much as last year at the same time — while extending the slaughter period. It is then assessed by the State Agriculture Administration that the market will be covered by the measures taken. Nortura is also responsible for ensuring delivery to the private people. There must therefore be little difficulty in obtaining access to slaughter, including for private persons in such a situation, provided that the assessments of the State Agricultural Administration are correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e876	I hear the Council of State say that, and I'm going to promise the Council of State that if there's any trouble getting meat, I'm going to get back to the Council of State and point out what he's been saying: they're going to deliver as a regulator. But my question is, if it happens, what the private actors say, that you don't have enough meat, how quickly can the Council of State intervene? And will he intervene against the State Agriculture Administration to possibly open or do anything about customs barriers? If you look at the end that this might be relevant, how long does it take to turn around to get imported meat, so that, as the council says, you can enjoy a nice pint meal with corresponding drinks?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e883	It is, as I said, the State's agricultural administration, not the State Council, that assesses this situation. They follow the situation from day to day and from week to week. As I said, it is still good time to get the necessary meat. It is that we have implemented such reductions in customs duties in the past. Last year this was done in connection with imports of pig ribs, and imports have also been made in the past in connection with the lack of beef. I assume that the State's agricultural administration will follow closely the situation, and that they will take the necessary steps to ensure that the normal Norwegian gets his stick meat for Christmas, and that we will have a pleasant Christmas celebration this year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e892	The question has been answered, and we are looking forward to Christmas dinner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e899	First of all, I share the Minister of Agriculture's wish for a happy Christmas, that we have a nice Christmas. My question goes to the Minister of Labour: ‘I refer to a look-up in the NRK Dagsrevyen October 21st, where a 28-year-old boy with a cerebral pairese has been granted a tricycle with an auxiliary motor. There have been problems with the help from the first day, and he has contacted Nav Help Center to get the bike replaced or repaired. He has been denied this, for example. because he is over 26 years old – this despite the fact that the application was sent before the age of 26. Does the Council of State consider this to be the correct interpretation of the legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e910	The question concerns an aid in the activity aid category. This type of aid may be granted to persons who fulfil the conditions laid down in the Law on Social Security, Chapter 10. Social benefits for such aids are granted only to persons under the age of 26. As I perceive the question from the representative Eriksson, this is two-part. Firstly, the question is whether, under the legislation, the assistance centre will repair facilities for persons who have received facilities in this category when they are over 26 years of age and, secondly, whether new facilities can be provided if the grant is broken and cannot be repaired after 26 years of age. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has informed that the assistance centres repair this type of aid even after the user reaches the age of 26, where appropriate. It is also a practice for the user to retain the aid after the age of 26. However, such legislation is currently in place, no new aid can be granted to a person who has reached the age of 26 years, even where the user has had such aid from the past. The representative, Eriksson, refers to a case in which a user must have been refused an application for repair of a tricycle with an auxiliary motor on the grounds that he has reached the age of 26. I do not know the specific matter. However, I have been informed by the Employment and Welfare Directorate that the country's assistance centres manage the legislation in a flexible way when they repair these tools, even after the user has reached the age of 26. However, the existing legislation does not allow users over the age of 26 to obtain a new aid. The age limit for training and activation aids is subject to a continuous assessment. Removing the age limit will have relatively considerable budgetary implications, and the government has so far found it appropriate to give priority to children and young people in this type of aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e923	Let me first thank you for your answer. Let me then further clarify the problem. It is true, as the Council of State says, that aid centres in some states have a very flexible approach to aid. But there are also some help centers around the country that don't have it, so it varies a lot depending on where you live in the country. In this case, you have a bicycle that does not work and that has been in for repair several times before the user is 26 years old. So the aid center says that if the bike doesn't work, you have to come back, and we'll look at it again, or we'll swap it. It has been said several times that nothing has happened, or that the bike has improved. When he passes 26 years, he is told that they cannot do anything more because he has passed 26 years. Does not the Council of State also think that this is a kind of training that is a hindrance to and disadvantage to the user?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e932	I just have to stress that I cannot go into this matter. I do not think that the representative Eriksson is asking me to do so, so we have to discuss this at an overall level. What I understand is the problem is – and we agree – that the legislation today is such that after you reach the age of 26, you cannot get a new bike, but you can get it repaired. My clear information is that there is a good and flexible solution that is used, but I understand that the representative has other information. I will check it again, but I have received clear indications that this is done. Then you have a situation where a person until he's 26 years old has a bike that obviously doesn't work and that's still broken. And then finally, it goes completely broken, and you're 26 years old, and you've reached the point of intersection to get a new one. That's the law. It is difficult for me to say that something has been done wrong here, and ‘drainage’ at least I do not believe I can sign that you have been involved in this matter or in similar matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e943	Just to go one step further: we imagine that a person, who in this case – and if we look at it on a general basis – has received a help before he is 26 years old. Then it turns out that there is a problem with this tool, and it is not possible to repair it. The supplier says there is a technical defect on the device, so it cannot be repaired. They have then passed 26 years, even though the application was sent before the age of 26. Shouldn't the legislation have been revised, so that at least you could replace the tool that the supplier has fixed, and get a tool that works? Today it is considered a new tool. Is it not possible to have a more flexible interpretation of the legislation in this area, so that a non-functional tool could have been replaced with one that works, once it has already been defined that he needs help?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e948	I think we have to assume that it's a limit when you're 26 years old. As represented by Eriksson, you may need to be 26 years old, but there is an economic justification that we have set a limit. So I understand that that representative's busy is the transition between 25 and 26 years, i.e. if there's something wrong in this period. The legislation is such today that Nav is no longer allowed to exercise the flexibility to which the representative refers, because when you are 26 years old, there is no longer the possibility of giving him a new tool. It will have great economic consequences if we don't have such a rule. I have no reason to say that there has been the wrong procedure or training in this case until then. So the starting point is that until you're 26 years old, and also after you're 26 years old, you can get this fixed. But this is clearly not something you have considered appropriate to repair.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e961	My question goes to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘The Climate and Pollution Directorate recommends in a letter to the Ministry that, when Statoil is to expand its plant on Snow White/Melkoya, the plant should be powered by electricity from the network and not by electricity from its own gas power station. This will be very expensive. Melkøya is a modern production plant for natural gas exports. Indeed, the gas power plant provides short-range power, but becomes the victim of a navigable climate policy. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable to refuse to use its own gas to operate the plant?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e970	Let me first congratulate the representative Amundsen on his new and important work. The answer is as follows: As the representative addresses, there is now work on the rights holders to investigate any extension of the capacity of Melkøya, the so-called Snow White further development. The rights holders in Snow White are planning to conclude on what concept they want in the spring of 2012. They look at three options: continuation of the existing installation with plans from the original Development and Operation Plan – PUD an extension of the LNG facility on Melkøya a pipeline alternative where the gas is driven from Melkøya and south to the Norwegian Sea Gassco conducts the investigation of the pipe alternative on behalf of the rightholders. These alternative development concepts will lead to three maximum differences in energy requirements as well. Once the final concept has been chosen and the rightholders continue in their project phase, the authorities will carry out a general administrative process of the project if the solution chosen requires authorisation by the authority. This involves a thorough and proper assessment of the different aspects of such a project, as always. The study of energy solutions and other environmental measures is an important and completely natural part of the regulatory process, including looking at a solution with connection of any new installation to the mains power supply. A connection to the mains network also requires permission under the Energy Act. An impact assessment process will be carried out for such a project, which will involve public hearings, where all parties interested in the project can make their views known. These recordings are then assessed by the authorities before making their decision. In my opinion, thorough and sound processes that illuminate the actual project are some of the strength of our management, in the way we operate. I will consider the issue of energy solutions for possible new projects at the Snow White plant when and if they come to treatment in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e991	I would first like to thank the Council of State for its congratulations. Secondly, I was a little disappointed with the Council of State's response, because the Council of State has previously distinguished itself by being clear and clear about not spending society's money on useless symbolism policies. Snow White electrification will be very expensive. It is difficult – really impossible – to defend it from a socio-economic perspective. These are costs of over 10 billion. Norwegian Krone. But there is also a bad climate policy, because we know that we could have purchased climate allowances from the EU at a far, far lower price than the cost will be by cleaning the gas power plant at Snow White. I would like the Council of State to provide some clear and clear signals in this way. If this is a bad social economy and there is a bad climate policy, why should it be assessed at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e998	I think my answer was very clear and clear on the point that if this project comes to authority approval, we will consider all aspects of it, including possible connection to the mains power supply. Otherwise, there is a wide range of assumptions that need to be met in order for it to also be physically possible. As of now, there is not enough net in our northernmost part of the country. It's a topic and a matter that has a high priority in my system now. I think it is necessary and right to connect the northernmost states to the central network. It will require large investments, but it will also provide opportunities for both renewable power generation and, of course, also to assess the electrification of Snow White, if there is to be a problem, but then on ordinary and ordinary terms, in the same way that we are dealing with all other projects of a similar nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e1003	I assume that the Council of State is aware that this is the opposite that has happened. When we had a low supply of energy in Finnmark – during the power crisis last year – it was actually the way that the Council of State knows that Melkøya delivered electricity on the grid from its gas power plant, simply because there was not enough electricity in Finnmark. This illustrates the dimension of the challenge for Finnmark: There is too little electricity, there is too little capacity in the transmission system, and it is very important that it is developed quickly. But it also illustrates a little bit of the situation you're in. At least you don't have to sit in the situation that has come into Central Norway, with the electrification of the Worm Lange, which has caused the region to have low energy supply, and you have a power crisis situation. Can I interpret the Council of States this way, given what he just said in his previous reply, that if it would be more reasonable to buy allowances in the EU than to clean the gas power station at Snow White, would the Council prefer the first?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e1010	I think it is safe to interpret the Council of State extremely clearly on two points. Point 1: It is important to generate electricity – security of supply – for Troms and Finnmark. There is a situation that is too bad by date. I believe that will provide rich opportunities for industrial development and social development in our two northernmost states. It's a project that has a high priority. I am very pleased with what I see as support for the project and the ambitions we have to link the northernmost states to this. I think we're going to need that, because this is a big and demanding project. Paragraph 2: It is too early to comment on the specific project, simply because no application has been made, and we are not dealing with applications from the Parliamentary Chair of projects that have not been requested. But on a general basis, it'll be like this that we're not going to deal with this project anything different than we're dealing with all other projects, whether it should be in central Norway or elsewhere. In conclusion, I very much agree that we do not have to assume that we are using much more power than we have, and further weakening the supply situation in Finnmark or other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e1021	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-16.ana.ud1105e1034	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
