ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e147	The representatives of André Oktay Dahl, Tove Linnea Brandvik and Jan Arild Ellingsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: application, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Ingrid Heggø, for the delegation to the Interparliamentary Union, has been lodged. The application concerns the authorisation of the representative of Ingrid Heggø from 11 April to 15 April, of the representative of Øyvind Waksdal from 13 April to 15 April, and of the representative of Gunnar Gundersen from 14 to 15 April – all to participate in the 124th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union from the Delegation of the Storting to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Karin S. Woldseth. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Karin Andersen, Tor Bremer, Lise Christoffersen, Sylvi Graham, Håkon Haugli, Geir Pollestad, Anette Trettebergstuen and Karin S. Woldseth in the period from 11 April to 15 April and of the representative of Ingerd Schou in the period from 12 April to 15 April – all to participate in the 2011 session of the Council of Europe, second division, in Strasbourg from the delegation of the EEA Joint Committee to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Committee, to be signed by the chair of the delegation, Grand Representative of Sven Roald Hansen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Laila Davay, Steinar Gullvåg, Irene Johansen, Siri A. Meling, Harald T. Nesvik, Jørund Rytman, Torgeir Treldal and Svein Roald Hansen from 11 April to 15 April, and of the representative of Gina Knutson Barstad from 13 April to 15 April, all to participate in meetings of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Oslo and of Svalbard from Thomas Breen on Monday 11 April from the representative of Dagfinn Højbrätten on leave from 12 April to 14 April to take part in meetings of the GAVI vaccine fund in Oslo. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Hordaland, Rogaland and Vestfold counties respectively, Torkil Åmland, Tina Bru and Heidi Ørnlo, are prevented from meeting in the Stortinget from 11 April to 14 April, and the first alternate for Østfold County, Stein Erik Lauvås, is prevented from meeting in the Stortinget on Monday 11 April, as everyone is currently abroad. The following alternates are proposed to meet in Stortinget: For Akershus County: Bente Stein Mathisen from 11 to 14. April For the Province of Buskerud: Ida Marie Holen and Nina Mjøberg from 11 to 14. April For Hedmark County: Farahnaz Bahrami and Frøydis Elisabeth Sund from 11 to 14. April, Ivar Skulstad Monday 11 April and Eli Skolaland Thursday 14 April For the Hordaland counties: Filip Rygg and Helge André Njåstad from 11 to 14. April and Einar Horvei on the 13th and 14th of April For More and Romesdal counties: Åge Austheim in the 11th-14th century. April For the Nordic counties: Kari Storstrand in the 11th-14th century. April For Oslo: Karin Yrvin in the period11.-14. April For Rogaland County: Magnus Skretting and Arne Bergsvåg in the 11th-14th century. April, Kjell Arvid Svendsen from 12-14. April and Terje Halleland on the 13th and 14th of April For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Sonja Edvardsen and Anette Stegegiardet Norberg in the 11th-14th century. April For Vestfold County: Tom Stroemstad Olsen in the 11th-14th century. April For Eastfold County: Kari Agerup from 11 to 14. April, Tomas Archer Monday April 11th and Stein Erik Lauvås and Tage Pettersen 12th-14th. April – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Bente Stein Mathisen, Nina Mjøberg, Ida Marie Holen, Farahnaz Bahrami, Ivar Skulstad, Frøydis Elisabeth Sund, Filip Rygg, Helge André Njåstad, Åge Austheim, Kari Storstrand, Karin Yrvin, Magnus Skretting, Arne Bergsvåg, Sonja Edvardsen, Anette Stegegiardet Norberg, Tom Stroemstad Olsen, Kari Agerup and Tomas Archer are present and will take a seat. Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre will carry 9 kg. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e376	We carry the mail by hand! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e388	The President can assure that both those above and those below 50 grams will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Henning Skumsvoll, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e393	On behalf of the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Oskar J. Grimstad, Ib Thomsen and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting a proposal for a representative on a review of cultural memory policy. And this is less than 20 grams!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e400	The representative, Per Arne Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e403	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I will be allowed to make suggestions to introduce the so-called ‘package course’ in cancer care and parts of ischaemic heart disease, according to the Danish model.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e408	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16.00 until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e424	As the rapporteur-in-Office, I am delighted to present the vote that follows from Prop. 67 S for 2010-2011, which concerns a free trade agreement between the EFTA States and Albania signed at the EFTA Ministerial meeting in Geneva on 17 December 2009, while the agreement with Serbia, which we have discussed here before, was signed. The starting point of the agreement is to guarantee Norwegian enterprises as good conditions as EU competitors, and to contribute to processes of a more political nature, such as the Barcelona process and the stabilisation of Western Balkans. Through the Free Trade Agreement with Albania, EFTA wanted to contribute to increased stability in the regions and to strengthen economic development in Albania. This free trade agreement covers trade in industrial products, including fish and other marine products, processed agricultural products, competition issues and intellectual property rights. The agreement also contains basic provisions for investment and public acquisitions and services. Own agreements have also been concluded between each EFTA State and Albania on trade in agricultural products. These are part of the Free Trade Agreement. The agreement has improved market access for industrial products, agricultural products and fish. This includes, inter alia: improved market access for Norwegian exports by removing all customs duties on industrial products, including fish, from the date of entry into force of the Agreement. The draft opinion of the Economic and Social Committee was forwarded to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for its opinion on 15 March. It has joined a Joint Nutritional Committee, which agrees to the ratification of this Free Trade Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e437	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 3422]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e453	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e462	It is an overall committee that wants to see a more democratic Iran that takes a clear distance from the human rights violations that are taking place and the frequent death sentences that are taking place in that country. We are united on the objectives, but as the setting shows, we have different perceptions of what means we are going to use to achieve the objectives of a more peaceful and better Iran. When I was a representative from the United Nations Storing in the fall, there were two interesting events I noticed. There were two presidents who got applause when they came into the hall. One was President Obama. The other was Iran's President Ahmadinejad. It came very surprising to me that he was going to be applauded when he came into the hall. In this proposal, the Progress Party is calling for the boycott of Iran and the withdrawal of the Norwegian ambassador to the country. As the Progress Party, the Centre Party and an overall committee are taking a great deal of distance from the extensive human rights violations that are taking place in Iran, but is a unilateral Norwegian boycott and withdrawal of our ambassador the way to go? Would Ahmadinejad receive more or less support for Norway, with the Progress Party at the head, for unilateral action and withdrawal of our ambassador? It's interesting to look at the story. In 1951, the democratically elected Iranian Prime Minister Mosadek nationalized the Britishide Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, and thus large parts of Iran's natural resources. The nationalisation was very popular in Iran, but raised great opposition from the former colonial ruler of the United Kingdom, who was in favour of economic boycott of the country. But Mosadek did not bow down. In 1953 he was overthrown in a coup d'état staged by British and American intelligence. The coup was the start of a long-standing dictatorship under Pahlavi Dynasty. The coup helped to strengthen anti-Western attitudes in the Middle East, a region that was then marked by colonial conflicts and resistance to Western colonial lords. It was perceived as deeply unfair that Western countries organized a coup d'état to overthrow a democratic government that wanted to nationalize Iranian oil. This paved the way for a long-standing brutal dictatorship. In retrospect, this event has become a symbol of Western double morality towards the Middle East, where, unfortunately, commercial interests have often gone ahead of democracy and the best of the people. The events of the 1950s form the backbone of Iranian attitudes to today's nuclear programme. The Iranian regime has committed extensive human rights violations. Iran is one of the countries in the world that executes most executions. Transparency towards the regime is crucial. The regime must know that the world is seeing and responding to what is being done. I therefore understand well the intention in the proposal from the Progress Party, but I am afraid that the instruments can work against their purpose. Our diplomatic presence in Iran ensures us insight into what is going on, and makes us open channels towards different Iranian environments. This enables us to react effectively and clearly to what is happening. Over large parts of the Middle East, we have now seen popular uprisings. The uprisings have not come because of the isolation of regimes in these countries. They've come from within. It is the population itself who, by getting up, has forced change. It is certainly not certain that isolation of Iran would have strengthened the opposition there. Having clear external enemies can unfortunately help to strengthen an authoritarian leader. The leader may be a symbol of those who dare to rise up against the former colonists. We, the majority of the committee, have concluded that we are opposed to the proposals of the Progress Party's boycott – not because we do not share the concerns about Iran's nuclear programme, or because we are not upset by the human rights situation in Iran, but because we believe that history has taught us that unilateral boycott or isolation does not lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e483	As the rapporteur was quite right, we are probably in complete agreement on the objectives and description of the Iranian regime – whether it is a serious violation of human rights, the wave of executions we have seen not least in the last few months, the imprisonment and torture of political opposition or an atomic programme that is in many ways out of control, at least without international control. It's a regime that not only scares its own inhabitants, but scares large parts of the region. It's pretty interesting to notice that when you meet both Palestinians and Israelis, both sides can agree that Iran is a challenge, not to say a problem. Last but not least, Lebanon's now-departed Prime Minister, Hariri, who warns against Iran, says that Iran is interfering with Arab issues. There's nothing new either. But the way Iran does this, you have to say clearly from. Now the different words of the case rapporteur are used, such as calling for 'boikott', etc., and that we want to isolate ourselves completely from any contact and dialogue with the Iranian regime. That's to draw our proposal very far. We are proposing to tighten the screw further on the sanctions already in force, and we are pleased that Norway has joined the EU in this way, as well as that of course we are complying with the UN sanctions. We are asking for a special searchlight aimed at politics. A regime that the Iranian wants recognition and needs recognition. They act internationally as an alternative to the hegemony of other countries and want to be a leading player in the international arena. One of my experiences when I was in the UN last fall was that Iran wanted to fight hard for a place on the board of the UN Women's Organization. Then I was proud that Norway was actively fighting against the Iranian candidacy, and that together with like-minded people, we were able to prevent Iran from getting a place there. So it's useful to stand up to Iran. It's useful to look at alternatives. We leave our proposal to the government to look at the individual measures. We don't want to describe in detail how the government is going to tighten this up, but we're pointing to some possibilities. We are also aware that each country must be treated individually. It's not like one recipe, for example. The recipe for how we have had sanctions against Burma, or previously against South Africa, is necessarily appropriate for a country like Iran. But we believe and believe that a country like Iran must meet offensively. One way to do that is to say that political boycott is one possible tool. But we're also open to others. In the last section of the letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we find no comfort, so at least we support our proposal, which says that Iran policy is «continuously assessed». We hope that we can have an active dialogue related to what is always right. I would like to make a few suggestions to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e496	The representative of Morten Höglund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e499	Since Stortinget lacks a regulation that representatives can quickly address matters of interest, I use part of my post to talk about the situation at Camp Ashraf in Iraq. We've seen dramatic images of 3,400 people who were attacked by Iraqi security forces this weekend. It was doubtless killed and injured in that attack. I'm very sorry about that. I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his clear view that this is the Iraqi authorities responsible for the security of the inhabitants and that violence and violence against the inhabitants are being so clearly opposed. This is not about anyone thinking they belong to a terrorist group or not. But this is about every citizen's right to live without violence and in freedom and tolerance when one has not committed criminal acts. So over to the rapporteur's remarks and this matter in particular. I thought it was strange when the case-rapporteur was a Norwegian United Nations delegate and was sitting and listening to Ahmadinejad's speech in the UN General Assembly. However, I would say that we are united here on the desire for democratic Iran. We also agree with the Progress Party in terms of the appropriate link to contribute from the Norwegian side in order to get it to. Then the Right Party and the Advance Party disagree on the instruments attached to it. On the other hand, we, both parties, are crystal clear that an Iran that is democratic does not have a priesthood. An Iran that is democratic has a popular government that turns out to be in the people's own interests. A large number of executions have been seen in the last year, including child executions, and there is a clear violation of human rights. Respect for the individual cannot be reconciled with neither killing nor execution — and even less with minors. I again fully agree with the Progress Party that there is reason to ask some control questions about the value of dialogue, but at the same time I believe that the value of a political boycott for Norway alone is considerably less. So far, the dialogue trail has not come to any concrete conclusion, either in terms of the nuclear programme for Iran, or in terms of democratisation or respect for human rights. The problem is that a reduced Norwegian presence will again cause us to have poorer information about what is actually happening in Iran. And it could also send out crazy signals that Norway is going on its own when we know that we are much stronger when we stand together, for example. related to the extended EU sanctions regime. In this way, I would also like to say that the Norwegian Embassy should be even clearer about its contact with opposition groups and civil society in general when it comes to retrieving information about what is actually happening. Let me conclude by saying that we must never, on the Norwegian side, doubt that what is at the top of the Norwegian Iran policy is precisely the desire for a democratic Iran that takes the population seriously, an Iran that is no longer destabilising for the region, which is the country to the greatest extent today, and an Iran that takes human rights seriously and learns some of the proud history that it has. Iran has a thousand-year-old history, with many fine examples of respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e512	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a very good review and a good reason why the majority has clearly said that a political boycott now by the regime in Iran is not a dangerous road. I agree with every word both of the description of the case rapporteur and of the assessments made there. We have a common starting point, that we are concerned about the development of Iran. The background for this is well-founded both by Skovholt Gitmark and by Schlagsvold Vedum; it is a violation of human rights and the role of the opposition. And the concern we have is cross-political. But I want to link a few comments to this. For what the representative, Mr Höglund, says here is that, yes, we are promoting a proposal, but it is up to the government to handle, or follow up, that proposal and what measures should tighten up the screw. I believe that there is some disclaimer from the Progress Party. To pursue politics is to make what you really want visible. I record that the Progress Party in this matter is taking part in a tradition – at least now in this big period – where they say that dialogue and diplomatic relations are something they want less of, not more of. In this way, the Progress Party is isolating itself in foreign policy in this Chamber. I think it is quite interesting, also in relation to the cooperation with the Right and to the extent that the political situation is especially in Norway. I disagree with the Advance Party in such a line. I believe in diplomatic relations. It is the tool of foreign policy, and the world needs – also towards the regime in Iran – more dialogue, not less dialogue. I am also very sceptical about the approach of the Progress Party, where one-sided Norwegian actions are said to be OK. I believe that the world must also stand together here, and that unilateral Norwegian measures would definitely not have a strong impact. The fundamental question is, what does the matter serve? If we were to withdraw our ambassador from Iran, what answer would Iran give? Well, they would probably withdraw their ambassador to Norway. Thus, we would have less opportunity to protest against the systematic violations of human rights that we see, and I believe that it definitely does not serve the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e525	On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have consistently and actively protested against the Iranian Ayatollah regime's violation of its people, against Iran's controversial nuclear programme and against the threats that President Ahmadinejad has brought against Israel and world peace. Iran is conducting a destabilising regional policy by supporting terrorist movements such as Hamas and by raising the fight for the eradication of the State of Israel. The proposal of the representative of the Party of Presidents gives us an opportunity to reaffirm this. We agree on many necessary measures, but this is hardly the time to shut down the Embassy of Norway or weaken our diplomatic capacity. Instead, Norway should actively use our diplomatic channels to gather information and to communicate a clear view of Iran, while actively highlighting our views in international forums dealing with human rights, nuclear proliferation and other relevant issues. Right now, in the spring of 2011, can be historic because of the violent wave of popular protests against authoritarian regimes in what we can call the Middle East in a slightly enlarged sense. At the moment of this possibility, Norway must be well up-to-date and actively contribute to the promotion of democracy and human rights. The human rights situation in Iran is highly critical. The regime is responsible for brutal abuses against groups of people who want freedom and democracy. Its gross violation of freedom of religion affects both Christians and other believers who do not follow the right teachings of the country’s Watch Tower Council. We also take a great deal of distance from the many executions carried out in the country. The fight against the death penalty is important. I agree with those who say that the executions of minors in Iran are a monster that should create widespread mobilisation in the world, even in countries that are not necessarily close to us in the general human rights dialogue. According to Human Rights Watch, the treatment of dissidents, such as demonstrators, arrested persons and prisoners, has become worse since the current President Ahmadinejad came to power in 2005. People's freedom of speech and assembly are being affected. The regime is routinely behind torture and other abuse of those in custody or prison. The responsibility lies on the regime, at first instance on Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and President Ahmadinejad. Since Ahmadinejad became President of Iran in 2005, he has suspended the suspension of the uranium enrichment programme. The International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, has established that Iran is in breach of the requirements laid down internationally. This is very serious. In the view of the Christian People's Party, Norway must follow up the international sanctions directed at Iran's nuclear programme, both UN and EU sanctions. It says that since 2006, the UN Security Council has adopted seven different resolutions aimed at the nuclear programme in Iran. Four of these resolutions provide for sanctions against Iran. Effective sanctions against Iran require broad international agreement. The Christian People's Party sees it as absolutely necessary for the Norwegian authorities to join the EU's reinforced sanctions regime from June 2010. The reinforced sanctions and measures include: a ban on trade in more than one product group and a ban on the export of key equipment and technology and related services to the Iranian oil and gas sector. They also target financial transactions. The list of persons, entities and bodies affected by freezing orders has been substantially expanded. With regard to Norwegian business involvement in Iran, Statoil has been in the spotlight. After Statoil decided to step down on-going technical assistance, the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs in September last year made it clear that Statoil is releasing sanctions. I have also noticed the abuse against Iranians in Camp Ashraf on 8 April, as well as what happened in 2009 under the command of Iraqi forces, and I am pleased that there is a clear view of this type of abuse against Iranians, even though the responsibility for it lies outside Tehran. We see in our strong wave of popular uprisings in North Africa and the Middle East. It is an expression of popular protest against the repressive policy of rigid, authoritarian regimes that govern the pact with a long but poor monopoly tradition. We see these protests in a number of Arab countries, including Iran. This region has great resources, but is hampered by political systems that oppress people and block social development. Here, Norway's voice must be crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e553	I would like to start by thanking you for a good debate on this issue, which is followed by all parties on the Stortinget, and which also have a great interest in opinion here at home and internationally between countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has, through a letter to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, given some assessments of this matter which I see have also been referred to in the vote, so I will not repeat it. I would like to say here that I agree with the broad majority position that is in place, the points that were put forward by the representative, Mr Vedum, in favour of violence. I also agree with the analysis presented by the representative Gustavsen when it came to the question of contacts with this regime. It was also separately followed up by the representative Højbråten. Having diplomatic contact and dialogue is not just an instrument to contribute to consensus in the areas that can be agreed upon. It is also the international instrument for making strong decisions in the international community and in the UN Security Council. At the moment of the breakup of diplomatic relations, there is much less intervention, much less opportunity to collect information and to maintain the level of contact necessary to safeguard a wide range of interests. Therefore, first of all, I believe that it is not right for Norway to have a unilateral policy in this area; it is important to be part of a broad international opinion. Secondly, I believe it is important and right that Norway has an embassy in Iran and that Iran has an embassy in Norway. It is important for contacts between countries. It is true here: there are a number of areas in which we have expressed our view of the human rights situation in Iran through statements from the Norwegian side, but also through work in the UN. We have voted from Norway for the creation of a Special Rapporteur for Iran in the UN Human Rights Council just a few weeks ago. That decision expresses a broad international concern about the situation in Iran. Hopefully, this Special Rapporteur will provide better information on the realities of human rights in the country, so as to help improve the situation. We believe that the human rights situation affects almost all vulnerable groups in the population. We have prioritised a specific focus on the execution of minors, in particular cruel methods of execution and the situation of human rights defenders. But we also deal with other issues, such as religious and ethnic minorities, women and other groups. The EU sanctions against Iran, to which Norway has joined, intend to target the nuclear programme. So the very critical human rights situation is not part of the justification for these. However, Norway will continue to support the work of the international community to bring the nuclear issue forward. Let me end by saying that the method in this is to adopt very strict measures while the door to dialogue is open, while permanent members of the Security Council and Germany, the EU, can engage in talks with Tehran with a view to reaching a solution there. With regard to the situation raised by the representative Gitmark in Camp Ashraf, Norway has expressed its views on it and concerns that civilians are affected in what is a very special situation in a camp inside Iraq, where we hold Iraqi authorities responsible for the way they act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e570	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e573	I would first like to say that I am pleased with the clear reaction of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the situation in Camp Ashraf. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not mention Iran’s role in – to the extent – Iraq, but also in the rest of the Middle East. Does the Foreign Minister agree that Iran is playing a role far from being called constructive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e579	I agree. It has been mentioned by several representatives, and I can join it. Iran is active in several ways, including: by supporting groups militarily and politically to extend their political interests. One of the reasons why it is important to achieve a regional political solution in this region is to limit the type of instruments that we see in Iran's influence on groups like Hezbollah and Hamas, but also other groups in the region closer to Iran. Iran also has active interests in what is happening in the Gulf region. Yes, Iran also has interests to care for vis-à-vis other countries, but the way this is done, the way Iran seeks to interfere through such intermediaries, is a corollary to the high level of tension and something we distance ourselves from.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e589	I just want to comment on a few relationships. It is said by the representative Gustavsen that our proposal is a kind of discharge. What we're doing is giving direction and then leaving the government to come up with the measures in question, in respect of the fact that the government is exercising Norwegian foreign policy. We wanted a debate on the types of instruments. If it was interested, you could promote other types of instruments than the ones we're sketching. We have never talked about the closure of the Norwegian Embassy. When mention is made of taking home the ambassador: Iran was without an ambassador in Oslo for a long time until the current ambassador came into office a few months ago. Whether it was a deliberate political act or just a de facto act, one can discuss, but it is not entirely unknown that it is also happening between countries that have diplomatic relations and between countries that have dialogue. So to the claim that we generally want less dialogue. I'm taking away from it, but we want to look at what we're using the dialogue. At the end of the 1990s there was a general opening to Iran. They wanted to meet the reformer they thought they were going to see in Iran. This may have been true at the time, but since 1997–98, in particular, the human rights situation has not moved in the direction hoped for and thought. In recent years the screw has been tightened by the regime. Then we've tried to seek advice. Some time ago, the Foreign Affairs Committee met with Shirin Ebadi on these issues. I also met Peace Prize winner Ebadi in New York. She is one of those who has just talked about political boycotts. For they do not want a boycott that initially affects the population, but a boycott that affects the regime, and we fully agree with that. We respect that here we are now, this is the situation, but we're going to pursue the question, be alert and make sure that Norway holds a high tab when it comes to combating this regime, which we think needs redemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e604	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3422]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e620	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3423]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e638	Sudan's history is a history of war and conflict. The conflict between the north and the south has led to hundreds of years back. Sudan gained its independence in 1956, but has in time been affected by civil war. The conflict has largely been about the economic, political, social and cultural dominance of central government across the south, and the dividing lines go along ethnic, cultural, religious and economic lines. The first civil war lasted from 1955 to 1973, and the second, as we may know best, from 1983 to 2004–2005. The wars have hit hard. The last war drove as many as four million people away, and it is estimated that about two million died as a result of the conflict – not only because of the war itself, but also because of hunger and disease in its wake. The Darfur conflict, which broke out in 2003, led beyond two million people on the run. The people have had to pay a high price for all the conflicts and wars. After the last civil war between the north and the south, South Sudan was almost razed. Most of the years of travel, such as roads and railways, were worn out and destroyed. Food production was severely weakened. In addition, there was no public administration that worked properly when peace came. The referendum on an independent South Sudan in January was historic. 98.8 pst. by the people voted in favour of independence. There were major concerns in front of the public opinion about there being unrest. I think you could say it went surprisingly well. South Sudan will be recognised as a sovereign, independent state in July. Despite that there is a long way left to get the country on foot. For many years Norway has been very committed to Sudan both politically and economically, where peace and reconciliation have been important. Since the 1970s, Norway has played an active role in South Sudan and in particular through the voluntary organisations, such as the Church's Emergency Aid, the Red Cross and Norwegian National Aid. I want to commend these organizations for the important efforts they have made, and the work they do. That means a lot. Consider, for example: the work that Norwegian Public Aid has done in clearing roads and agricultural areas in the South Sudan for mines. It's meant a lot to individuals. Norway was at the heart of the peace process that took place in 2005. We were, among other things, also attends an international donor country meeting to prepare the repatriation work in South Sudan in 2004, and Norway has also been very active in Darfur. In 2007, Norway offered to place a section of the United Nations force, but was rejected by the Sudanese government. Norway has participated in the UN force in South Sudan, and we have used considerable aid. There are a lot of people who have worked a lot on this conflict to solve it. I want to name a lady and give her honor, and it is former development minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson, who has made a very important effort – I want to mention it. We have done a lot in the area of assistance. We have supported a wide range of projects. It's all about everything from supporting SPLM, Sudan People's Liberation Movement, we've contributed to the fight against corruption, we've been actively working on peace building and peace negotiations, and we've had a project on the control of small arms, and we've also had a lot of work on the humanitarian side, focusing on, among other things. education, water, sanitary conditions and health. Last year we spent 700 million. kr on assistance to Sudan, how much went through the UN system. It is well known the focus Norway has had on the management of petroleum resources, where both the Central Bureau of Statistics and the Oil for Development have been important in this context. There are large natural resources in South Sudan. It is important that they are managed in a sensible way. These include: on oil and gas, on gold and minerals. In addition, there has been a high potential in agriculture and food production. The last thing is important, although it's mostly oil and gas we're talking about in terms of natural resources. With regard to agricultural and food production, it is important for the country to have good legislation in place and an administration that does not allow it to be sold out. Norwegian Folkehelp has produced a report that shows that more than 80 pst. the areas of South Sudan have been privatised. There's a trend we see internationally, that international, Western companies buy up countries to use it for commercial purposes. I think this is an important thing we should focus on. I'm for companies investing in land, but it's important that it doesn't happen in a way that contributes to land theft, where people don't have access to important natural resources and are deprived of their livelihoods, and that could threaten food security. It is therefore important for South Sudan to have a good regulation of land investment. When I wanted to take up an interview about South Sudan, it was because I wanted to focus on and discuss what should happen in the future. When South Sudan finally gains its independence, it is a country with weak institutions that needs to be built up. It is crucial that the international community contribute to their construction. The work on the establishment of government structures has been well under way, including: Norway contributes. We also contribute to the implementation of a three-year development plan for South Sudan, and that is also important. But there's one thing I want to mention, which is also important, and that's that the SPLM gets drag help from the outside. It is the SPLM that will be central to the construction of the country and to the maintenance of the fragile peace between north and south. I also want to say in the end that it is important that we do not forget the north. I believe it is important that Norway continues to contribute there, so that we get a positive development also in North Sudan, because I think that is important if we are to have a peace that lasts. I look forward to the Foreign Minister's reflections on what Norway can do to bring about peace and good development both in the north and the south and in the region as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e668	Thanks to the interpellant for an important, current and wide-ranging question. Sudan has been a high priority in foreign and development policy for Norway for a long time and under changing governments. Here, we have a continuity, and there's been a wide expansion of the line. In particular, the exposure has been built around active peace and reconciliation work, where we were particularly involved in the negotiation of the North-South Peace Agreement in 2005. I agree with the recognition of former development minister Frafjord Johnson in that context. We have followed the implementation of this agreement, the CPA agreement it is called, closely over the last six years – a work that culminates now when South Sudan becomes an independent state on 9 July. The exposure is well debated here in Stortinget and in the major Norwegian voluntary organisations and academic communities, which also follow the situation in Sudan and this part of Africa. Active Norwegian foreign stations in this region and a large aid portfolio have, in combination with frequent contacts with the parties and several political visits to Khartoum and Juba, located Norway as one of the central international actors in the Sudan context. We participate in international forums for Sudan and work closely with the other troika countries of the United States and the United Kingdom. The cooperation here will become even more important in the period up to July 9th and I dare say, after. Eight times in the last year, the foreign ministers of the troika countries have issued joint opinions or letters on Sudan, which have helped to create new dynamism in the negotiation process between North and South. It is important that it is now not missed on the upstream side, if I can say so. The successful conduct of the referendum in South Sudan was uplifting, but there is no guarantee that peace is guaranteed. We support the work of the AU panel with former President Mbeki at the head, which facilitates the ongoing negotiations on the range of key issues. Such major issues include border regimes and the different security challenges associated with the establishment of two countries, the distribution of oil revenues, the management of the large debt burden, the establishment of a new currency in the south and the protection of citizens' rights. A peaceful co-existence between the south and the north will certainly be best served by the fact that as many of these outstanding questions have been addressed before the release. But the time is running out, and it's possible that several elements will be unsolved on July 9. Norway’s main message to the parties is that it is only by cooperating economically, politically and securityly that both can ensure peace and development in two sustainable countries. Sudan’s neighbouring country is also closely following developments and is committed to preventing a new North-South conflict, which would not only affect the civilian population in Sudan but also help destabilise the whole region and create major negative ring-effects in neighbouring countries. The most important thing Norway can do to ensure peace and development in the region is to continue our policy of actively contributing to a peaceful endgame in Sudan, using all our channels, having good, relevant input and a wide network of contacts within and outside the country. As far as state construction and social development are concerned, I fully agree with the inter-pellant that Norway has very special prerequisites for playing a central partner role in the south, but also for the north. But also neighbouring countries in the region and regional organisations such as the African Union – AU – the Arab League and, in particular, the United Nations and central countries such as China, the United States and the EU countries are important partners for Sudan. Norwegian aid is closely linked to the political commitment that has had the implementation of the peace agreement as a primary objective. This year, therefore, we have supported the implementation of the 2010 elections and the referendum, and that has been at the heart of us. In another sector, on the development of the oil sector and the allocation of oil resources, Norway has gained a significant role through our support over several years to both North and South authorities. Norwegian oil consultants are central to the negotiations for a new oil cooperation agreement even after the end of the CPA period. The Norwegian aid to Sudan for the fourth year was well worth 700 million. kr. A substantial part of the aid, 355 million. kr, channelled through the UN system. In addition, organisations receiving the most core support from Norway — UNDP, UNICEF and UNFPA — have large programmes both in the north and in the south. Well one third of this is humanitarian efforts both in the north, mainly in Darfur, and in the south. In January 2010, Minister for the Environment and Development Solheim signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the government of South Sudan on long-term strategic cooperation. South Sudan is primarily interested in Norwegian knowledge of the management of petroleum resources and their revenues. This is now taking its form through cooperation in the macro-economic field with the Ministry of Finance and Planning of South Sudan. Both the Central Statistical Agency and the Oil for Development are key partners here. This effort is also important to prevent and combat corruption in the south — a major and persistent problem. Norway has been very clear to its leadership that we expect them to take the fight against corruption seriously and to ensure that they are prosecuted for maladministration. The new state in the south has weak and vulnerable institutions. This is not a former colony that will now rule itself. It's a new state that will exist in a civil war country. Norway has turned its aid against institutional and capacity development, including outside the oil sector. An example: Together with, among others: UNDP has developed a programme to recruit civil servants and women from neighbouring countries to the South Sudanese administration. Norway cooperates closely with the established Norwegian organisations in Sudan, many of them with large and significant networks. The Church's Emergency Aid and Norwegian People's Aid have – in the light of their efforts over a number of years – a central place in the consciousness of the South Sudan. In addition, organisations such as the Refugee Aid and the Norwegian Red Cross have important programmes. The competence, continuity and work of organisations are very valuable, not least now during the construction of the civil society in South Sudan. As the interpellant rightly points out, South Sudan will continue to face major challenges after 9 July. But I want to make it clear that Norway will continue to be a central partner of the new state in the south and actively participate in international cooperation to ensure the further development and stability of the state. We must be realistic. There are no simple solutions, nor in the South Sudan. It will take time to build up the control unit. We need to have a long-term perspective on our efforts. There may be setbacks. A key challenge in the south will be security internally. We can already see that there are concerns in some areas. Good leadership that opens up broad and democratic participation in the Southern political processes becomes important. It also concerns the establishment of a well-functioning security sector under democratic control and a policy area of sufficient competence and capacity, which will be of great importance for the peaceful development of South Sudan in general and for the protection of civilians in particular. We now have an assessment of and how, on the Norwegian side, we can best support the work of the Sudanese authorities on precisely security sector reform. The role of the United Nations in South Sudan after 9 July will be important. The UN will continue to be widely involved through its development organisations and humanitarian organisations and with a new peace operation. Norway is involved in this discussion on the device of the role of the United Nations and on the mandate for a new operation. From our point of view, we have stressed that the mandate must be firmly anchored by the authorities in the south and that it must be realistic in terms of the resources put in place. We are participating with a dozen military staff officers and observers as well as eight police advisers in the ongoing UN operation in South Sudan. We are planning to continue military participation at the same level as today, while we will increase police participation by four advisers. At the same time, I would like to stress that much remains unclear about a future UN operation in the south. This is due in particular to unresolved issues between north and south, which will affect the configuration of a new operation, including the question of continued UN presence in the north. As has been pointed out, North Sudan too faces major challenges. After 9 July, the country's area will be reduced by one-third, and the country is at risk of losing large parts of its oil revenues. During this fragile transitional period, it is essential to contribute to the absence of economic collapse of the remaining parts of Sudan, which could lead to a new conflict. An agreement on continued cooperation in the oil sector is essential for economic survival both north and south. As mentioned above, Norway is the adviser in this area, and we are the only international adviser for both parties on oil issues. We have stressed the need to assure North Sudan that Norwegian support will continue even after South Sudan becomes independent. We cooperate with international partners that can contribute to economic stability and security, including developing strategies to address the debt burden and possible changes in the sanctioning regime. In this context, it is our message that the Sri Lankan authorities should make far more efforts to find a lasting solution to the conflict in Darfur and continue the development of democracy – with wide participation and better allocation of its resources – and respect fundamental human rights. Norwegian aid to the north, with emphasis on strategic oil cooperation, will continue to contribute to reconstruction in the most war-torn areas of the North Sudan, such as South Kordophan and Blue Nile, and continue to provide humanitarian support to particularly vulnerable groups, including refugees and internally displaced persons. Norway will also continue academic cooperation. This has been done for many decades and has provided a solid basis for knowledge about Sudan in Norway and many contact areas. Support for peace building through demobilisation and local peace building will also continue, while Norway is looking for opportunities to extend the scope of cooperation through involvement with Norwegian business and culture. In this review, I have given an idea of how Norway contributes to the important, but also very demanding, efforts to ensure a successful separation process and peaceful social development both north and south in Sudan, and how Norway also contributes to stability in the region. Sudan has nine neighbours. Ethiopia will, after a division, be a neighbour to both the north and the south, and how Sudan evolves south of the major changes further north, in North Africa, will, of course, have a major impact on conflicts that are closely linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e735	First, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer and for the interesting considerations he has about development and what Norway can contribute. I would like to agree with the importance that as many of the outstanding questions between the parties in the north and south are dealt with before the break-up, that is very important. But then you just have the time and the way. It's not long until July 9th, and it's urgent to get good solutions in place. But there will also be a weekday after July 9th. Building up a state almost from scratch is not easy. I think it makes sense for Norway to contribute to the competence where we can make a difference and where we can make the best possible contribution, such as the development of institutions, the development of legislation, the management of natural resources and the contribution to building security. Another element I want to bring in is the work against corruption, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs so far said. A state that is fragile will always have challenges in terms of corruption. Transparency International places Sudan as the seventh most suspected corrupt country in 2010. That's why I think it's important that international society helps build systems that can prevent it as much as possible. I also believe that NGOs play an important role in building civil society – getting democracy in place and a functioning state. I wish the Foreign Minister could say a little more about the role he thinks these can play in the future. I think it's important that we use all the channels we have to contribute to lasting peace, and here I think these are very central. The Minister for Foreign Affairs emphasises that cooperation — economic, political and security — can ensure lasting peace. I agree. A politically sustainable solution to the conflict does not come until the parties really trust each other and experience reciprocity. The fact that Norway is heavily involved in oil management is good and important. The fact that Norway is part of strategic oil cooperation and the agreement made by the Minister for the Environment and Development with the Government of the South on long-term cooperation can help us to use our expertise in the field of petroleum. The fact that the Central Bureau and the Oil for Development are inside, I mentioned in my main post is also important. I would like to hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs' reflections on possible challenges related to oil and gas activities. Where there are large natural resources, there are also major economic interests. There are examples of countries with weak institutions and weak legislation that have been hit hard because large international companies have taken care of there. If South Sudan is to have good economic development, natural resources must be managed in a way that benefits the people. Finally, I hope we can have a good debate here today. I saw a lot of people drawing on the list of speakers -- I'm happy to hear the different points of view. And once again, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e756	I too look forward to this debate. We get the opportunity to come back at the end of it. Let me just say, to the representative Hansen's question: Voluntary organisations, NGOs, play an important role. They're a lot of the starting point for Norwegian involvement. Civil society contact between this great country in Africa and Norway is a special story in which we build it. A lot of our contact network in the country has been built on these relationships, but it's important to say that we're going to appear here as a state, we're going to have a relationship with the north and the south, and we're not going to be dragged into the bonds that non-state actors have. We must therefore have a proper relationship with the dialogue with them. But they are important contributors and implementers of Norwegian development policies in the country and important for our access to information. The question of oil and gas, which the representative rightly raises, is large, demanding and complex. It concerns everything – including: who shall control the infrastructure. As you know, the oil goes from the south through the north to the port and to the international markets. During my last visit to Sudan, the discussion theme was: Can you maintain that infrastructure and get a reasonable share, so that both parties can benefit from it? Someone in the south is talking about a separate line that should be built from the south and out towards Kenya. It'll be very expensive, take a long time and obviously be a total change of strategy. So these questions are central. And when we know how important oil is to revenue and budgets both in the north and in the south, it is clear that the potential for significant destabilization in the event of a breakdown in this area is great. The second theme on which the representative was involved is corruption. And it is clear that where does the money go from this trade? Here I believe that Norway has good experience that we cannot easily see being copied. But I've seen our experts act on this, and I think that's the best thing to do in the world about how such questions can be solved both administratively and creatively – through different types of solutions. It's in this area, I think, Norway really can't do anything else. That is what we are trying to cultivate, and it is also being respected by the African countries and the other troika countries. Oil deals with the classic issues related to petroleum in other contexts to which the representative points. It is quite specific and perhaps more dominant in the economy of the north and south than in any other country. The way revenue is managed will be very important for the legitimacy of the government that comes to the south. That's why we're so focused on it, as well as following the process broadly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e769	Norway has played an important role in Sudan for many years. In view of this, Norway has a special position in Sudan. On 9 July 2011 will be an important and very special day. A new State is hereby established on the African continent. The sub-division in Africa has a special history. In essence, we can say that the boundaries are largely drawn by the old colonial powers, and that many of the boundaries are therefore also fragile and sometimes problematic. Therefore, caution has been shown in drawing new borders, one has shown caution in establishing new countries. Now it happens, with South Sudan's independence in three months, and that's absolutely right. As I said, Norway has a special position in South Sudan. In the early 1970s, the NRK sent a TV team to South Sudan. Their report alerted considerable attention and helped quite clearly to focus on the regime in Khartoum. At that time, there was still war in Sudan. Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Frydenlund and the Norwegian Government considered it appropriate to contribute to development in Sudan and in particular in South Sudan. So this is almost 40 years ago, and we have a proud and long story to show. The Church's emergency aid was initially put on the job and did a solid work in South Sudan over a decade. Seinere became Norwegian Folkehelp the dominant Norwegian player in South Sudan. I do not hesitate to say that Norwegian Folk Help has played and plays a very central role in South Sudan. Norwegian People's Aid had a very close relationship with South Sudanese leader John Garang, and they took a clear position in the conflict. Some have criticised Norwegian People's Aid for this in retrospect, but it has turned out that doing what Norwegian People's Aid did was quite right and decisive. Norwegian Folkehelp worked closely up to John Garang and Juba, while Norway and the U.D. had contacts with both Juba and Khartoum. Norwegian People's Aid did and makes a solid effort in South Sudan and has, among other things, Substantial funding was provided from the USAID and from other countries, as well as from Norway. The seaworthiness of South Sudan on 9 July must not be the end of Norway's commitment. That's when it all starts. So a little bit about the situation in South Sudan today. We must never forget the starting point, namely that most of South Sudan was devastated when the last war ended in 2004. More than 2 million people were killed or had died as a result of the war. Maybe as many as 4 million people – i.e. About half the population of South Sudan — displaced from their homes and refugees either in their own country, in neighbouring countries or elsewhere in the world. It was probably not a single family in South Sudan who had not paid dearly in view of the suffering a war causes people. With this dramatic backdrop, it's not just to start the preparations to establish and govern a country. The only cancers that were and are close to elements of such necessary competence and position are the SPLM, Sudan People’s Liberation Movement. I think we just have to establish that the situation is like this. The SPLM has made considerable efforts since peace in 2004–2005 and the SPLM must be further supported. In reality, no one else can be the leading force in the construction of the new state. I see that this can take place on certain fundamental challenges as SPLM now evolves into a political party, but then we have to understand the political picture in South Sudan and think about the country's history. No one other than the SPLM can get in the way of the new state formation. Then there will certainly be several parties in South Sudan, and then I mean parties that are not controlled from Khartoum. So finally, let's continue the important work Norway has had in South Sudan. Norway has to keep up the political momentum after so many years in South Sudan. [[President clubs]] The commitment of Norway shall not end at seaworthiness on 9 July. [[President clubs]] That's when it really starts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e790	The representative's involvement must end when speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e793	I also think that there is reason to thank the representative Eva Kristin Hansen for bringing up a topical and very important topic in the United Kingdom with his interpellation and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough presentation of the Norwegian positions and plans in the future regarding Norway's work in and in relation to the Sudanese states. South Sudan is approaching some sort of South Sudanese on 17 May. Of course it'll be celebrated and cheered. But it's probably also time for a little thought. At the risk of being seen as a hitchhiker, I will address a few difficult issues, which are not only difficult for the population and the authorities of the Sudanese states, but also for us as an aiding nation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to the Council of State Solheim. It reminds us that there may be different communications from the government a little depending on who you are talking to. In an interview at the Defence Forum some time back, Solheim claimed that the conflict in South Sudan was justified in man-made climate change. When you think that the conflict has been going on since the 1300s, it seems a little strange to many people. But enough about it and over to the realities. I think it's important now that we remember the developments we're facing especially in South Sudan, not least in terms of ethnic and religious tolerance, and that we get a state that takes into account that the South Sudanese population is composed of different groups both ethnic and religious. I also think we should notice developments in corruption. The interpellant said that Sudan is the seventh most corrupt state in the world, and is no. 172 of 179 on the list of Transparency International, where No. 1 is the least corrupt, and 1 is the least corrupt, and 1 is the least corrupt. 179, which is Somalia, is the most corrupt. So it's a culture of corruption that's tightly embedded in everything that's going on in all of Sudan. This is a huge problem. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Norwegian anti-corruption experts are impressive in their work in Sudan. The organization Global Witness is not quite as excited. In a 2009 report, the organisation claims that Norway’s Oil for Development Programme in Sudan does not have sufficient mechanisms to ensure that the money does not fire during conflict and corruption. With what is behind it it will be useful if the government keeps the Stortinget informed about the development of the new state of South Sudan as regards the development of corruption. It is also important to follow developments in South Sudan in the fight against corruption, not only in relation to industrial development, but also in civil society and the state institutions to be established. So I'm among those who are enjoying the development of South Sudan. A detachment does not necessarily mean that those who have detached have done so on the basis of a unison motivation for democracy and human rights and the fight against corruption. Unfortunately, not least in the continent we're talking about here, but the rule rather than the exception that a overturned dictator is very often replaced by a new one. But we hope that there is reason to hope that the development of South Sudan will be successful, and that South Sudan can emerge as an example for other African nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e808	The Nile splits Sudan to the east and west. Now we're just months away from a political distinction between north and south. I think it's about time. Unfortunately, Sudan has shown itself on one side with dictatorship, a lack of respect for human rights and a lack of respect for the wishes of its own citizens. Now the judgment of history awaits what is happening both in the north and in the south in terms of political rights. History shows at least one place between one and two million killed in two civil wars – 200,000 killed in Darfur – common to the two are huge refugee flows. From 2005, on the other hand, there has been a relatively stable government; at least there has been a lack of acts of war. Let me mention some of the challenges that, as I see it, lie there in relation to South Sudan's new status from July this year. It is still a significant area that has not had a referendum, Abyei. It is an area that should have decided on election day whether to go north or south. I hope that vote will go just as well as the vote on a formal release in the south did, and that it will also lead to recognition both from the north and from the south, regardless of what becomes the election result there. In the same breath, I would also like to say that it is very important that you put in place a final border map and that you agree on that border map. Sudan has a President, Omar al-Bashir, who is to be commended for the way he dealt with the referendum and, at the same time, deserves an in-depth search for his role in previous acts of war, not least the genocide that has taken place in Darfur. It is extremely important that people who commit criminal acts, regardless of the level at which they are responsible for the actions. Especially important is the signal power in the case of heads of state. With regard to the same Omar al-Bashir, there is also every reason to focus on his lack of understanding of the institutions of democracy and on how a fundamental respect for human rights actually works. Then I am glad that at least one sentence or two from previous speakers came in, linked to the importance that South Sudan will have more parties, that this will be a multi-party regime that will be democratically founded, with a central parliament. We have stories – a lot of stories – about organizations that have started as guerrilla warriors for one thing, that end up in political parties, and that end up being the only party in a dictatorship. Zimbabwe is an example of that, with ZANU-PF, which in the 1980s became an association of ZANU and ZAPU, and which was then the state-supporting party and the only party until MDC was founded in the mid-1990s. Some of the same can be said about the ANC in South Africa. The ANC still has a fundamental role in the South African country, and part of its upswing is based not only on politics but also on history. I think it is extremely important that people vote from the political future, and not from what the organisation has done in the past. In the case of oil, it is again extremely important to agree on both how revenue is distributed and how the oil is to be distributed, whether it is done through Sudan, which I believe will be a good arrangement, precisely because it brings the two countries closer together – it is this coexistence that is extremely important – or whether South Sudan finds to go further with an agreement with Kenya. When it comes to corruption, a lot of people have thought about it. With regard to the extreme weakness of both institutions and weak institutions, it is also important that Norwegian assistance helps to support them. The same applies to the construction of law and order. Let me conclude by saying that expectations are fundamental and enormous. It's extremely important that we help limit the expectations that lie there. This is not done overnight in the case of state construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e827	Thank you to the interpellant, Eva Kristin Hansen, for raising an important and very topical matter and thank you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good answer, which I basically agree with. I also share what I read as the main estate, first of all that the challenges are enormous, that one must have a very long-term perspective in relation to South Sudan, but also that Norway has been particularly central here, and that we must not miss the rise, as he put it, but still retain it as a heavy investment, which is widely agreed in Norwegian foreign policy. Norway has a special role in two ways – or dimensions – one is that it is a country that we have extensive knowledge and competence built around in public Norway, in Organisational Norway, it is Norwegian People's Aid, Church Emergency Assistance or others, but also in terms of research capacity and knowledge other than that. Secondly, there are few places in the world where Norway means as much as in South Sudan, and there are few international conflicts and issues that the leaders, the central actors in the world, are so interested in talking to Norway about, like South Sudan, so it also – I think – has an interest perspective for us to maintain a central and heavy stake in relation to South Sudan. Very Card: There must be some central elements in it. The only thing is to continue with the heavy aid efforts we have in the country, and to have a long-term perspective on it. There are all the good reasons for this when it comes to South Sudan, but also to continue in relation to North Sudan. Secondly, one must continue to be active when it concerns the security sector. I'm glad we're going to continue the commitment we now have there. If there is a new UN operation in the south and there is interest in Norwegian participation, I assume that the government is prepared to participate in it. Thirdly, I agree very much when it comes to the issues of oil, which are so central and difficult, that we should be heavily involved in the time that comes. I think there are very good reasons to say that we have important competences, which play a role. The last thing, I think, is actually the relationship of cooperation between north and south, because there we have in our contacts over time in the north and south something to do. For example, in the question of oil – that is a good example – it is impossible to imagine any solution for South Sudan and North Sudan, a peaceful development, without somehow becoming some of the whole issue of oil, and how South Sudan should manage its resources. But also the issues of cooperation and trust around an agreement between the north and the south are very central. I will once again give praise to the interpellant and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e840	Let me join the thanks that have become the interpellant in part, and also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is a most timely question to ask how Norway contributes and can contribute to peaceful political development throughout Sudan in the future. The January referendum showed an overwhelming majority in South Sudan for independence and the establishment of a country of its own. The stated objective is to declare this summer's independence, preferably on the anniversary of the Sudanese peace agreement, on 9 July, an agreement that several people have had and that, not least our then development minister, Hilde Frafjord Johnson, made a strong contribution. With the great tensions and many unresolved questions between the north and the south, it is clear that we are in a few crucial months for the country's development. It quickly became clear in the New Year, and I therefore wrote on behalf of the Christian People's Party a letter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Environment and Development on 28 January of this year, calling for an offensive plan for the partner role that Norway can take on around the birth of the new state. In their reply in February, the ministers responsible did not have many concrete promises to make, but could confirm that ‘the government is working towards concreteising the content of a partnership with South Sudan’. There is a significant risk of armed conflict, including: due to the situation in conflict areas such as Abyei and Darfur and to the serious consequences for stability, the social economy and the life situation of the population in both the North and South Sudan. In this crucial historical phase, Norway can play an important role because our country has developed knowledge, contact and trust both at the authorities in Khartoum and in Juba over a long time. Norway’s special position is the result of a long-term aid effort, including: through organisations such as the Church’s Emergency Aid and Norwegian Public Aid, and the building of competences in Norwegian research communities and a long-standing contacts with the parties in authority, culminating in Norway’s active role in reaching the Peace Agreement in 2005. South Sudan needs extensive assistance to succeed in civil nation-building and the establishment of central administration and local government structures, with good governance as its main objective. South Sudan is unilaterally dependent on oil revenues. The professional management of resources and the fight against the major corruption problem are crucial. Distribution between north and south of oil resources and oil revenues is another key point, which several have been involved in. Development of infrastructure, inter alia: roads, must also be provided to make society work. Over a long period of conflict, resources have been widely used for defence purposes, and school and health have been neglected. The development of basic welfare services and industry calls for extensive international development cooperation. The time perspective is critical. We're in critical months. Delayed and weak contributions from the world community can quickly have a very high price. In my letter in January, I asked the government, in an appropriate form, to present to the Stortinget a plan for Norway's efforts, with proposals for the responsibilities and tasks that Norway can assume in international cooperation to ensure a successful government division and peaceful development, especially in South Sudan. It faces very special challenges of building a new and independent state. With regard to many countries Norway cooperates, it can be noted that we are in a special situation and where Norway has a special responsibility. But I know very few countries where Norwegian history is like it is in Sudan, especially in South Sudan, where the breadth of Norwegian society has built commitment and competence and involvement, and where Norway has also played a political role in the peace solution at the bottom of the state. On that basis, I would argue that this matter deserves political attention from the government, which is beyond the usual, and political attention and follow-up from the Storting, which is beyond the usual. In the light of the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs – which is good enough – it turns out that the government has come a little further than in January in concreteising the content of a partnership with South Sudan. But I wish for a more offensive plan, a more holistic plan, which not only has the centre of gravity in oil, which is important enough, but which takes into account the full scope of the construction of a social structure, a central and local government agency and basic health and school services for the population. It is urgent, and Norway has a historic responsibility to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e869	I think this has been a very interesting debate. The debate has shown that there is a great deal of commitment across the parties to the importance of a peaceful solution between North and South and of a positive development in South Sudan. I can imagine commenting on some articles, because I think it came out very well in this debate. First to the representative Sverre Myrli, who spoke very warmly about the role of Norwegian People's Aid in South Sudan: I just want to say that very much. Norwegian People's Aid has been doing a great job and has been there for very many years. They deserve tribute for the work they've done and for the presence they've had. Then the representative Myrli also brought up the Sudan People's Liberation Movement, and that it is important to support the SPLM in the future. I fully agree with that. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark pointed out that multi-party rule is important, and it is difficult to disagree with it. But now it's SPLM that's kind of the great force in society. Support from the outside is important so that there is a democratic development in which the parties can grow in the future. I believe that South Sudan is in a difficult period, but that it is still important to support the good forces in order to get a positive development. Myhre, Skovholt Gitmark and also the Højbrätt were in for corruption. I think the fight against corruption is absolutely crucial if we are to have a positive development, because corruption is so destructive in how a country gets it in the future. The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out that Norway is actually making an effort, and that we will follow it closely. The representative Myhre thought it was important to keep getting feedback on how things are going, and I agree with that. It's always important to focus on anti-corruption. The board Vegar Solhjell noted that there are few places Norway means so much, and the core of the commitment that, among other things, is in this room, is that there is a great commitment in Norway to South Sudan and for Sudan as a whole – i.e. for peace throughout the country – and that it is important to have contacts both north and south in order to have a positive development. Finally, Mr. Dagfinn, the Højbräten who calls for a more offensive policy and greater attention: I believe that the debate today shows that there is a need for greater attention on the South Sudan also from the Stortinget side, and that is exactly why I took up this interpellation. I also believe that the Foreign Minister's reply shows that Norway is actually following up what has been done over many years, namely to give strong support to the people of South Sudan. We have «a proud and long story», as Sverre Myrli so well said. It's an enormous commitment to the matter, and it's going to be exciting to follow developments in the future. It is important that Norway is present when everyday life starts on 9 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e888	First, I would like to say that I think this is a new illustration that these interactions are important in order to be able to highlight conflicts, clarify attitudes and get a lot of good insights. A few comments: I agree with what I believe is the broad consensus in the Chamber that Norway should be committed, and use our contacts as best possible for peace and cooperation in the region. To the representative Myhre who was concerned that some sources thought that oil for development did not have enough mechanisms to deal with corruption in the south: I would say that in isolation that is correct. We don't have the keys to prevent it. But what I'm quite sure is that we're sitting on some contributions that can make the probability a little less likely, make the situation a little less dark, give some more knowledge, and with some more experience in how to handle this type of income flows, which can make the probability of extensive corruption a little less. This is about having a realistic view of what we can do, but in no way is it talking down the unique Norway that sits with it. We don't have the power to push forward a scheme for the management of oil revenues in the south, but we're being listened to, and have the slightly unique position that we're now being listened to well in the north on these issues. So to the representative Højbrätten who has been a good driver in this case, also with the letter he mentions, where he asks for a plan. I think we fully agree on the main elements of that plan. We haven't spent a lot of time formulating a programme that's been pushed up and published, but I can assure you that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we have regular collections at political level, both at foreign and development level, to support the areas of activity we have, and to be focused on the future. For the Minister of Foreign Affairs, cooperation in the troika, the play against the two principal places, the African Union, has been an important channel, while the Minister of Development has focused a lot on the Norwegian aid mechanism. It's about being able to complete the second is good in the areas where we have experience and competence. Finally, I would like to say that I think there are a few countries that have this kind of commitment to Sudan that we have. We're going to be happy and look at as a resource that we have this commitment, but we shouldn't be led to believe that Norway is sitting with cards here that can determine the situation in Sudan. That's why it's very important that we have the ability to play with the others who have a greater degree of direct influence. Our analysis has been that it is important that there is African leadership, that the African Union is in charge, that neighbouring countries such as Ethiopia are in close contact, and that we maintain the motivation of countries like the United States and the United Kingdom. In addition to what Norway can do, I think it's very much about what we can trigger. It is likely that in areas of Norwegian assistance the highest per capita. But because we're few inhabitants, it's not necessarily the highest in the world, collectively. So being a catalyst and helping others to make an effort is an important part of the strategy we have to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e903	That being the case, it is no. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e917	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3423]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e933	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3423]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e949	The President has reason to believe that Mr Bård Hoksrud wants the floor – the representative does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e952	The matter was duly and thoroughly debated in Stortinget on 4 April. This applies, of course, to the implementation of the DLD Data Storage Directive. On behalf of the parties Progress Party, Socialist Left Party. The Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will present the following proposals: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted.’ Note: ‘The legislative proposal should be deposited.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e965	This means, in practice, that when we come to the end of today’s meeting, we will have a trial of reality – this applies to the second time that we have legal proceedings. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3423]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e983	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3423]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e999	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3423]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1017	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1036	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1054	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1072	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1090	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1108	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1128	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1146	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1164	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1182	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1200	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1208	Then we're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1232	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take action against the regime in Iran, which intends to hit the authorities of the country and clearly signal Norway’s departure from the policy of the current regime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1238	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1281	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1305	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1313	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. There is a vote on the proposal by the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The legislative proposal should be deposited.’;» The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Right intend to vote against. The voting boards showed that there were 60 votes against and 45 votes in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.56.52]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1332	Sorry, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1337	If there's only one, we have to be able to adjust the protocol. The representative tendon is registered with a vote in favour, which was the intention. The rule of law 46 has thus been rejected, and the Bill passed on the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1347	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1355	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1363	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party made at the meeting of the Stortinget on 4 April 2011: ‘The size defers the possible implementation of the Data Storage Directive to the revision of the EU.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1383	There is a vote on proposals from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party made at the Stortinget meeting on 4 April 2011: ‘The size assumes that, if the Data Storage Directive is introduced, an evaluation submitted to the Stortinget shall be carried out at the latest 3 years after its entry into force including the consequences of changes to the EU DLD and changes to the EU Data Protection Act.’; [[DLD]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1402	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at the Stortinget meeting on 4 April 2011: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for strengthening the monitoring capacity of the PST and the Oslo Police.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1421	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at the Stortinget meeting on 4 April 2011: ‘The government is asking for review of the Criminal Procedures Act §§ 216 a-216 d, 216 m and the Police Act § 17 d-e and for proposals for changes that lower the threshold for monitoring potential terrorists.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1440	There is a vote on proposals made at the Stortinget meeting on 4 April 2011: «The Government asks the Government to add the agreement as it is in the Inst. 275 L for the purpose of their work on this case complex.» [[2010-2011]] The President draws attention to the fact that the Labour Party and the Right are behind the proposal, and therefore assumes that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1461	There is a vote on proposals made by the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 4 April 2011: ‘The government is asking for legislative proposals that restrict access to the provision of traffic data, similar to the proposals and amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act §210(b) and 210(c) and new § 118(a) and 210(d) proposed in Prop. 49 L [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1480	There is a vote on proposals made by the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 4 April 2011: ‘The government is asking the government to launch a needs assessment as soon as possible to look at how different units in the police, including especially Kripos and PST, can combat serious crime with digital tools, with the existing homes and tools provided by the law. The study should focus in particular on the resources in terms of competence and the economy needed to make the situation satisfactory. The government is asked to follow up on the results of such an investigation of needs at the latest in proposals for the 2012 government budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1501	There is a vote on proposals made by the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 4 April 2011: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals requiring the police to keep sufficient records and statistics on the use of secret coercive agents, including communication control and communication data, so as to allow better ex post evaluation of methodology.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1520	There is a vote on proposals made by the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 5 April 2011: «The government is asked to propose as soon as possible that the audit thresholds be calculated on a consolidated basis, in order to see the turnover, balance sheet total and the total number of annual works of companies controlled by the same ownership. The purpose is also to exempt small group parent companies from the audit obligation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1539	There is a vote on proposals made by the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 5 April 2011: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the audit obligation for partnerships with more than five employees and less than five million employees. crowns in turnover shall be cancelled.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1558	There is a vote on proposals made by the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 5 April 2011: ‘The government is asked to carry out a critical review of special certification requirements in order to identify whether the requirements are properly designed and adequately justified in the light of the removal of the auditor’s obligation for small limited liability companies.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-11.ana.ud1976e1762	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
