ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e26	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Morten Højlund on leave from 30 November to 5 December – both in order to take part in the election of the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE during the elections to the National Assembly of Russia by the Group of the Progressive Party on the leave of the representative Karin S. Woldseth from 30 November to 2 December in order to take part in the election of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe during the elections to the National Assembly of Russia by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Sick leave of the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde from 30 November to 2 December in order to take part in the election of the European Parliamentary Assembly of the Council in the election to the National Assembly of the Russian National Assembly from 30 November onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Committee on Health leave of the representative Vigdis Giltun from 30 November until 30 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Tone LiljerothFor Hordaland County: Torcil ÅlandFor Oslo: Sylvi ListhaugFor Telemark County: Odin Adelsten BohmannFor Østfold County: Erlend Wiborg
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e88	Tone Liljeroth, Torkil Åmland, Sylvi Listhaug, Odin Adelsten Bohmann and Erlend Wiborg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e100	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e107	Today I choose to ask questions to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has rightly expressed great concern over the economic turmoil in the EU over a long time. We also note that the economic turmoil gives rise to some social unrest in this regard. We record that the Minister of Labour has been visiting Brussels to ask for a derogation so that Spanish and Greek workers can come to Norway and work under Spanish and Greek wages. We lost the matter of day money. Now, an EU citizen can claim a day’s pay after a day’s work in Norway. We are increasingly exporting billions of social security benefits. From 1998 to 2008, it doubled from 2.2 billion. DKK to SEK 4,3 billion. kr – most of course for Nordics who live abroad, but 34 pst. of these exports of social security benefits are linked to short-term stays in Norway. There will be a lot of alarm messages. It is said that up to 500 million people now have the opportunity to obtain the right to Norwegian welfare goods. The Brochmann committee has pointed this out in many contexts. The short version of the Brochmann Committee is that Norwegian welfare systems are under pressure. Rapid provision of well-being and export opportunities for labour migrants from EEA countries increases the pressure on many schemes. My question to the Prime Minister is: When you focus on and prepare for the economic turmoil in the EU to also strike Norway, will you have the same focus on the increased pressure on the Norwegian welfare system and on our welfare performance?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e122	First, I would like to thank the representative Sandberg for addressing an important issue – the issue of the economic crisis in Europe and the importance it can have for Norway in terms of labour migration. With regard to the economic crisis in Europe, the government is very careful to monitor developments in both Europe and Norway in order to be able to act quickly depending on its response. The question is not whether Norway is being hit, but the question is how strongly Norway is affected by the economic downturn in Europe. We have already seen that some businesses are struggling as a result of economic problems in Europe, and we must be prepared to do so to a greater extent. Our main response to this is to keep order in the Norwegian economy and implement targeted measures, as we did, among other things. with a new state export guarantee scheme we launched for 30 billion. NOK a few days ago. In the case of social security schemes, I am first of all concerned with stressing that there is a requirement – it is not just to come to Norway and receive social security schemes. When, for example: in the case of unemployment benefits, it is that you must have worked it up in the country from which you come, and then be registered unemployed here before you can get it. But I agree that there is a problem, whether it concerns cash support or other arrangements. One of the reasons why we set up the Brochmann Committee was just going through a rather complicated regulatory framework in the EU and Norway and looking at possible areas where there could be an unfortunate outcome. Now we're going through it, and we're going to look at the necessary changes/adjustments where we think it's necessary. Essentially, it is positive for Norway that people want to come to Norway to work. So now we are talking about labour immigration from our neighbouring country in Europe. So as long as we have the EEA Agreement, it's free access for other Europeans to get to Norway. A major reason why we have had good economic development in Norway is that many have come and worked here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e133	I thank you for your answer. It is clear that we share the view that it is positive that employees from our neighbouring country are seeking to come to Norway to find work. But what is now reflecting a little bit of the situation is that people flee the country of origin because of the fear of debt crisis and job losses. This does not mean that there are jobs and waiting for everyone in Norway, but it is clear that this has also become a significant growth. Only from Greece have an increase of 82 psts been recorded. of those applying for a tax card in Norway, from Spain, there is an increase of 33 pst. and from Italy 6 pst. So it is clear that this will be a challenge in the future in terms of both social security benefits and the obligations we have under the EEA Agreement. But I interpret the Prime Minister as the government is working on this, and I hope you will have a dialogue with the Storting about the challenges that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e140	That's right. The government will go through, look at and work on these issues. And as I say, it's one of the main issues in the Brochmann Committee, which the government just reduced to see if Norwegian welfare schemes can turn out unlucky in relation to labour immigration. But again, let me underline what I see as the main point: that labour immigration to Norway has helped make Norway a richer country, both economically and culturally. We are talking about labour immigration from our European neighbouring countries – very many from northern European countries – and those who may come from Greece or Spain come mainly to work in this country. I recently saw a look at two out of three new jobs in the Oslo region being occupied by people from other countries. Without labour immigration, Norway had been a poor country and had less capacity to finance welfare schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e147	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e150	As the Prime Minister is also aware, the situation in Europe today is that unemployment is increasing. A number of European countries are now embarking on major welfare reforms, with a reduction in welfare benefits. This leads to a great deal of unrest, which Sandberg's representative was in, and which means that many Europeans may want to leave their country and look for happiness in another EEA country to get a job. From this point of view, Norway will be one of the countries to which it will come. It is positive to come to Norway and take part in the labour market. But it also challenges, with increased pressure on the export of welfare services. The Prime Minister says he wants to come back and go through the report of the Brochmann Committee. My question is: does the Prime Minister want to take an initiative towards the EU and renegotiate the EEA Agreement so that we can continue to ensure good Norwegian welfare performance and labour immigration without leading to increased pressure on performance?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e157	Firstly, the starting point is that all lots on the Stortinget have joined the EEA Agreement. This means that all people living in the EEA area in Europe have the right to move freely between the different countries of Europe and to seek employment. It is the Advance Party for, it is the Workers' Party for, and it has all the other parties on the Stortinget joined. What we are concerned about is to avoid the misuse of Norwegian welfare schemes. But we are not concerned with preventing people from taking jobs in other countries in Europe. And, as I said, it's been good for Norway. It contributes to economic development and growth in Norway. Norway had stopped without people from other countries who had worked in our country. Renegotiation of the EEA Agreement is not relevant, but dialogue with the EU on individual directives, the practice and handling of individual provisions is absolutely topical. So let's keep going. A fundamental problem may be that you need to put a little less emphasis on cash transfers and more emphasis on services and activity, because it cannot be exported.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e168	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e171	The Prime Minister referred to a media release he had recently seen. It was in the Evening Post today. ‘2 out of 3 new Oslo jobs will go to non-residents’, it says. At the same time, the population statistics of the SSB have shown that the population of Norway is declining to 112 municipalities. But in over 400 of the country's 430 municipalities, there is a net immigration, or migrant workers who come and settle. It also means that District Norway is completely dependent on immigrants. That's good. The Prime Minister stresses that the economic crisis can also take place in Norway. Then it is important that unemployed workers can increase their skills while unemployed and learn better Norwegian. But you can't today. If you take Norwegian training as an unemployed person, you lose the right to a daily allowance. The exception is a few AMO courses in Oslo and Trondheim. Will the government open up jobless immigrants throughout the country to Norwegian training when they are unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e179	Aggravating governments have been concerned that ordinary education should be financed in the ordinary way through the State Loan Fund, and that the basic principle we have had in Norway is not undermined: If you are under education, you must find yourself financing your education through loans and scholarships. Then you have had some relaxations on it, among other things. within any of the labour market measures. We're willing to consider just where those boundaries go, but to challenge the main principle, I'm very afraid, because I think that's going to undermine the line of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e186	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e189	I want to go back to the second part of the economic crisis in Europe, which is the consequence it has for Norwegian jobs in different sectors of activity here in our own country. We now see that we have problems in wood processing, in the aluminium industry, in the car industry, in fish exports and in the tourism industry, where the European economic crisis has a direct impact on both Norwegian workers and many Norwegian communities. So the Prime Minister referred to the targeted action that had been taken on export finance. My question is: for those affected in the industries I mentioned here, what targeted measures will the government take for these industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e196	I think what's going to be the main challenge for Norway in months to come is that we're going to see a two-part Norwegian economy. Large parts of the Norwegian economy and business are going to go very well. This applies, inter alia, to: protected sector, likely construction, oil-related industry and public sector. Then there will be single industries where we get big problems. The challenge is then that it is not just to increase general demand in the economy, because it can make it worse for the industries that are struggling, which are hit by increased interest rates, if we spend too much money. There is also, of course, limited what we can do by buying aluminium or buying paper and keeping non-profitable businesses going. What we're doing is, first of all, keeping the economy in order. It at least dampens the pressure on the competitive sector. We are helping with export financing through the new State Export Guarantee Facility. In addition, of course, we have such things as labour market measures and conversion grants to municipalities that need to be extra hard hit, and there are separate guidelines for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e201	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e204	I intend to stay about the same area as Per Sandberg. Initially, what do changes in Europe, possible labour movements, mean for Norway? My starting point is that this is both a challenge and not least a great opportunity for the Norwegian economy. The period from 2006 to 2008 was marked by the fact that we could increase activity in the Norwegian economy because we had many immigrants. We did it without getting a strangely increased price pressure at that time. Immigrants have an important role to play in developing the Norwegian economy in the years to come. But we also know from experience that when we got work immigrants in the 1970s and early 1980s, it led to further problems because we were unable to convert these workers into a changed Norwegian labour market. If we look at the unemployment figures for August this year, almost 10,000 immigrants from European countries were unemployed in Norway. 15 pst. of the totally unemployed had their origins from other countries. My question to the Prime Minister is, when we have so many people here, who are not at work, but who have worked out their rights, what strategy will the government set up to ensure that we can make good use of that workforce in sectors where we need labour? There are sectors in Norway where we will need labour in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e215	Firstly, I am pleased that Solberg's representative also sees the opportunities for people to come to Norway. Basically, it is a recognition to Norway that people from our neighbouring country – we are not talking about countries far away, but in Europe – want to come to our country. Norway had not gone around and had been a poor country if we had not had Swedes to work in the retail trade, hotel and restaurant, if we had not had Poles to build houses, dwellings and facilities here in the country, or if we had not had Romanian yard workers and many others coming from Europe. That's our common starting point. The most important thing we do to prevent people who come to the country from becoming unemployed – it is neither them nor we serve – is to keep the general unemployment low and employment high. We did that. It is true that unemployment increased somewhat in 2008-2009, employment also fell slightly, but now, in the last year, employment has increased again, so that we now have the highest level of people working in Norway. Private sector growth has also been strong in the last year, with 28 000 more employees in private enterprises in one year being impressive figures. Then, of course, we're going to try to get the unemployed back to work quickly. It's about the things we do in general, in general, like the labour market measures. I have a great deal of faith in building bridges back into working life for those who are going out of work, and we know that labour market measures and labour market training are not least an offer to many with a foreign background coming to our country. All we can do for integration, free core time, Norwegian training and other measures that contribute to integration also help to increase employment and the ability to succeed in the labour market. Then it's also a little bit about attitudes. It's probably still the case, both in the private and public sectors, that you hesitate to hire people who have names and backgrounds that are slightly different from the typical Norwegian ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e226	The challenge is that we in Norway lack a strategy for how this group is better integrated into Norwegian society. I've spent time meeting many Poles in the last year, and many of them say that they have little contact with Norwegian society because, among other things, they have. speaking too bad Norwegian. They work in jobs where they have managers who are Polish – and they do not come in. We have a new integration challenge, and my challenge to the government is to create a strategy for integrating the immigrants from Europe in a better way than today. One of the measures to be taken has been mentioned earlier by Trond Helleland, namely to ensure that Norwegian training is an obligation when you are on leave, not that you may be allowed to do so, but that you get an obligation, because then you will have an opportunity to change. The second is that we need to do something about the education system in Norway, in order to make it easier to rebuild education so that you can use your home education in Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he take the challenge of creating a strategy for integrating the immigrants who have arrived?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e237	I think it is a bit strong to say that we need a strategy to ensure that those who come to our country come to work when we have lower unemployment in Norway among immigrants than in other countries in the total population. It is also strong to say that we lack a strategy when unemployment is now clearly lower than it was every year during the previous government, with financial crises outside the world, while it was not from 2001 to 2005. It is also strange to say that we lack a strategy when we have the highest number of employees, including in private companies, in Norway ever. A significant part of this growth is due to the fact that non-residents coming to Norway from Europe get these jobs, become integrated and get into work. Then it's not that we can't get even better, even though we're better than other countries and better than we were before. This government is busy doing it even better. This means that we need to have an open mind to look at new measures and instruments, also related to training, but I am still concerned that we should not undermine the principle of study funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e246	Four follow-up questions are raised – first by the representative Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e249	Many of those who come to Norway to work will need to acquire additional qualifications in order to maintain their relationship with the labour market. At the same time, it is a fact that Norwegian enterprises and the Norwegian public sector have a large and growing need for skilled labour. Then we need an education system that relates to this, and professional and vocational training is no exception. For non-resident workers who want to work in Norway, the language may be a major barrier to taking a professional letter. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Will the government facilitate the possibility of taking a letter in English?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e257	That's definitely a question we're going to look at. I don't dare over the table or here on this speaker's chair say yes or no to whether one should be able to take a letter in English, but we are open to listen and open to consider many different suggestions to succeed even better than we have done so far in making sure that people are in work, and that the time off is low. As I say, we have done better in Norway than in other countries. The availability of immigrants is lower in Norway than in the total population of most other countries around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e262	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e265	I will bring in the following theme: The Prime Minister has mentioned several times now the system relating to the export financing of capital goods, and that it was a system that the government put in place. The problem is that this system is still not in place because it has not agreed with ESA on the interest rate to be charged to these loans. So the export financing bit is at a standstill today. Export finance as an organisation no longer lends money. And not least the government's proposal is not yet in place because you don't agree with ESA. But what I was going to do with the Prime Minister is how we can use opportunities that Norway also has to do things because of the capital that Norway has. This applies, inter alia, to: construction of infrastructure. The government has assessed the creation of a strategy linked to, inter alia: getting foreign entrepreneurs to Norway in order to avoid major transport projects and make use of this possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e272	Foreign entrepreneurs are cordially welcome to Norway, and we will welcome them. They're going to be allowed to build great roads and railways and many other things. Because we are part of the EEA Agreement, where there is free competition and full opportunity to promote tenders across borders, it is also fully possible and very good that foreigners contribute to competition in the Norwegian construction market. Foreigners build things in Norway. It is so that there are both foreign companies doing it, and increasingly foreign workers do. So that's what we're for and we're going to make sure that still can happen. The important thing is that there are tenders, that there are projects. This government has increased the appropriations for road and track to an extent that now allows us to build road and track at a much greater pace and to a much greater extent than we have ever done. It's both the North and the Foreigners who do. The crucial thing is that we get new roads and railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e279	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e282	I want to return to work immigration. As the Prime Minister said, we are so lucky that people actually come to Norway and will help us fill the needs we have. We need more labour. As mentioned earlier, two out of three jobs in Oslo will be occupied by non-residents. The Prime Minister and others have been concerned about how to get the most of them into work, and that is important. But another case concerns those who have received a job. The challenge is that many foreigners are exploited — social dumping. Last week our country had a look-up where they indicated that a lawyer who could Polish and had specialized in Poland had executed 70 lawsuits in the last 11 months and had won all of them. There were examples of workers being kicked when they realized that they were entitled to holiday pay or had other rights, that they were cancelled just because they questioned too much overtime work. The government has been concerned, for example: strengthening labour supervision or regional protection agencies, but little has happened. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e289	It's wrong to say "little has happened". There are two comprehensive action plans against social dumping that have been adopted. The size has joined many measures taken, such as transparency, i.e. trade unions shall have the right of access to remuneration and working conditions of subcontractors, joint and several liability, i.e.: the responsibility for the pay and working conditions of the subcontracted enterprises – there are contentious measures, but important measures – the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, the increased use of identification for people working in different jobs, the publication of collective bargaining agreements, etc. These are many measures that, in total, have contributed to our success in at least limiting social dumping in Norway. It is an important part of our labour immigration policy. We want labour immigration, but we do not want social dumping. Therefore, the better we are to fight social dumping, the easier it is to say yes to labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e294	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e297	The left has no doubt that competition for labour will increase in the coming years, with more people involved, and that Norway will have to take part in this competition. Norway needs both unskilled and skilled labour. The left therefore believes that we need to modernise labour immigration rules. Traditionally, the left side has been a little skeptical about this and considers it a threat to Norwegian workers, and is sceptical about some sort of decoration. Such an example is the EU agency directive. But after listening to the Prime Minister here today, I believe that at the group meeting later today, the Prime Minister will speak warmly about this directive, which will receive the full support of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e302	What I think we have to understand is that we have to succeed in two things at the same time. We must both succeed in facilitating labour immigration – I believe we succeed in doing so through the EEA Agreement – and at the same time succeed in bringing foreign workers here, not making Norwegian pay and working conditions worse. It is bad for those who come here, because they get poor pay and poor working conditions, but it is also bad for everyone who is already here, because it undermines their rights. The two things work together, and the better we succeed in one, the easier it is to implement the other. With regard to the group meeting in the Workers' Party, I am unfortunately not there. I'll be down in Berlin, having dinner and discussing the financial crisis. But I'm sure my views are well taken care of, and then the Workers' Party will have to discuss its issues at the group meeting. Then the government will come back to the question of the temporary agency directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e309	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e313	This week started the climate meeting in Durban, South Africa. Unfortunately, when leaders around the world gather at this climate summit, they are the embodiment of pessimism both when it comes to what we expect and when it comes to climate. On the second day of the summit, the meteorologist organisation WMO presented a report that said that 13 of the last 15 years have been the warmest ever. The last decade has been the warmest since the organization started its measurements in 1850. The Secretary-General, Michel Jarraud, said the following: ‘Science is solid and clearly shows that the world is getting warmer and that this is a result of human activity will mean an increase in global average temperature of between 2 and 2.4 degrees.’ [[...]] So this is the U.N. Chief Weather Reporter, in many ways our own Kristen Gislefoss. Well, it's not like we can always believe the weather forecast, but what we know is two things. Science is clear that we now have climate change and that the consequences of it are major environmental changes, the sea will rise, the glaciers and the police will melt, there will be more extreme weather, more drought, more flooding and more hurricanes. The Christian People's Party is busy setting up an ambitious and binding global climate agreement, and we know that it shares with the Prime Minister. But my question is, What expectations does the Prime Minister have for the meeting, and what result does he expect?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e329	First, I would like to thank the representative for addressing a crucial and fundamental issue for our time. I can say that in terms of my expectations for the meeting in Durban, they are unfortunately not high. I am deeply concerned that we are not seeing progress, and that, on the contrary, we are seeing that in some areas progress is going in the wrong direction. What the world needs when it comes to the climate problem is collective reason. What we see is collective insensibility, a fundamental lack of interaction, a fundamental inability to understand that we need to work together to solve a major common problem, namely the climate problem. What I hope is that we should at least be able to get results in two areas in Durban. One is that we get some temporary arrangements when the Kyoto agreement expires. The Kyoto Agreement is the only global commitment to climate change emissions. It expires at the end of 2012, and then we no longer want an agreement. But what we are working for is that at least some countries, the EU, Norway, New Zealand, Australia, should say that they will comply with their Kyoto targets and obligations, and then other emission nations, such as China, Brazil, the United States, will hopefully be willing to declare that they will at least conclude an agreement once in the future. I hope we can do that. That's at least something, even though it's much smaller than we should want. The second is that there will be an agreement on a green fund. The key to getting progress in climate negotiations is that we have funding mechanisms in place. One main reason why there will be no results is that we have not put in place the schemes that will pay for climate action. There won't be climate action without we also have funding arrangements in place, and green funds are part of it. Norway has been a driver to put those schemes in place. The third area is forest. If we get some progress there, we'll get progress in an area where we get the biggest and fastest emission shots.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e338	I thank you for the answer, and I record that the Prime Minister says this is a crucial question for our time. He also says that he sees no progress. That is exactly what we also experience when it comes to climate change in our own country, where a climate settlement was concluded on 16 January 2008 with the aim of reducing emissions in our own country by between 15 and 17 million tonnes by 2020. So now we've been using four of the twelve years we had when we entered the climate agreement, and we're still in the middle of the city. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: We set some targets four years ago, a reduction of 15 to 17 million tonnes. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that we were reconciled, those objectives, are at stake?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e343	I believe that it is completely wrong to say that nothing happens, that there is a standstill, and that the climate agreement we agreed on in 2007 is not followed up. On the contrary, the climate agreement has been followed up, the government has taken it very seriously, and a wide range of measures have been implemented in line with the climate agreement. Railway investments have increased by nearly 70 pst., new requirements for CO2 emissions from cars and more environmentally friendly CO2 taxes on cars have been introduced, so that emissions from new cars are reduced sharply. Green certificates have been introduced, and we are the world leader in the development of carbon capture. We're going to spend about seven billion dollars. kr on the development of carbon capture; other countries give up similar projects around us. New energy requirements for construction have been introduced, we have put in place electrification of new fields on Norwegian soil, and we have introduced the EU quota system, which has also triggered cuts in the quota sector in Norway. In addition to that, we have done what we said, namely over-fulfilling the Kyoto agreement by 10 pst. So the climate agreement has been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e354	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e357	The Prime Minister says that the government is taking the climate deal very seriously. However, the 2010 greenhouse gas emissions statistics show that we are at rest on the ground in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. We had a decline, with economic downtime, but we're on the ground resting, unfortunately. Four years have passed since we made this agreement, and the Prime Minister is calling for more collective understanding when he talks about Durban, and not the collective intellect that we are now facing in the international community. Then it's a paradox that central government people go out into the media and encourage us to break the climate deal. State Secretary Per Rune Henriksen says it is expensive and stupid to stand at such a great climate in Norway. The Ministry of Finance has said something of the same thing. Is it true that the Prime Minister believes that the ETS sector should take greater responsibility than it currently has?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e362	The climate agreement has been followed up by this government, and the climate agreement was not such that there was any goal, and then there would be a big message with instruments. No, the climate agreement was an agreement on both objectives and instruments. We have followed up the tools, and it has been implemented significantly cut as a result of the tools – I mentioned some of them in my previous response. For the sector subject to allowances, the obligation to allowances triggers reductions. One of the largest emission reductions we have achieved in Norway is that the production of fertilisers is now in a much more environmentally friendly way than in the past, because one has to pay for emissions. Because fertiliser production has become part of the quota sector, it pays off to clean up. Therefore, Yara has developed more environmentally friendly production technologies and has contributed to significantly reducing emissions in Norway. So the fact that we have a quota obligation is one of the most effective means of reducing emissions. That is what the European Union is committed to as its main instrument. Similar arrangements are being put in place in Australia and other countries, just to show that the quota obligation, that it costs to pollute, is the most effective thing we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e371	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e374	I would like to refer to a quote that Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, said this weekend. He said the following to NTB: ‘We have to assess whether we’re going to put a suction tube in each and every dump in the North Sea. We may not have to say yes to all new projects. Attenuating the pace of opening new fields will be one of the most important measures to reduce Norwegian emissions by 20 per cent by 2020.’» This is in stark contrast to statements by the Minister of Oil and Energy. It stands in stark contrast to what is really a good oil message, which is now in Stortinget. We have an oil and energy minister who at times can almost be heard as the closest one to a Progress Party Council in this government – and of course we are very pleased about that. But here are the very mixed signals coming from this government. So you can't mean both of them at the same time, at the rate you add to the oil bill. Can the Council of State explain what is really the government's view, and what policy they are pursuing in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e386	Prime Minister Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e391	I'm sure the Council of State can explain. What the Prime Minister can say is this: the government's policy is firm. It is presented in the petroleum notification and it is the case. So at the same time, and I think we all have to admit that three parties can have three different opinions, but one government has one opinion. What's so exciting about a tripartite government is that you're three parties with one opinion in one government. What I think we have learned in political Norway is that there is a political debate in the parties. We have different opinions, but then one gathers about a common position in government. The Government has presented its views on oil policy and extraction in the notification of petroleum and in the management plans for the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. There, we are making provision for a sound, step-by-step, gradual development of Norwegian pedestal within an environmentally sound framework, so that we develop Norwegian oil and gas industry in a good way. - And we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e403	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e406	It says we have to think globally, but act locally. This means that we need to implement concrete measures at home if we are to contribute to global climate change. Such a measure is, for example: phase-out of oil firing in private dwellings. In the Municipality of Oslo, which is the Right-steered, there is a very good support system for phasing out oil fires that can be replaced by environmentally friendly alternatives. Unfortunately, the rest of the country does not have the same system. Enova has a system that doesn't trigger anything. My question is: Will the government be inspired by the Right-Steering Oslo Municipality? Will the Prime Minister himself personally contribute to this climate change by replacing his oil fuel? Will the government put in place a good arrangement in the rest of the country similar to that of the Municipality of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e415	Prime Minister Stoltenberg would like to answer questions to the Prime Minister. Private questions may be taken elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e418	The Government is committed to meeting the climate agreement’s objective of facilitating the transition from oil fires to other types of energy carriers. We have done this in several ways, including: through actions in Enova. But the most important measure is to ensure that the polluter pays, so that we increase the charges on polluting energy carriers. That is why we have also increased the mineral oil charge. It is a contribution to making the use of more energy-friendly energy carriers more profitable. When it comes to how my sister now handles the house she lives in, I think you're going to ask her about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e425	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e428	I must point out to the representative Astrup that Oslo is not right-wing, but run by three parties, and you can try to find out who has made the good remarks about the good environmental policy that operates in the city. But to something else. The government has said that they should cut two thirds of the emissions. It's in all the basic documents of the Durban meeting. I expect the Minister for the Environment not to jump out of a box in Durban and say that one customs. I assume you stand for it. Then we see that the government has provided a budget where all the tracks go so that we just increase emissions. The left has put forward an alternative budget where we use taxes and environmental mechanisms, so climate emissions will actually go down with our budget. My question to the Prime Minister is: why has the occasion not been used in this budget just to do the steps that the Prime Minister referred to? Enova? Why has this budget not been used to make the paths go in the right direction? Because it is the Prime Minister's paths that go in the wrong direction in the Prime Minister's document.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e439	It is such that the government implements significant measures to reduce emissions in Norway. In what was presented in the climate agreement, there were pathways that are obsessed with great uncertainty, which would increase something for some years and then start going down. That's what the climate agreement was about, and that's what all the parties here joined. Then, in fact, emissions have risen less than you thought, mainly because of the financial crisis. That is why we must follow up on measures, and this budget contains measures, including: continued significant investment in rail and public transport. We also include – not just in a budget – green certificates from the turn of the year, which is the most massive measure to promote renewable energy that has ever been implemented in Norway and the Nordic countries. So in addition to that, we're going to continue our billion-dollar operations in Mongstad. There's a bet that makes us now absolutely world leaders in developing a technology the world is going to need. We do that at a time when other countries are giving up their projects. So we're more and more alone about betting on carbon capture, and that's all the more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e448	Then we go to the next main question – from the representative Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e451	For a short time, the Minister of Health returned to the detention centre, and at that time the Prime Minister’s 20-day cancer guarantee, which has been expressed by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, was the subject of questions and clarification — or has been cancelled by the Minister of Health. We then understood that the guarantee was really meant to be a political goal without money or other means once in the future for 80 pst. of the cases. In another way, State Councillor Stroem-Erichsen, without taking the word «guarantee» in his mouth, agreed to guarantee that the guarantee was not guaranteed – but it was guaranteed. What's special about cancer is that the time aspect is very important, and that you have some questions about exactly the psychosomatic by getting the difficult message. The time aspect is important, because it is claimed from several professional teams that perhaps as many as 1,500 people die each year as a result of their late arrival for treatment, and the psychosomatic aspect is important in the sense that we all probably know someone who has been hit by cancer, and know how it affects their lives – not least when it comes to waiting, the time you are in treatment, what it is doing to a human being, and the fact that you are, in the most understandable sense, clinginging to the hope of getting through. Then time is very important. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister whether he has anything to say to all those out there who actually believed in his guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e462	Cancer is a brutal disease that affects many people: around 30 000 people get cancer every year in Norway. That's why it's very important that we do everything we can to give the people affected by cancer, good treatment as quickly as possible. Therefore, it is also gratifying that although too many people still do not receive the treatment they should have and are entitled to, we have seen progress. It hasn't been that many years since it was that if you had a cancer diagnosis, you died of it. Half of those diagnosed were dead within five years. Now, two out of three people who get a cancer diagnosis survive the diagnosis. In recent years, too, we have seen progress. Recently, the OECD produced new figures that showed that we have only gone from being quite mediocre, on average, to being completely at world level in terms of cancer treatment outcomes in the last two years. Hardly any other country is more likely to survive a cancer diagnosis than in Norway. In the case of some cancers, we're absolutely at the top, and there's been a significant improvement only in the last few to three years because there's been a lot of cancer. But that's not good enough. That's still missing, and that's why we have to get even better. That's why we formulated requirements for health businesses. I stressed at the press conference that it was not a guarantee. It was said in the press release, as I have here, that the goal was that 80 pst. would be treated after 20 working days. Now we see that we are following it up to the hospitals, both with significantly increased appropriations, with efforts where there have been bottlenecks – for example. in the context of advanced X-ray studies — and with better organisation, so that several samples can be taken on the same day. That's why the goal we set is followed up. So it won't be a guarantee, even if you say it's a guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e473	We can all rejoice that medical development, and perhaps not political development, has contributed to the fact that cancer treatment is much better and with a much higher survival rate now than before – all of us should rejoice over that. But in my opinion, then, a guarantee, or promise, is nothing worth without giving a legal right, without competence, without specialists, without a diagnostic center or – not least – without resources. So next year, there is no real increase in the health budget. Most of what has been proposed there is directed towards wage growth, interest rate increases, etc., etc. So my question to the Prime Minister, as a follow-up, must be: What disease groups does he want to give down if he is to give priority to cancer care, when he does not give more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e479	That's how we increase hospital appropriations, we increase health care spending next year, which we've done every year this government has been sitting. This has contributed to more patients being treated now than ever. It has also helped to improve the results of cancer treatment. It is not good enough, we are not in the target, but it is that when we were on average in the OECD in 2009 when it came to survival, and now at the very top – and in some areas, no country has better results in cancer than Norway – it is not just about medical development, because it is also in other countries, but it is the result of health efforts. I would like to thank all those who work in the Norwegian health service, who have contributed to it. It is partly about more money, but it is not least about better organisation, that people have insisted that there is a high level of competence. This means that it is still very serious to have a cancer diagnosis, but the probability of survival is higher than ever, and higher in Norway for most cancers that have been measured than in almost all other countries. That's good, but that's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e486	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Jon Jäger Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e489	I find that the Prime Minister confirms that the so-called guarantee was just a bluff. The government's goal is at 80 pst. have started cancer treatment within 20 days. Today, the national average is 64 pst. The hospitals that have problems meeting the guarantee point to a lack of equipment and a lack of staff. It is true, as the Prime Minister says, that the bottlenecks are on image diagnosis and photocopying and internal coordination in hospitals. I cannot see that the government has invested fresh funds, unlike the Progress Party, in the budget to meet these inputs. The questions we get from people out there, who have also read the state budget, are questions like: What does the government think hospitals are going to drop to get money to invest in cancer diagnostic equipment? What groups of patients do you think hospitals should now say no in order to provide room for increased cancer treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e498	The President would simply say that it should be possible to produce a political message without using the concept of ‘bluff’ from the pulpit of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e501	Let me quote from the press release that we sent out in June this year. It says: ‘However, at least 80 % of patients should receive assistance within these time limits.’ So you have to get a diagnosis, and the treatment has to start within 20 working days. When you have a goal of something, I do not hear that it is the same as a guarantee, nor is it something we have said that we will reach immediately. We haven't yet got any figures that say anything about the development after the summer. We didn't get numbers for the second half of 2011. It's not like we're assuming we're in target before Christmas. But what we're counting on is that the things we're doing now are going to lead to further progress, so that even more people can get faster treatment. It's positive that over 60 pst. may start their treatment within 20 working days. You have to go through a comprehensive process. Difficult assessments shall be made as to whether it is cellular toxicity, whether it is an operation, whether it is radiation treatment, or whether there is a combination of it to be carried out. So it takes some time to make the kind of professional assessment is obvious. But we've come a long way. We are completely at the top of Europe, but we are not in the finish line, and we are not good enough. That is why we need to continue our efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e515	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e518	Half of those who get cancer have it as a cold called diffuse symptoms. This means that the decision-maker does not write ‘suspects of cancer’ when referring the patient to the specialist healthcare service. The experience from Denmark was that when the type of lead time introduced by the government here in Norway was introduced, this patient group actually had longer waiting time because they got behind the queue. In response to this, the Danish government introduced demands to establish diagnostic centres in hospitals, so that the half who have diffuse symptoms also get a rapid diagnosis. What is this government's strategy that half of Norwegian cancer patients should not have longer waiting time as a result of the government's passing times?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e527	First, I don't think any country can copy each other, but we can be inspired by each other. However, this constant comparison with Denmark is at least linked to the weakness that Norway has better results in cancer treatment than Denmark. We have a cancer treatment offer in Norway that makes it more likely to survive a cancer diagnosis in Norway than in Denmark, and we have increased significantly in the last two years in terms of results. We're at the top of Europe for most of the cancers being measured. Yes, we can certainly learn something from Denmark and other countries, but no, it's not that we should copy their system, because we have better results. Our way of governing the health care system is that we make demands, and then we add resources. But at the same time, I have quite high confidence that politicians should be a little careful about how to organise a health service. I am concerned that we are making demands on the hospitals. We provide them with resources, including: to do something with the bottlenecks. Then I have confidence that they find good ways to organize it, and it has given good results so far compared to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e536	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e539	I think it's indisputable that most people, we here in the Stortinget and the Cancer Association, have realized that it was given a guarantee. We heard everyone even the Minister of Health call it a guarantee in an item on TV. In a consultation note to the Health and Care Committee, the Foundation writes “within 48 hours” that the period from the suspicion of cancer to diagnosis is crucial for survival. Every day people die in Norway because the diagnosis was made too late. Treatment is different for different cancers, and for some cancers starting within 20 days is not critical. For other cancers, 20 days are the difference between survival and death. We know that half of the patients in the country's largest cancer hospital, the Radium Hospital, are waiting longer than the government's guarantee of a 20-day period. My question is, what does the Prime Minister think when you have a guarantee or a promise of 20 days, and you can't fulfill it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e550	I think that all people who get cancer get a very big worry and feel a very great uncertainty for the future. I really feel for both those who get a cancer diagnosis and all their relatives and family members. That's why we've been doing a lot of work in this government for several years now to renovate cancer care in this country. That's why, even though we've gotten a lot, we're still not satisfied, and that's why we choose to spend billions of dollars on health care rather than, for example, on health care. treasure bill. That is why we are pleased that, while we were on an average in Europe a few years ago, it is now Europe that has the best results for many cancers, and where we are not the best, we are among the best in terms of survival. It's very happy for the people who now survive, but who a few years ago would have died because of a cancer diagnosis. But that's not good enough for those who still don't get a good enough diagnosis. Therefore, we make new demands, add new money and have set even higher targets through the requirements we have set.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e558	Then we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e561	For the Right, we're not so very concerned about whether these new demands from the government are a guarantee, a recommendation, a guide or a guideline. But we're very concerned that it should actually work for Norwegian cancer patients. This is a technical recommendation from the Health Directorate presented by the Prime Minister this summer. It is clear that it is not every day that the Prime Minister is the press official of the Health Directorate when they make new professional recommendations, so it must mean that when the Prime Minister chooses to make this submission, it implies a clear political commitment that this will be followed up with real content. The previous Right-Centre administration was amended by the Patient Rights Act in order to obtain individual medical deadlines based on a medical evaluation. This guarantee is a medical evaluation. Will the Prime Minister ensure that these time-limits now set by the government become part of the time-limit set for each cancer patient, thus giving this supervisor a legal content, so that the patient is given a right to diagnosis and treatment elsewhere if his or her local hospital is unable to comply with this professionally based recommendation on a time-limit for diagnosis and treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e572	It's absolutely right that it's based on professional advice from the Health Directorate, and that's also why we're very sure that these are the right demands to make to the hospitals. But there has also been a professional assessment that we cannot make an absolute legal claim that all treatment should start within 20 days. It's because some cancers are very complicated. What needs to be done, then, are investigations, diagnostics, and you have to be sure of what kind of treatment to take. Then the technical advice we are given is that if you asked for 100 percent – that all treatments should start within 20 working days – it would be professionally irresponsible, because the risk would be too great because you haven't done enough research, enough assessment of whether there should be cell poison, radiation, surgery or combinations of this. That is also why we did not formulate it as a guarantee, that we did not formulate it as a legal requirement – simply because it is considered to be professionally incorrect. Although it is possible for a large majority to make the right diagnosis within 20 working days, unfortunately there are cancers where, on a professional basis, it will take a little longer before the necessary investigations and assessments have been carried out – if you, for example, are involved. should remove a breast, or if you are not going to do so, bet on radiation or cell poison or combinations. That's why we haven't set it as a legal requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e579	I see the argument the Prime Minister makes. But there is no problem either, because as long as this is a professional counsellor, a person could as a general rule have that the individual medical deadline was within this professional supervisor. If there are professional reasons to derogate from this guarantee, it is fully possible that it is entered in view of the individual deadline set. So the fact that a small proportion of cancer patients can't get their rights fulfilled within that time is not an argument that not 80 pst. will get it – and thus have an opportunity to use the Patient Rights Act to fulfill what the Directorate says is what provides a professionally sound offer. So why won't the government take advantage of the opportunity to say that this director from the directorate should also guide those who set the individual medically prescribed deadline, which all these patients get?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e586	We are at any time willing to look at all the good proposals and assess new improvements to the Norwegian cancer offer, and that is also why we have succeeded in improving significantly in recent years. We are now receiving results that show that we have had a significant improvement, for example. in the case of multiple cancers, and we are at the top of Europe in terms of survival. Then we've been busy moving on. That is why we have set these requirements for hospitals based on technical advice from the Health Directorate. We've done one more thing: we're now publishing figures that show how hospitals achieve these goals. We think this is important for the patient, but it is also important for hospitals to see if they do not reach those goals and what can be done about it. More transparency of results and quality is a contribution to improving quality. But our assessment has therefore been that there should be professional requirements, but not legal requirements, simply because this is an area where sometimes it has to be more than 20 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e596	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e599	The issue of providing clear deadlines is important, because it also triggers some rights in today’s system. Quite parallel to the question of the guarantee, or recommendation, of starting cancer treatment, is the discussion we have had in recent months relating to breast reconstruction after being treated for breast cancer. There – and that is good – the government, or health authorities, finally concluded that it should be part of the treatment. Nevertheless, the government, or the Ministry of Health, will not set individual deadlines for this breast reconstruction to take place as part of the treatment. This means that you do not trigger the right to go elsewhere unless the deadlines are met. This means that you can be in danger of continuing exactly the same development that we've had, that the waiting time is getting longer and longer. Why won't the government make it worth living even after you've survived a breast cancer operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e608	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative Solberg sees that we have achieved important things in the area of cancer, including breast cancer. The most important thing is that we now have significantly better survival outcomes, that the probability of survival of breast cancer has increased, and is among the highest in the world. Secondly, it's obviously quite different what kind of results you have, when it comes to getting a reconstruction of your chest after an operation. Again, the image is complex: some get it quickly, others get it as part of the cancer operation, while others take it time again – among others. because there are professional reasons for this, because some women who have had breast cancer, for example. shall be subjected to radiation treatment or another type of treatment after the operation. Once again, we're absolutely willing to go through the routines that exist, look at what we can do to get an even better and even faster treatment for those who have had a breast cancer operation, because even if we get good results, they're not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e617	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e620	I think the prime minister just slightly dismisses the Danish model. Yes, it is true that we are among the world's best countries for cancer treatment. The Radium Hospital, OCC, etc. In addition to Norwegian research on cancer, we have generally contributed to our being among the best in the world. The Danish introduced the Danish model to make its bad starting point better. Setting up a Danish model in Norway would also make our good starting point even better. Then I wonder why you're not willing to bet on the two things that you know work, namely legal rights and more resources for what's important – cancer treatment and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e627	Our experience is that there are at least two things that work, and we do both. One is more money. That is why we grant more money to the health service. There is hardly any country in the world that spends more money on health than Norway does, we are at the very top of Europe in terms of appropriations for health, and it has increased significantly in recent years. The second thing we do is we improve the organisation of the health service. This is what we do in the case of cancer – several studies the same day instead of waiting for different studies different days, but also the division of work we are now doing at the hospitals – very controversial, but the fact that we now specialize in different cancers in different hospitals makes us world champions in treating certain types of cancer. That is a reason why we get the results we get, and that we are the country that has the best survival in breast cancer, in Europe, for example, and clearly better than Denmark. So I'm not saying that there can't be any things we can learn from Denmark, but copying the Danish system I don't recommend because they get worse results than we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e637	Laila Bavøy – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e640	It is important that professional requirements can be regulated better than today, and I perceive that the Prime Minister has said a few times that he is willing to go through procedures if we can get better. I choose to believe the Prime Minister that the Minister of Health for this Question Time will do so. The 20 days have become important for most people, it was perceived as a promise or a guarantee. It helps very little that Norway is at the top of the world – it’s great, of course, but it doesn’t help the individual who has to wait too long if it turns out it may be too late. My question to the Prime Minister is: how long does the Prime Minister think it should go before we here in Norway with pride and with confidence for patients can say that now we have a system, a guarantee, that we have reached these 20 days everywhere for those who actually need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e647	Firstly, I would like to stress the following – that I am willing to go through routines at any time and anywhere in all areas. It would be an expression of a conservative approach to life if you say that just the way we do it today, is perfect. It is not guaranteed, and therefore we are guaranteed to make changes also in months and years that come, also in the field of cancer. This is precisely what these new guidelines are – they are an expression that we have gone through routines and have seen that there are too many people waiting too long for cancer treatment, we have made new demands and started to follow it up, with more money, better organisation and by loosening bottlenecks, for example. in the case of X-rays and examinations. We're concerned that it has to produce results. I think it's a little dangerous to say that it doesn't help anything that we're at the top of the world. It is clearly helpful that in Norway the probability of survival of a cancer diagnosis is best, or at least among the very best in the world, and significantly better now than a few years ago in Norway. It's good for all those who survive, who would have died if we hadn't had the improvement in cancer treatment that we've had in Norway in recent years. But that's not good enough, and that's why we're going to get even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e654	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e666	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance, who is directly responsible. Questions 7 and 8 from Bjørn Lødemel and Anita Orlund, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e683	This question, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e686	‘Financial supervision proposes to increase the equity requirement for the purchase of owner-occupied dwellings from 10 p.m. to 15 p.m. The supervision will also apply to start-up loans granted to help disadvantaged people enter the housing market. The Christian People's Party believes that start-up loans should be exempted from the requirement for increased equity, because a stronger requirement would destroy a decisive housing social tool at a time of over 6,000 homeless people. Can the Council of State promise that initial loans will be exempted from the requirement of increased equity in the case of the purchase of owner-occupied dwellings?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e698	I answer this question by agreement with the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs because the Financial Supervisory Authority is under the responsibility of the Minister for Finance. The starting point is that housing prices in Norway have increased markedly over several years. In March 2010, the Financial Supervisory Authority issued guidelines on sound lending practices for residential loans. The financial supervision has now notified changes to these guidelines. Financial supervision justifies the need for changes in the level of debt in Norwegian households, interest rates are low, the growth of housing prices is high, and lending practices have been too liberal. The start-up loan is one of the government's main housing policy instruments. The start-up loan helps people with little or no equity and others who have difficulties getting into the housing market. The start-up loan is not directly covered by the guidelines of the Financial Supervisory Authority, which apply only to banks under the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority. State banks, such as: The house bank is excluded. However, the starting loan is affected by the guidelines of the Financial Supervisory Authority if the initial loan is granted together with loans from banks under the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority and the starting loan is granted against mortgages on dwellings. Should a bank deviate from the norm, there must be either additional collateral or the bank must have carried out a separate prudential assessment. Criteria for such soundness assessments are laid down by the Board of Governors of each bank. The majority of the financial committee shall have a comment on this in its position on the national budget, where the majority assumes that it will continue to be possible: ‘to provide loans to borrowers who also have starting loans from the Husbank, even if this implies a total mortgage of more than 85 pst. of the value of the dwelling, if the financial institutions and local authorities consider this to be justified by an individual assessment’. According to the guidelines on sound lending practices set out in point 4 of the Financial Supervisory Authority, it: ‘there must be either a formal additional collateral in the form of collateral in other property, personal security commitments in respect of parts of the loan, or the bank must have made a separate prudential assessment’, in the case of normal deviations. [[...]] [[cow/guarantee]] At this point, financial supervision has not notified changes to the guidelines, in addition to the fact that the criteria for the assessment of soundness, as set out in the guidelines, ‘should be determined by the board of individual banks’. The start-up loan is already subject to a separate prudential assessment. The government assumes that with a continued sound credit assessment both in the bank and in the municipality, the changes in the Financial Supervisory Guidelines will not prevent total loans from continuing and currently in excess of 85 pst. the value of the dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e721	Thanks for the answer. If I can allow myself to ask in a slightly different way, so I am also involved in all the ping-pongs between financial supervision and banks, etc., then the question is: Will there be changes in the allocation of the start-up loan in relation to what was going on until the Financial Supervisory Authority came up with its new guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e726	Firstly, as I also said in my answer, start-up loans are an important part of social housing policy, and as I also pointed out, the Financial Committee has dealt with this issue in its position on the national budget. I also had a quote from the Financial Committee's position, where it included: is that you can «outstanding loans to borrowers who also have starting loans from the Husbank, even if this implies a total mortgage of more than 85 pst. of the value of the dwelling, if the financial institutions and local authorities consider this to be justified by an individual assessment’. It is also the case today that an individual assessment of the individual borrower is carried out. Indeed, today's practice continues to ensure that there is a sound assessment of the individual borrower. It's important to underline that very point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e736	Thank you for your clarification. So practice will be the same. My question concerns, for example: young people who want a dwelling, who have major challenges and who are «capped» by this new equity requirement. I can't see that the government has presented any kind of instrument to give them any incentive to enter the housing market now with new demands. After all, an overall opposition has a proposal and, to the extent that it has also proposed in the budget for next year, to strengthen the tax incentives, the BSU, so as to allow more people to access their own housing. What does the government think should be done so that too many are not affected by these new guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e743	There are now several instruments that can be used in housing policy. The government has started work on a communication on building policy, as it is called, to be submitted to spring. Housing policy, and not least what can be described as social housing, will be an important part of that communication. One has several possibilities. One is the start-up loan scheme, which I have already mentioned. The second is direct grants from the House Bank. The third concerns people who are in a very difficult situation of life, those who go under the name homeless, to which the question also refers. The house bank has the possibility to submit direct grants of up to 40 p.m. to municipalities that build apartments and dwellings that can be rented out to those in difficult living conditions. So there's more tools you have, but these are things that we'll get back to in the housing report. There we will also assess the BSU scheme, to which it is called more popular, what the questioner referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e754	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Finance: «Many industries depend on seasonal labour force from other countries. In order to be paid, these employees must have a D-number. Governments announced in their answer to written question No. 1 609 for 2010–2011 that a cross-ministerial group would explain the current regime. This was to provide a report during the autumn. There are still signs of long processing times and routines that cause problems for business around D-number. What are the conclusions of the Working Group and what improvements will the Council of State make?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e763	The government is committed to ensuring user-friendliness and efficiency for individuals and businesses when in contact with authorities. In the case of the D-numbering process, other considerations also need to be considered, including: the quality of information used in public registers and the risk of misuse of D-numbers as part of criminal activity. The working group has delivered a report with several proposals to improve today's D-numbering system. The measures proposed in the report shall contribute to improving the quality of data in the public register and to reducing the risk of false identities in the central personal data register of the country. We are working on the proposals from the working group, and we are in dialogue with the Tax Directorate on the follow-up. Initially, there is no absolute requirement for a D-number and tax card to get paid, but the tax allowance is to be 50 pst. without a tax card. Wages and salaries in excess of NOK 10000 cannot be made in cash but must be paid via bank. If the employee does not have a bank account and therefore wants to create one in Norway, he must have a D-number. Various actors have recorded with the Ministry of Finance that there is a need in some cases to pay wages in cash to non-resident workers. We're now assessing that in the department. In the case of D-numbers claimed by the tax administration, personal attendance is required for the identity check. We are now looking at this with measures to improve accessibility, and this is also assessed in consultation with the Tax Directorate. Fewer tax offices where ID checks are carried out will lead to longer travel routes for some workers, but good alternative offers, which we are now working on, are expected to pay for it to some extent. I am concerned that the new organisation of the ID check should not make it more difficult than necessary to have services performed, either for foreign workers or for traders in Norway. What we consider is measures such as outreach activities, hourly ordering and outreach. The new organisation of the tax haven's work on ID control will be implemented as soon as we have good answers to this and good offers in place for both employers and non-resident workers. The requirement in respect of the recovery of D-number is that it shall take five days. At present, the tax rate reports that some regions are up-to-date on a daily basis. For some regions, the length of proceedings in pressed periods is up to eight days, but average proceedings are reported to be around the target. However, the reorganisation of the ID control tasks will not significantly affect the processing time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e780	I thank you for your answer. It's good that the department has a focus on usability for business and stuff like that. The reason for the question is actually a letter from the NHO Homeland. We heard earlier in the Questionnaire that the Prime Minister said that Norway had not gone around without Swedes. Neither do Trysil and the kind of tourist destinations. In fact, the letter from the NHO Inland states that some workers have experienced that the procedure at the Skatetaten takes a very long time. This has meant that some have not been paid in four months. This is a little in conflict with what the Council of State says that the time of the proceedings is. I have also been informed by the NHO Homeland that it has now fallen somewhat, but it is still very long. It is totally unacceptable that the length of the procedure is so long. It is obvious that there is still a lot left to do before the situation out there is in line with what the Minister of Finance is signaling is the perception within the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e789	Yes, we have had good common benefit to the common Nordic labour market in the last 60 years. There's one of the points, that it's also going to be made so that it's still going to be like this. This is also the reason why the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance intervened when problems arose for Swedish workers at a time. That was also why we put this working group down. I am not familiar with – except for the letter from the NHO Inland asker now refers to – what is involved in the processing time, but it is obvious that it is too long. It is important for us to have a trial period that is down to five days in a normal situation, and also faster than that. I'm going to promise the representative, Gundersen, that this is an area where we'll have a lot of attention, because it's going to be relatively easy to get a D number, given that a get good practice to check the importance of the information. There is also a difference between workers: those who have been a lot in Norway and those who have been less in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e798	I think it's very central how to organise this internally in the tax system, and that it's going to be rational practice. There's a lot of excitement in that it's supposed to be personal, and how it's treated. In the same letter that went to the entire Hedemark bench, it was informed that this was sent by mail to the central offices handling the applications. This has to take quite a long time, so here's a lot to do. Cash payments have been made earlier in the Questionnaire. I'm very happy that the Council of State is also working on it, because I think you might have to find some routines where you can trust business in terms of treatment. I agree with the Council of State that there is a problem around cheating, but Sweden practises a method of prior approval of companies and builds confidence in industry, so that they can do much of the procedure here. I want to ask the Council of State: will he also include such recordings in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e807	Yes, it's a good idea for the representative here to come up with, that we should now look at the interaction between business and government. We have expressed this in another case in relation to the audit obligation, which is also based on a trust relationship between business and authorities. It is possible to imagine this in this case as well. As I said, we are working on improving access, because we want to focus the D-numbering process on fewer tax offices than today, on outreach activities, as I mentioned, and on other ways to make it practical. You can also imagine that there might be a cooperation with other state agencies, which can be used to do it might call identity control, that the information is actually correct. There are several possibilities here to ensure that this can be done in a good and sensible way and to reduce the length of the procedure to the objective, i.e. a maximum of five days.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e818	‘The financial supervision and the government have ensured that the equity requirements of borrowers are strengthened. The parties to the Government shall have in the Innst. 2 S for 2011-2012 based on the assumption that the guidelines of the Financial Supervisory Authority do not deprive financial institutions of the possibility to grant loans to borrowers that also have starting loans from the Husbank, even if this implies a total mortgage of more than 85 pst. the value of the dwelling. Why is it irresponsible to give more than 85 pst. loans to ordinary people but more than 85 pst. loans to persons in need of financial support.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e825	As the questioner refers to, the majority of the financial committee has commented on this in the vote on the national budget. The majority express in the note concerns about the strong debt growth we have in households, and for debt-driven growth in housing prices and writes that the Financial Supervisory Guidelines ‘contribute to increasing financial stability in the Norwegian economy’. The majority also say that they assume that the guidelines of the Financial Supervision «does not deprive financial institutions of the ability to provide loans to borrowers who also have starting loans from the Husbank, even if this means that the total amount of the mortgage is more than 85 pst. of the value of the dwelling, if the financial institutions and local authorities consider it appropriate after an individual assessment`. It is clear from the guidelines that, if a bank is to deviate from the norm, there must be either additional collateral or the bank must have carried out a separate prudential assessment. The criteria for such prudential assessments shall be laid down by the Board of Governors of each bank. This applies in general and is not targeted specifically at starting loans. Whether it is appropriate for a bank to grant loans in excess of the norm must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, based, inter alia, on a case-by-case basis. on the collateral of the loan and the borrower's ability to repay the loan. Starting loans are provided by municipalities with funds from the Husbanken. Like banks, municipalities also have to comply with the provisions of the Financial Agreements Act on credit rating and on deterrence. According to the figures we received from the Husbank, about half of those applying for a start-up loan in the first half of 2011 were refused their application. Six out of ten were refused because of a lack of ability to pay. Starting loans are already subject to a separate prudential assessment. The government assumes that with a continued sound credit assessment, both in the bank and in the municipality, the change in the Financial Supervisory Guidelines will not prevent the overall loan from continuing and currently in excess of 85 pst. the value of the dwelling. Otherwise, I refer to the answer and the replacement of lines after question No by the representative of Syversen. 1 today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e841	I hope the Council of State can get a little bit more precise. Here one says that in the case of initial loans, one can, after an individual assessment, make exceptions and give loans of more than 85 pst. Does the Minister of Finance therefore believe that the Board of Financial Supervisors should be a council – and not a requirement – also for all other banking customers, so that a bank has full freedom to grant people who do not receive start-up loans, more than 85 pst. in loans to a dwelling because one has made an individual assessment? Or is this an exception that only applies to those who get a start-up loan from the Husbank? It does not harmonize that one from the Labour Party on the one hand says that one should tighten up the borrowing policy, but on the other hand makes exceptions for those who really do not have the best control.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e850	This is the case today, whether in the case of loans requested by the undersigned or requested by the applicant, the Bank shall carry out a credit assessment and a sound assessment of whether it is appropriate to grant loans to the undersigned or the respondent. They're still going to do that. This is a guideline from the Financial Supervisory Authority. This guideline has a number of criteria to be met. There is no absolute requirement for everything to be 85 pst. It may be below in some cases, and it may be above. What is new is that the prudential assessments to be carried out by the Bank are to be anchored in the governing bodies of the Bank. It's not an assessment that's going to be done at the counter when you come and apply for a loan, it's going to be a culture that's going to permeate the bank's credit granting. One might also experience that – I was saying – ordinary people get a loan measurement in addition to 85 pst., after such a health assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e857	Minister of Finance: Does it mean that the bank itself can - if it so wishes - average 90 pst. in loans to people because it believes it is sound because, for example: come from a solid savings bank where they know that people are feeding? Or they will, if they give you 90 pst. to someone, had to give only 80 pst. to others, given that the capital requirement is the same – so that the fractions go up here? Is it that one basically sets a maximum of 85 pst. of the total lending framework, or get an individual assessment, which makes some banks actually want to finance 100 pst., if it were, because they see that they get loan customers who have good education, but are newly educated and thus have no equity, but they have a very good management?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e862	Today there's a guideline that says it's 90 pst. which is in a way the applicable requirements. This is a guideline, and that means that, after a sound assessment, the banks can be below and above this target. This applies to banks under the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority, so that the Financial Supervisory Authority will be able to go in and verify how the Bank has, first of all, set up this prudential assessment, whether it is anchored in the governing bodies, and how a lending policy has actually been implemented. So, on the basis of it, it might be appropriate to tighten up the practice. That's how it's going to work. But that means that if there's additional security, bail, besides taking a mortgage into a dwelling, a normal man and woman can also get a loan that goes beyond 85 pst. The overall importance of the credit assessment, the soundness of the credit assessment and the overall safety of the bank are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e873	The question to the Minister for Transport is: «At present many toll-financed road installations are being built. Further plans are being made. Toll financing is forced on the purchase of the road for hire. Purchases of payments are expensive, even when the way is purchased on payment. Transport costs are rising sharply in a country where the disadvantages and costs associated with long-range transport needs are all high. An example is the cost of the trip-return Hamar-Kristiansand, which can be worth NOK 900 only in tolls. Will the Council of State file a case on the extent and consequences of toll use in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e882	The current guidelines for toll financing of road investments have been submitted to the Stortinget in several respects, most recently in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, National Transport Plan 2010–2019. In my view, it would be natural to consider different aspects of both toll financing and other alternative funding solutions in the context of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, which will be submitted to the Stortinget early in 2013. At the same time, I would like to stress that I am in favour of toll financing in order to ensure a faster implementation of road projects than would otherwise be possible through public budgets alone. However, there is a clear indication that there is local political support for the toll projects being launched for Stortinget. In addition, a specific assessment is made on each project, including the following: to ensure that the toll load is not too high in some areas. However, there are considerable differences in costs between parts of the country due to different costs of ferrying and tolling. For the same reason, different route choices result in significant cost differences for transit traffic. It is also pointed out in the transport networks’ main report from the national transport plan phase 2014-2023. The Ministry of Transport will follow up the use of tolls and the principle for this in the further work on the national transport plan notification. There is a significant point for me that the administrative costs of toll financing should be as low as possible, and it will be worked on continuously to keep these costs down. In this context, I can mention that the Directorate of Roads has been entrusted with the task of establishing county/regional toll companies. It's a work they do with, among other things. Hordaland and South-Trundellag counties. The Road Directorate has a deadline for the fall, and they are now in the final phase of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e893	Thank you for an answer that was quite as expected. It is under this government that the use of toll financing has increased sharply, and there are likely to be more questions and proposals from the Progress Party to try to stop these developments, which we consider to be both very unfortunate and unnecessary. Annual payments from the drivers are now much larger than the country spends on road investment. It implies a comprehensive extra tax. In the 2012 state budget, the bombers make a total of 9.2 billion. NOK at disposal, of which a total of SEK 1,6 billion is used. kr for collective action, i.e. not for action on the road. Will the government provide an annual overview of the payment and use of tolls so that drivers and the public can see more clearly the extent of the use of tolls and the extent of the extra tax that this extensive use entails?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e902	Arne Sortevik's description of the situation means that the state's rights to road and transport have also increased significantly. The road budget has increased by about 50 pst. and the rail budget of over 70 pst. It also includes history that the actual collection of tolls, i.e. the amount collected in 2012, is actually slightly less than in 2011. Then it's the right, as the representative Sortevik says, that the total amount that the toll companies make available is greater. It's because it's a company that borrows and advances expenses. I'm not going to put anything on the total number of toll projects. I found it difficult, very difficult — to go against local initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e909	What the Council of State refers to as a local initiative is what some call political pressure, and what others actually call political extortion. But it also belongs to the story that the example shown in the first question, i.e. in the introduction, that even with 30 pst. An additional transport tax on a weekly Kristiansand-Hamar trip will therefore be NOK 33 000, and for a trip twice a week NOK 66 000. It says a little bit about the dimension of this big and strong transport tax. While the government wants the drivers to pay more, the government has a policy to remove the drivers and car use from the roads, so this does not have sustainability either. Is it not time to stop with regard to the use of tolls in the world's richest country and to put in place a new strategy for financing roads and public and environmental transport, based on state funding from a rich country, instead of constantly issuing additional transport taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e916	What the Progress Party calls for political pressure, and even for political extortion, are very many in this country who are transformed into joy in having their road project completed or realised in full, by partial or total toll financing. We're going to stop, in the sense that, as I said in my first answer, we're going to discuss different forms of funding in the next national transport plan. Here's an example from the later time that we're also going to do the exact same thing, so it's going to be fairer on longer distances. But the two years that I have now spent in the Ministry of Transport have taught me: Bombs have come to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e927	«In the Commandments of Ashker and Bærum on 17 November, it appears that Mesta is already salting the roads. Most of it refers to guidelines made by the State Road Service for its salt practices. I am familiar with the Salt SMART project, where the main objective is a reduced and more environmentally friendly salt practice. During the project period, salt use was more than doubled, and uncritical salting is reported from many teams. There is a desire to reduce salt use, and more research reports support this. Does the Council of State think that the use of road salt will fall this winter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e934	The state road system is continuously working on improving the operational contracts and their follow-up, with a particular focus on winter operations. The goal is the best possible running conditions with a minimum load on the environment. The four-year R & D programme Salt SMART has been completed. Knowledge of the project will be disseminated continuously in the Road Administration and to entrepreneurs, to ensure a practice of salting that takes the best care of the environment. Knowledge will be included in the contracts as they are re-explained – about 25 pst. is illuminated every year. The first contracts that have a new system are now being published. Every person running a saline car also receives a thorough training on problems related to salting. This bet started in the fall. It will take about four years to train all the contractors and change all the contracts. The new contracts require the use of salt solution where there should also be roadway, where this is most appropriate. It gives less salt use. Different methods of salting and aligning and managing the contracts are also used, to reduce the salinity of roads. The work being done is time consuming. It is enough to expect the big changes all this winter. The aim of raising skills and changing the requirements of the contracts is to reduce salt use while improving running conditions and to see the result of this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e945	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have been informed that when the Salt SMART project was started in 2007, the annual consumption of the road total was 160 000 tonnes – that was in winter 2006–2007. When the project is completed in 2011 — it is now completed — consumption has more than doubled, to a total of 330 000 tonnes. In the media, it has recently been found that the salt stores are now even more fuller than last winter. I have been informed that contractors are paid per kilogram of salt, so they even salt when there are 10 plus degrees and not snow and cold waiting. Does the Minister for Transport agree that this is not smart salting? And is the Minister for Transport aware that the concession contracts already concluded are the cause of this critical salting?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e956	First of all, I think the numbers that the representative Borghild Tenden here refers to are worth taking the greatest seriousness – no, not with a pinch of salt, but with the greatest seriousness! And then we also have to consider that the reason is actually to improve the running ratio. When the contracts entered into are due, I can say that the first contracts that involve a change are now entered into. So it goes four years before all the contracts are changed. But I just have to say that the representative Tenden is dealing with a very important matter, and I'm going to follow closely how this development is progressing, because here one has to be able to measure a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e963	Thank you so much for keeping this in focus. In the evening post it was found that trees die because of road salinisation, cars rust, and there are concerns from neighbors to drinking water sources, which I have been involved in a previous question. Cyclisten’s National Association has expressed itself critically, and it has also been claimed that salting has a negative effect on the road, that the asphalt can actually crumble. There is at all great resistance in the population, even the professional drivers are very negative. There is evidence from several quarters that salinisation can make roads less safe and lead to more serious accidents than other methods, such as: heated sand or CMA, calcium-magnesium acetate. How does the Minister relate to such documentation? She herself said in a debate already on 3 May this year that salting could lead to accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e972	Here are the difficult evaluations – on the one hand, an improvement in running conditions and an improvement in road safety, of which we are all concerned, and on the other hand negative results for the environment in general and for the local environment in particular, the latter has emerged at the very latest. The main question was whether the council believes that the use of road salt will go down this winter. On the one hand, I have to keep to the fact that there are extensive processes here that will lead to change. So I want to expect, on the one hand, that there will be some time. On the other hand, there is my clear hope and my belief that we will make changes in a positive sense, and I will follow very closely what is being done here, and what is not being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e983	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘I refer to the fact that Health Director Bjørn-Inge Larsen recommends the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health and Care to say no to the introduction of early ultrasound. The reason is that neither health and health reasons for introducing routine ultrasound have been identified for week 18. The knowledge centre has also previously established that what can be found mainly is a suspicion that the foetus has Downs. Does the Council agree not to introduce early ultrasound?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e992	I am concerned that we should have a good quality maternity care, which ensures the necessary consideration both for the future child and for the family. This implies that the studies provided by the public health service as part of maternity care must be ensured in the best possible way and that any ethical issues must also be carefully assessed. Ultrasonic studies in pregnant women are currently being conducted on both medical and foetal diagnostic indications. All pregnant women are offered an ultrasound examination for weeks 17-19 of pregnancy. The purpose of this ultrasonic test is inter alia: to assess the length of pregnancy, determine the number of foetuses and the development of the foetus. Several teams have raised questions about expanding the public offer with an early ultrasound survey in weeks 11–13. An expert group set up by the Knowledge Centre has looked at the health effects, diagnostic accuracy and economic consequences of introducing an ultrasonic offer into the week 11–13 of pregnancy. The report of the expert group shall be examined by the National Council for Quality and Priority in the Healthcare Service on 5 December 2011, i.e. in less than one week. The Council will discuss whether there is sufficient evidence of health effects for mother or children for the Council to recommend early ultrasound as a public offer to all pregnant women. I have initiated a conference on 16 January next year, after the Council has taken its decision. There will be a wide-ranging discussion of the issues surrounding the possible introduction of early ultrasonics. Before any decision is taken by the government in this matter, it is important that all aspects of the question of early ultrasound be thoroughly addressed. The work of the National Council for Quality and Priorities and the debate at the Conference on 16 January will provide an important basis for government decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1005	I now see that I have written week 18 in the question, it should be week 12 – I am sorry. I didn't see it until now. I thank the Council of State for the answer and understand that a thorough treatment is being taken into account. I'm very happy about that. I hope that the conference that will be 16 January will also include a large group of users, relatives and perhaps even some who have Downs themselves. That's kind of one question. Otherwise, I would like to refer – and perhaps the Council of State has seen – to a family that just had a child with Downs. They were so happy about this that they released a lot of pictures and text on social media, and got a lot of ‘driving’ back. My question is, what can we do together to prevent and prevent this happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1016	I react just as strongly as anyone else, and like Laila Bavøy, to the fact that someone can make such statements to a child who parents have wanted, and who is loved in the same way as any other child. As far as we are concerned, we have to do the same thing as in many other fields – we have to work with our attitudes, and we have to work with attitudes in society. I just want to refer to the reform of mental retardation. At least I think the most important thing about that reform was not that each one got an apartment with so many square meters, but it was that every one who has a mental retardation became municipal people with municipal rights, in line with all of us. They became part of a cityscape – so they came out in the municipalities. I think it was the most important thing, because they have the exact same requirement for protection that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1023	I thank you for the answer, and I very much agree with that. I think we're completely in line. In terms of rights and equality for mentally retarded children with Downs and others, it is clear that we are working for it in our society. There's no one who doesn't want to say that this is very important. If we do that, and if at the same time we're going to choose to introduce early ultrasound, I think it'll be easy to see that it's legitimate to remove the child. Early ultrasound, as is now seen from the Knowledge Centre and from the Health Director, will primarily show whether the child has Downs or not. My question is: does the Council of State think that it might matter what we politicians do, that if we were to get to it, it could give out very negative signals to the mentally retarded and their relatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1032	I would be very careful to direct a request for early ultrasound that it might be just about revealing foetuses that had to have Down's syndrome. There may be other reasons for doing so. The point is that the National Council will deal with the matter on Monday, and we have called for a conference. Not least on the basis of questions and initiatives from the Storting in the past, we chose to do so, so that we can discuss this widely – a question that is very important, which has many ethical aspects and cost pages, and which we need to highlight in the broadest possible way. Then we might get back to the speculations about the debate. I want to say to me that it is important that all children are equally wanted and equally welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1043	This question, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1046	‘In the robberies agreement, it is stated: ‘Congealers must be included in the surveillance programme in line with the other predatory game species and the mapping of the royal eagle population must be completed as soon as possible. It is important to reduce the uncertainty associated with the number of nesting pairs of king eagles and the extent of damage caused by the king eagle on domestic animals and domestic animals.’ Stock is currently well above the stock target. In the Nord-Trøndelag there is considerable damage both on domestic animals and on domestic trains. When will the monitoring program be ready, and what will the state council do to manage the file in accordance with the file target?»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1053	The King’s ear was included in the surveillance programme for wild game in 2006. The King’s Eagle is being monitored today by identifying current and former fenced territories throughout the country, based on existing royal data from various actors collected and processed. The initial screening phase has now been completed in several areas. Robbery data, which is responsible for the methodology and operation of wild game surveillance, is now working further to establish the king eagle in the surveillance programme more in line with the large predators. A more intensive and long-term hedge monitoring of the species in selected areas is planned and will be launched during 2012. The 2012 draft budget proposes an increase of 2 million. kr to Rovdata in order to strengthen the surveillance of predatory game. The king eagle is widespread as a hedgehog in the whole country, with the exception of the southeastern part, where it appears more sporadic. The King’s Eagle is a totally satisfied species in Norway, and the starting point for the 2004 Robbery Agreement is that the royal eagle stock is to be managed in such a way that the population and prevalence are maintained at the level of the day. The stock estimate in 2004 was 850–1200 nesting pairs on a national basis. The national stock target established was considered to reflect the stock level as it actually was at the time, and that such stock level was assumed to be around the level that can be expected from the natural assumptions. Consequently, stock regulation of the royal eagle has not been relevant. Since 2004, significant monitoring has been carried out in the northernmost countries in particular. In 2008, the population was estimated to be approx. 1 150–1450 breeding pairs in Norway. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that the increase is primarily related to the improvement in the quality of the survey, and that it is less related to some real growth in the royal eagle population. The king eagle is one of several perpetrators in the North Throne layer, but with the exception of the wolf, the king eagle is the predator species from which at least damage is detected in this county. At the same time, there is a need for new knowledge about the royal eagle as a pest on grazing animals, as the Storting also points out in the predatory game agreement from this year. It would then be natural to consider the possibilities of viewing royal eagles as harmful to existing or future research projects. It is the county officials who are responsible for the administration of the royal eagle, as opposed to the large predators in which the predators have the administrative authority. If the royal eagle causes significant damage to domestic animals or domestic animals, the counties may authorise the killing of individual individuals if the conditions for killing are met. The Storting has adopted a new unanimous rapprochement, and there are no indications from Stortinget regarding the introduction of any new administration practices for monarchs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1066	I thank you for your answer. The population of the king eagle has increased significantly. There is a good piece above the 850–1,200 breeding pairs. The King's Eagle is not a species on the Red List in Norway either. I'm recording that there's no mention of any administration of the king eagle, and there are many who are worried about it. The losses in the Nord-Trøndelag are not decreasing, although preventive measures are being taken. It has been proven that the total size of the North Tronde Team is too large. It has great consequences both for grazing and not least for the southern Sami reindeer. So I have an additional question to the Council of State, even though I know he's not the right Council of State in a matter like this. The total wild game load in the North Throne layer is too high. I ask the council if he agrees that the total wild game load in the North Trøndelag, as it appears today, is too large.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1077	It has not been long since the parties of the Great Britain came to a new, unanimous settlement, where there were no leaders from the Great Britain about the introduction of any new administration practices for the Queen. But in the case of royal eagles, the trade unions agree that the queen has a tendency to what might be called an individual specialization in diets. That means that there will to a large extent be completely specific individuals of the queen who do damage, for example. in sheep, while other individuals do not. It also means that the killing regime we have today, where the county can allow the perpetrators to trap individuals, is sufficient to deal with any major damage. In other words, it's not necessarily the size of the population, but our ability to take out individual pests that will be crucial here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1084	I thank you for your answer. If we look at the issues that have been raised in the Nord-Trundelag, no permission will be granted for the extraction of pests when it concerns the royal eagle. It is at least the practice that is today. Otherwise, there is a very exciting research project in the Nord-Trøndelag, which has large connections among reindeer management organisations and others. I recorded that the Council of State stating that the monarch could become part of that research project. Today, that research project is about gloupe and you guys. We know that Rovdata is doing a very good job in terms of mapping, and that Rovdata is an important instance to be able to map and get the Kings in place. I have a wish that the Council of State will bring back to the Ministry of the Environment a strong desire from many that the King too be drawn into the research project that goes on you and gloat in the North-Tronde Team.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1095	I will take that with me to the Minister for the Environment and Development. We have a clear desire in our government to strike a reasonable balance between the protection of the predatory populations we are going to have in Norway and the opportunities to be able to live with livestock, with sheep farming and with domestic animals. Then we have to keep up with and get new knowledge about the different populations. As I said in my answer, that means we're going to look at the possibilities of getting royalty into existing research projects, possibly into future research projects. We agree that there is a need for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1108	This question, from the representative of Anita Orlund to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion, on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who is still away.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1111	‘Roadway 22 shall be extended from two to four fields between Lillestrøm and Fetsund. The extension of the road is fully regulated, and the county has approved the extension, but the matter is appealed to the Directorate for Nature Management, who has again asked the Ministry of the Environment to look into the matter. The situation has been in the ministry for a very long time, and local frustration is increasing in response to traffic problems. The Minister for the Environment and Development has previously stated that the matter should be decided in the autumn. When will the matter be decided?"
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1118	Extension of rv. 22 involves an intervention in the North Island nature reserve, which is the largest inland delta in Northern Europe. The reserve has the status of Ramsar area due to international importance for wetlands and migratory birds. The extension through the nature reserve therefore requires a derogation from the protection regulation. The County Party has granted a derogation for an extension of the road, but that derogation has been claimed by the Nature Conservation Association. The dispensation case is the final decision of the Directorate for Nature Management. In the context of the proceedings on the exemption case, the Directorate has contacted the Ministry of the Environment in order to clarify some of the issues relating to the establishment of replacement areas for the areas of the nature reserve that are being built up for road use. It has also been necessary to clarify some issues relating to Norway’s international commitments under the Ramsar Convention. I am concerned that in this case there is a decision that takes account of the need for a safe path, while maintaining the protection values of the North Eye and respecting international obligations. The Ministry is still working on clarifying the issues raised by the Directorate for Nature Management. The matter is a high priority, and the Minister for the Environment and Development expects a decision to be taken in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1127	I thank you for your answer. Traffic has been a challenge for a long time in this area, and after decades of debates and discussions on trasé elections, agreement has now actually been reached. And, as I said before, the regulation is kind of done. This area was protected in 1975, and the road that lies there today was built in 1980. Sometimes I feel like we're going to make a new path, but we're going to create a new field through this area. This agreed solution is now at stake precisely on the basis of the fact that we do not receive any clarification from the Ministry of the Environment. This is a road inside Oslopack3 and you are now signaling that you will have to postpone the project because you will not get any clarification on the progress. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that it is also important that the Ministry contributes positively, so that the project does not fall into the mire because of the inertia in answering questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1138	As I said in my reply, the Minister for the Environment and Development is prepared to help find a solution – and find that solution as soon as possible. But I want to make it clear that it's not slow to go thoroughly into difficult questions of principle. In this case, we shall take into account both the whole of the area of protection, and not least the international commitments that Norway has under the Ramsar Convention. What the government is concerned about is that we should take international conventions seriously, and a country that Norway often sets the standard for how others should comply with those kinds of international commitments. So we can't take it easy, but as I said, the Ministry of the Environment is now busy getting to a solution quickly and taking the goal of coming up with a solution in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1143	I thank you once again for your answer. I would like to say that if we do not get this project in place – and I agree that you should be thorough, and I agree that you should take into account everything that is of natural diversity etc. – the consequences become dramatically greater, because if you want to choose new routes for this route, the interventions will be significantly larger than what we're talking about here. The case was completed on 28 May 2010. Then we were informed by the Directorate of Nature Management that we could expect an answer in May 2011. So State Council Solheim answered in writing a question from Jan Tore Sanner that the matter was to be decided in the autumn. Then I asked if we should not do it so that today, 30 November, the last day of the harvest, we can make sure that we actually get a clarification on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1152	I think it would be wrong of me on my one day as the Council of State to build roads through protective areas. But I'm concerned that we're going to get a solution to this. The Ministry of the Environment says they'll get it done in a short time. It is sometimes the case that proceedings take a long time if they are to be sound. I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of the Environment has had good reasons to go into this thoroughly when there are important issues of principle that lie on the table, and when there are international Convention obligations that lie on the table, but what the representative receives in response is that the Minister for the Environment and Development has a clear commitment to give a reply within a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1161	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Compared with our neighbouring countries, the activity of our forests is too low in terms of forest management, investment and activity in general. What will the Council of State do to ensure that both public and private forest owners will voluntarily increase their activity in the forest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1170	There is little doubt that our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, are doing much more intensive forestry than what we are doing here at home. Both of these countries produce a quantity close to the annual production of forest in terms of growth, while in Norway less than half of the annual growth rate is recorded. The demand for timber and timber governs the harvest, and the government emphasises that, if demand increases, provision should be made for increased sustainable logging. We need to use the whole country with our rich resource base to increase value creation and strengthen local communities. This is also in line with St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009 Climate challenges — agriculture as part of the solution and its treatment by the Storting, and in line with the Storting’s 2005 request decision on national strategies for increased harvesting. It is also important that increased activity in forestry is accompanied by reinforced environmental considerations as referred to in St.meld. No 39, and that the maximum increase must be followed up with good rejuvenation efforts to ensure the conservation and construction of forest resources for future generations. We are working hard to improve the framework conditions for forestry, including: in the annual budgetary processes, so that forest resources can contribute to increased value creation and positive climate and energy contributions. The government has delivered. Subsidies to various economic and environmental measures in forestry over the agricultural agreement and the Agricultural Development Fund have increased significantly, to 229 million. kr in 2011. It's an increase in relation to the Bondevik government of just over 80 million. kr. Subsidies from the State budget for value added and climate action in forestry have also increased, to around 70 million. SEK in 2011 from less than 40 million. kr in the last draft budget of the Bondevik Government. The Forest Fund Scheme, which is a compulsory fund provision and a fiscal instrument aimed at long-term investments in forests, was significantly strengthened in 2007. Among other things, the tax-free share of forest funds used was increased from 60 pst. to 85 pst. In 2008, a separate grant pot of 5 million was put in place. addressing specific challenges in coastal forest use, which have increased from 2009 to today to 10 million. kr. These schemes contribute to increased activity in forestry and trigger private investment, including infrastructure measures, which are essential for the availability and profitable use of forest resources. In addition, the market and forest owners are the main decision-makers in order to increase the activity of forestry in the framework of existing legislation and the environmental standard of forestry and in relation to supply and demand in international markets. The question raised by the representative, Mr Bredvold, will otherwise be dealt with in the Communication to the European Parliament on the Agricultural and Food Policy to be submitted to the European Parliament at the beginning of December. With the involvement of the representative Bredvold in this matter, I also expect the support of the Progress Party on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1183	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is a fact that only approx. One third of growth in Norway. I think it was 8 million. m3, and the growth rate is approx. 25-digit number It is also a political objective that we should increase the yield in relation to growth, so that the yield is about about. Fifteen million. m3. We're a long way from that. Then we can also talk a little bit about political objectives and demand. In our neighbouring country, Finland, is mowed approx. 80 pst. of the growth rate. Finland is a large forest country, with a high growth rate and a resultant cropping. One might imagine that there is a slightly different policy in Finland for how this should work – because there it works. It may be that, among other things: has something to do with tax policy. I want a little clearer answers from the Council of State on what he wants to contribute, so that we increase growth and increase yield.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1200	It is important to stress that growth in Norwegian forests has increased significantly year by year in the last 100 years. It was completely derelict in Norway in the early 1900s. Today, we have built forests on a large scale, almost unparalleled in relation to others in Europe. It's true that today we're taking out approx. a third party to the growth rate. But it's important to stress that it's actually the market that determines how much we can take out, and how much is profitable to take out. It depends, of course, on the international market for wood products, both for cellulose products and for other products made of wood and not least on the national market. There have been great fluctuations in recent years as a result of the previous financial crisis, and now we are also alarmed by the crisis in Europe. So the market has a big impact on the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1207	I thank you for your answer. It is a fact that there are very many small forest owners in Norway. It is also a fact that, after the previous tax decision, when forest became revenue instead of capital income, the harvest fell. It sank especially in those with small or medium-sized properties. I think it's quite alarming that there is no economy – because that's what it's about – to cut the forest and to harvest that is relative to the growth you have, and could have had, because there's no doubt that the growth could have been even greater than it is today, with proper forest management. But correct forest management also means that you have income.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1214	The representative, Bredvold, points to an important point. It's important with proper care, it's important to plant, and it's important that we stagger and thin the forest in order to optimise production in the forest at all times. It's also true, as the representative Bredvold says, that we have many small forest owners in Norway. The challenge here is, in many cases, also to find cooperative solutions between forest owners, so that – call it – the rationalisation of forest management is achieved by the many small ones, so that they can cooperate on harvesting and make it more profitable. In terms of fiscal conditions, we have very favourable forestry systems today. You have the Forest Fund system. It is clear that we have significantly improved it in our period. I just want to stress that it is important to care for and use the Forest Fund scheme and in this way ensure that we get better use of the forest for value creation. The market is what decides, and then we get to use tax measures as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1226	The question goes to the Minister for Agriculture and Food: ‘It is a wish from parts of the forest industry that most timber and timber products are transported by rail, as opposed to today where most is transported by car. What will the Council of State contribute to to the voluntary development of the transition from transport by car to transport by rail where this is more economic and appropriate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1235	The question posed by the representative, Mr Bredvold, is very much about transport policy, which the Minister of Transport is the closest to answering. However, given that the forestry industry is a significant transport user, and that cost-effective transport is very important for the competitiveness of the forest industry, I would nevertheless like to make a few comments on the questions raised by the representative, Mr Bredvold. The broad lines of government transport policy and the basis for effective use of instruments and interactions between modes of transport by road, rail, air and sea are addressed in the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019. Considerable efforts have been made here, which will also be very important for the transport of timber, biofuels and processed products by the forest sector to domestic and foreign payment markets. This also applies to rail. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I am committed to working for competitive framework conditions for the transport of forestry by road, rail and boat, in cooperation with the transport authorities. As part of this, the State Agriculture Administration, in cooperation with the Railway Agency, on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Transport, has identified possibilities and restrictions for increased transport of timber by rail. The report Enhanced rail transport was presented in November 2010. The report points to several measures on priority terminals and crossing tracks in the East and elsewhere, which will rapidly improve capacity for works transport of up to 600 000 m3 to a total cost framework of around 200 million. kr. The government's following up on this. To reopen closed sidings for, among others. timber terminals established the Ministry of Transport in 2010 a new support scheme for enterprises that will invest in new sidings and terminals, or will restore old ones. That's set of 5 million. kr to the scheme on the budget of the Railway Agency for 2011. An investigation has also been carried out as regards the need for berth terminals and for the transport of timber by boat in the coastal region. Yesterday, I received a report prepared by SINTEF on behalf of coastal forestry, which points to the fact that the improvement and reconstruction of up to 60 small and medium-sized berths can have a major impact on the transport of timber, but also on other coastal activities. My department has for a long time provided some financial support for the establishment of timber brands, and we now need to look at this report and clarify the extent to which it facilitates good cooperation solutions in order to improve the transport of timber by sea. I am very concerned about that, and a good tool for it is the report that came yesterday. I assume that these investigations will provide a good basis for further work to facilitate the increased transition of forest industry transport from road to rail and boat where this is appropriate and not least profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1251	The President shares the view of the Council of State that this issue is at best at the intersection of the Minister of Transport with the Minister of Agriculture and Food — and perhaps the Minister of Transport should have answered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1254	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is not just about traffic, it is also about the environmental focus of the forestry industry. Especially in Europe, the environmental focus is on products to be sold. It is clear that if we have a handling of our product like this. polluting a lot, it is more difficult to sell than a similar product which contaminates less on its way to the finished product. This is about the forest industry and how to treat the product from the forest to where it is to be sold – along the way. That's why I asked this question. For example: Hedmark is two companies that transport on the railway in addition to the NSB, and it's CargoNet and a company called Peterson Rail AB. It is clear that much more could have been transported on the railway instead of on the road whose things had been right for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1263	I want to confirm what Bredvold emphasises, that an environmental focus in the forest industry is important, and it is also working very actively both in the transport sector and in other areas of sustainable forestry. As I underlined, an investigation has been carried out, measures have been implemented, and there is money set for upgrading timber terminals and other activities that increase rail traffic. It provides a significant boost in the profitability of transport, with significantly improved profitability for the forest owner by using the railway, so it is important that we continue to do things to make better use of the railway. I mean, we've done it. The same applies to any transition with regard to the large resources built up along the coast, using maritime transport, which is environmentally also very good, and with which we now have a good tool to work on, together with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1272	I thank the Council once again for the answer. I believe that there must be even more cooperation between the Minister for Agriculture and Food and the Minister for Transport, because it is clear that there are some shortcomings in the transport network. In the case of timber transport in particular, there is a shortage of terminals and the terminals are too small and too short, and in addition, the capacity is congested. It is desirable that, where economically and environmentally sound, most of the timber should travel by rail. In addition, there are crossing tracks, which are also very lacking. I hope, on the basis of this question, that the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Agriculture and Food will engage in even more in-depth discussions, so that we get a product that keeps the environmental focus in relation to the forest industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1281	It is gratifying that I can say that we agree on the ambitions and have a willingness to do something in this area. It is important that we work to improve the terminals, both in scale and size. That's right, as the representative Bredvold stresses, that there is a need for it, and we're working on it. The second point is the intersection track, as mentioned. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food works closely with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries to facilitate the transition to both rail and sea. It is unconditionally more profitable for the forest owner and the forest industry, and it also provides unconditionally better environmental solutions and better climate footprints. This is a challenge we're working on further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1292	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions: ‘Following the look-up in the FiskeriblagetFiskaren of 14 November 2011, the Directorate for Nature Management and the Sameting concludes in a report that all future breeding in Finnmark must take place in closed facilities to ensure the wild axis. There is also reason to note that the State representative in the county, the county, is also behind the opinion. This makes the government’s argument about the extension of the maximum permitted biomass within the Finnish and Troms farming industry in a strange light. Do the Councils share the views of the Directorate?»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1301	I have been informed by the Ministry of the Environment that this media release is based on a misunderstanding. A work committee has been set up for consultations between the Directorate for Nature Management, DN, and the Sametinget on the regulation of salmon fishing in North Troms and Finnmark. When the Bureau's report was presented, it was presented as a request by the Directorate for Nature Management for closed farms in Finnmark. However, the representative of the Directorate spoke on behalf of the Bureau. The Directorate for Nature Management has subsequently prepared this in the media. With regard to future breeding technologies, I believe that we should make technology-neutral regulatory requirements. I don't think anyone can predict which technological solutions will be most suitable in the future. We have asked both the Norwegian Research Council and Innovation Norway to prioritise the development of more environmentally friendly aquaculture technology, but without pointing to specific solutions. I believe that the authorities should demand what impact is acceptable, and then the farming industry and equipment manufacturers must develop the solutions that meet environmental requirements while taking advantage of our natural advantage for salmon farming. Just the requirements for acceptable environmental impact were the reason why I put it at risk and announced the increase in production capacity in 2010. In the process that followed, I was clear that capacity expansion was only relevant in those areas where leaching levels were within acceptable limits, resistance development was under control, and other measures taken to reduce leaching problems had shown efficacy. Troms and Finnmark met these requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1312	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good preparation. This lookup has actually led to new questions related to who decides what, and it says what, in terms of the farming industry, because here you are at the intersection of the wild and farmed fish. It becomes a little strange if a person who, by working in the Directorate of Nature Management, joins a working committee with the Sameting, pronounces one thing as a member of a labour committee, but does not issue a paper to the Directorate. So this is going to be the closest thing to a parody to do. I hope that the Council of State will grasp it, and make sure that her colleague Erik Solheim also follows this up against his people and his directorates. My question to the Council of State in this situation is: Will the Council of State now look at whether elsewhere in the country that is in control of the development of resistance and the lice problem can also increase MTB?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1321	Only to clarify the responsibilities: there is no doubt that the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is responsible for the operating conditions of the aquaculture industry as well as for the influence of the wild species. But then, as the representative of Nesvik says, we have an intersection, because we have an environmental protection ministry with underlying agencies to provide technical advice to the government, advice that I naturally take into account in my work, even though the department we are talking about here, the Directorate for Nature Management, is subject to my colleague, the Minister for Environment and Development. When it comes to future growth, I've been very clear that this year we use absolutely to get the lice situation under control. Fortunately, we have seen positive results beyond the fall. But I'm not in a situation now where I'm ready to say where and when we're going to grow. Otherwise, I don't think the farming industry is extremely concerned about having more fish in the mermaids right now. I think they're working enough as it is, at least so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1328	The background to my question is also the discussion that has occurred in the past between the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and not least the underlying Directorates, which are so-called freelance Directorates, which are acting in different ways just linked to the wildfish and farmed fish. It is important that at least the government has one another's policy. That is why I challenged the Council of State to contact her colleague to ensure that the policy presented is coherent. Speaking of the environmental situation, we had a new situation yesterday. It will not be answered here by the Council of State, because I have already sent a written question to the Council of State today, so we will have to take it another way. My question to the Council of State is related to the pilot project of seine fish on land and how large the fish can be before they are put to war. I know the Council of State has started a work to get something done about it. Can the Council say anything about where the work is going today, and if one can now start the pilot project to have the fish on land longer before it is launched?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1337	I just want to stress that the government has one's policy in this area. The policy adopted by the government offices is identical and uniform. There's no doubt about it. When it comes to the question of the size of set fish, it's something we're working on. I can also only add when I am invited to contact my colleague in the Ministry of the Environment, that I have very good contact with him, among others. on this issue. Here are some professional questions relating to the amount of work for those who are going to process the applications. But there's no doubt, I think, that having the fish on land is a measure that will be positive for many reasons, not only in terms of lice, but perhaps also in terms of escape. It's a work that's going on in the department, and I hope we'll be able to conclude relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1348	‘The Board of Governors continues its practice of depriving fathers of the quota, and several people experience arbitrary proceedings because the Council of State has not made a simpler regulation, as parents and Nav have called for. The same applies to families who are today sentenced to pay living quarters to eligible children who move out on a voluntary basis. Here, the Council of State has promised changes to the legislation. Is it true that the Council of State is a delay for simpler legislation related to his department's cooperation with Nav, and what is done to advance this work?'
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1355	Some fathers have experienced that they are not allowed to take parental leave because they have not applied in time for the Employment and Welfare Seat for deferral. It's unfortunate. The aim is for parents entitled to parental leave to withdraw the parental leave. In the last six months, the Ministry has received some enquiries from fathers who have not received parental leave because of late application, and since then have been in dialogue with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare on the matter. As I have previously informed the representative, Mr Kambe, the department sent a letter to the Directorate on 4 July this year. In the letter, the ministry asks that the department handle these matters with a slightly greater flexibility. The State of work and welfare is now re-examining issues in which fathers have been refused because the application is late. This matter continues to follow the Department closely, and we will consult with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to assess new measures if we see that it is necessary to clean up that situation. However, I would like to stress that the Labour and Welfare Act manages the parental pension scheme within the current legislation, and they cannot, of course, pay benefits if the conditions for it are not present. Parent pen must be removed continuously from the start of the procurement and may be suspended only under certain conditions. It will require a change in the law if parents are to be given the opportunity to take parental leave at any time before the child reaches the age of three. The Ministry has started work on simplifying the parental pension scheme. I believe that there is a potential to make this system simpler on a number of points. This will include an assessment of the conditions for deferral. It is too early to say when work will be completed and what changes will be proposed, but it will. Regarding the question of a contribution to children after the age of 18 after the Children's Act, I refer to the answer given to a question for a written answer on 26 January. That question was also asked by the representative of Kambe. The review of the scheme, which was then promised, is under way. It is difficult to give an exact timeline for further work, including: because we have to send any proposals for changes at general consultation. Experience has shown that such processes take some time. But we're doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1368	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State says that there are ‘some fathers’ who have experienced difficulties in being deprived of their father’s quota. My numbers say it's close to 1,000. Hundreds of fathers have lost that right, and what is quite alarming for very many of the fathers who contact me regularly, weekly, is that they experience an arbitrary treatment from various Nav procedural offices, then an arbitrary treatment – I have seen many evidence of that, with a copy of correspondence – from the Board of Appeal. Then the Social Security Court has just returned nine cases to Nav for a new treatment, while the Social Security Court has also rejected some of the cases that Nav has subsequently changed. It's a rather remarkable procedure, and a lot of fathers lose their paperwork, even though they stay within the three-year deadline. The question then is: will the Council of State contribute to Nav's consistent practice, so that all fathers can now have the opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1375	The answer to that is, of course, yes, the aim is for Nav to have a consistent practice. That's why we have initiated the dialogue we now have with the agency. Of course, it is difficult for me to go into the cases when I am not better aware of the individual issues related to the basis – there may be different grounds on which Nav refuses. We have addressed the question of the deadline for applying. There's a lot to do about the information that comes from Nav to fathers who are going to apply for leave. I have also previously taken the initiative to get a review of that. I think some problems lie in unclear communication initially about what kind of rights and rules apply. Then, of course, we'll continue to go through the examples we get on fathers who don't get their leave, to correct what may be of practices that prevent fathers from getting what they're going to get, and which I and our government are very concerned that they're going to have the opportunity to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1380	Nav has proposed in a letter to the department of Lysbakken to have a general rule regarding the three-year rule. It'll make it easier for Nav, it'll make it easier for families, it'll make it easier for everyone to relate to. The Council of State indicates that a change in the law will then be necessary. It's a law change I think Stortinget will meet with no problems. It will make it easier for all parties, less bureaucracy, fewer legal conflicts and more time for the family. So to my second question, about authoritative children who voluntarily move out, and the parents are charged with duty. Yes, something was said in January on my question, that a project has been started. In May I got a unanimous committee to say that this was obviously not the intention of the legislator, and then I had hoped that the council had a different answer than working on it, because that was what they said in January. It is not long before December, and it should have been possible to draw up conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1387	Signals relating to the three-year rule have been received. It's always good to know that the opposition wants changes before they come, and we're going to work on it. What was well said in January was that a work was to be started, and it is started, and is something we are doing now. So the time in the meantime is used well. We are well in the process of doing that, and I look forward to being able to inform the Storting further about the concrete proposals when we are ready, if necessary, with proposals for the changes that may be necessary. As we explained earlier this year, there are dilemmas about this, but we also have no problem with the ministry's view of the problem of how this is being practised today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1392	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-30.ana.ud328e1405	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that no one is asking for the floor before the meeting is cancelled. - The meeting's been cancelled.
