ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e43	The representative Borghild Tende, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e51	On behalf of the representatives of Solvency Horne, Harald T. Nesvik, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to propose a representative proposal for the abolition of the so-called Brustad Bua and for the liquidation of the opening hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e56	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e109	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Members of the government get five minutes. The President will state that the Minister for Transport will have 5 minutes of the Workers' Party's speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e122	I want to start this budget debate by quoting from the National Government of Liv Signe Navarsete on October 21. There, Navarsete said: ‘We need a system reform that ensures both popular governance and a more offensive and long-term development of roads and railways in Norway. All reasonableness implies that the system needs to be changed.’ I agree very much with Navarsete when she says that we need a more offensive and long-term development of both road and rail, and also that all reason now suggests that we have a system change. The red-green government now has its seat for six years. Over the course of the six years, it has become clear that the transport sector needs to be renewed. At their 2009 national meeting, the Labour Party said that they wanted more rational progress on major transport projects through project funding. It spelled both on the road and on the railway. The government has set up some projects on its own budget items. This is what the government calls project finance. But of course it isn't. It is a mistake when the government says this solution is more conservative. Own entries are only one way to make the annual permissions visible. The Oslo-Ski line is set up at a separate post. E16 over File Mountain is set up for a separate post. Both projects are far behind the form. More and more people see that we need to organise better, we need to plan better, we need to change the way we finance the development. The Bondevik II administration initiates a renewal process. We challenge tasks in the state road system. We're starting a reorganization of the Railway Agency. Then they took red-green over. There was a stop in the renewal work. In the middle of the conversion, the brakes were switched on, and we now see the result. Yes, the vows have increased, and the Christian People's Party has voted for each crown. However, the Norwegian transport debate is not allowed, cannot and should not be limited to how much is allowed from year to year. But today I still think we're going to hear a lot of words about the government's bet. I would like to stress that the government is behind the form. She is behind the form agreed in Stortinget, and she is also behind her own form when it comes to investments for road and rail. When Stortinget adopted the National Transport Plan in 2009, there were clear targets for what was to be agreed. It doesn't follow the rule. After three out of four years in the planning period, the government has raised 2 billion. kr less for road construction than the size of its time. In the case of investments in the railways, less is allowed than envisaged. In the election campaign, state councilman Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said that we would get a top modern name within 20 years. I'm not sure if we can reach that goal if we set the pace we have in the 2012 state budget. The main focus now needs to be on how we can bring about a renewal of the sector that will provide a more reliable rail, more and safer route and make it more accessible in our cities. For businesses and people to be able to use the land, we depend on good transportation. What is a good transport policy? According to the government’s own words, planning some roads in Norway is taking place today for 15 years. It's too long. The formal planning processes are to be implemented and policy treatment is to be done, both locally, regionally and nationally. But we need to streamline the planning processes. We need to get better roads, new roads — faster. Too large a project, we have to have ambitions to halve the planning time. We must be willing to use a government plan when necessary, and the state must coordinate its interests more effectively than what is happening today. But we also need to use new tools. Public-private cooperation has been shown to be successful. It's just to point out the distance between Grimstad and Kristiansand, which was opened a few years ago. We must have a fund structure in place. We need to reorganise the Railway Agency and the State Road Service so that they have a freer role and become less dependent on the annual promises of the State budget. Growth in public expenditure is strong. The total cost of pensions and social security is now 320 billion. kr. That's about a third of the state budget. Norway uses oil revenues to a large extent to finance a shy welfare country, but to a lesser extent to invest in infrastructure. We need to lay a greater foundation for future growth by investing in infrastructure. It will ensure long-term well-being. We have to get away from the idea that a penny spent on transportation is an exhausted crown. We need a new course. That's why the Christian People's Party is proposing an infrastructure fund with a 50-billion-dollar framework. kr. The fund’s return shall be in addition to the ordinary state budget fees. To the Christian People's Party his draft budget: In our alternative budget, we propose to increase the transport budget by 780 million. kr. This would increase aid to the Rescue Company by 30 million. kr. That'll be a 10 million-dollar promotion effort. kr. We increase the road and rail routes by 561 million. kr. We're betting on more and better bike paths of 125 million. kr, and not least we have collective measures in cities of 80 million. kr. I also want to bring forward a matter that I feel is particularly positive in the budget. The TT regime is particularly important for those to whom this scheme applies. Getting a new and modern TT system that not least hits younger users better, I see that the government is now adding up through testing schemes. Before the 2009 enlargement elections, all candidates for Stortinget were challenged on that very matter. It turned out that there was a multiple in this room to get a new and improved TT system. I feel that the proposal now presented by the State Council, Mr Kleppa, in this budget is a first step towards a new, modern and better TT regime, and I am particularly pleased that the Council of State has prioritised it. So it's important that we also reach our measure when it comes to bicycles. We see that the part of the cyclists has gone down. He has fallen significantly from a 20-year perspective, but also from 2005 to 2009 the figure has fallen from 5 pst. to 4 pst. That is why the Christian People's Party is proposing a strengthening of bicycle and pedestrian routes to stimulate more cycling. I also want to comment on important areas related to our coast and our fairways. Here I experience our impatience when it comes to getting more from the way to the sea – it goes too slowly. Nevertheless, this budget is a step in the right direction by reducing taxes in some areas. But I would have liked to see that we had taken faster steps. Finally, I would like to briefly mention the other propositions that are to be voted on today. This applies to Chapters of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and Police. The plurality of the Committee agrees with the government's proposal, and I expect that the parties themselves will do well if there is a need for clarification beyond that. With this I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e176	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e181	I will give tribute to the representative and to the Christian People's Party for their strong climate and environmental exposure. Toward the end of his post today, Hareide was in the midst of the exposure to bicycle betting. There I experience that the red-green parties and the Christian People's Party have had very good cooperation and underlined the importance of getting good walking and cycling paths. Now we are in a situation where several cities are implementing important elements of the reward scheme. However, we are concerned, because we see that several of the cities appear to have difficulties in following up the clear objectives of the Storting not only to focus on collective action but also on measures that can reduce traffic – traffic-restrictive measures. The mountain is one of these cities. The mountain is a city that has had major problems with particulate matter, and that will have major challenges related to growth. My question to the representative is whether he will be an active driver because his people in the municipality of Bergen will support traffic-restrictive measures when the next... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e192	Yes, I want to be an active driver for all of our big cities to be willing to also use restrictive measures. I think it's absolutely necessary both for us to get a better air environment in our cities, and for us to reach the climate targets. That's the one part. The second part is that I mention that we need to focus more on collective action in cities, too, because it is important that those who travel experience that we have good alternatives. I wasn't much into it in my post today, but I think this is one of the most important initiatives in the work on the next national transport plan: how can we ensure better collective action against our big cities? That's where we now see the big population growth. I think that a group of political Norway has underestimated both the need for good plans and the need to bet on the big cities, and that is not least about solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e201	Also in the Advancement Party there is great joy over souls who find the good and the right way! In the context of the state budget and the roll-over of NTP and in a number of other contexts, the Progress Party has proposed the creation of infrastructure funds, where the return is to be used to finance investment in the road and rail sectors. The Christian People's Party has turned its deaf ear to. That is why, with great joy, the Progress Party in this budgetary round notes that the Christian People's Party has seen the light and wants infrastructure funds. What has caused the Christian People's Party to change its view, and where has the Christian People's Party added the 50 billion. kr that they want in their fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e208	The Christian People's Party has been busy getting a long-term expansion of transportation. That's why we think it's right to have a fund of 50 billion. kr. But we're doing this within a responsible framework, and that is, when we choose to spend 50 billion dollars. kr of our oil fund for transportation, so we can't use other oil money in other areas. It is necessary to be taken within what I would call a responsible health care. When it comes to some of the challenges of the Progress Party's alternative budget, I will quote Gunnar Stavrum, editor of the Net newspaper. He commented on the Progress Party's alternative budget and said that the alternative budget is like adopting good weather. We can't do that. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that when we are now betting on transportation, then the idea – when we were going to spend oil money – was that we were going to spend this on transportation, on things in the economy that give a greater growth. That's what the Christian People's Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e215	I want to thank our distinguished leader for a very good article. He also turned out to be a good footballer, and when he plays teams with SV, he wins! So now I have two challenges for the representative Hareide. The one went on: When Hareide was in government, the councils of the State of Merchants ran from Left 1.3 billion. kr to railway. Now this government is allowing 12.5 billion. kr for railway purposes – positive development? Can Hareide imagine joining SV on a Swiss model, where we use the petrol charge? That was the one question. The second question is about maintenance. The national audit says that the model that the Christian People's Party was introducing costs a lot more money, has more bureaucracy and leads to poorer maintenance. More than 300 million. kr we lose on that model – or 5 miles with a mid pull. Does Hareide want it to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e227	I want to answer a clear yes. I think it is very good that we have had a significant increase in investment and increased rail clearances. It is absolutely necessary. At the same time: when we see the permits in a longer perspective, not least the railway has had too little permissions over a long, long period, and we have to pay the costs for that today. At the same time, I think that there's not just extra permissions that are the solution to the challenge we have on the railway. We also have to get a renewal, and part of that renewal should be, I think, how we finance the railway in the future. I do not want to answer yes that we are included in a petrol tax, because we have not discussed it. But the Christian People's Party is busy ensuring a good and stable funding for the railway ahead, and that is among other things. therefore we propose an infrastructure fund of 50 billion. kr in our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e234	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e238	The contrast is great between the – relatively – peaceful budget debates that we have in this room this fall, and the scenes we are now seeing take place in other countries in Europe. Outside our windows here, we see people rushing past Christmas shopping. In other countries, the budget debates meet with great demonstrations and violent clashes, as we saw in Greece yesterday. Europe is in a very serious economic crisis. The world around us is marked by great economic uncertainty. Unemployment is alarmingly high, especially among the youngest. Several European countries need to implement drastic cuts in their budgets, leading to further high unemployment and a reduction in welfare. State leaders work overtime to find solutions to the crisis, and desperation is increasing among people. The distance could almost not be greater to the Norwegian budget debate. But although there are no demonstrators who meet us when we adopt next year's state budget, we have no guarantee that we in Norway can also experience a new severe setback in the economy, which both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have underlined. We are already receiving messages from some parts of the export-oriented industry, which experience difficult times. That is why we must be prepared. The economic crisis is in many ways the report of a notified murder, to quote a well-known book title. There have been many warnings that this situation could arise. High government debt, high deficits and high unemployment rates in many countries have been critical factors. Unsocial tax cuts have enhanced the distribution effect. It is the result of a misguided policy that Norway has not been in the same economic situation. The red-green government has led a safe and responsible economic policy, while building and further developing a well-run society with a high level of competence, good welfare systems and stable business framework. The government has submitted a tight budget. However, where other countries have had to carry out large cuts, we have found room to continue to invest in education, research and transport. That's how we build Norway, and that's how we equip ourselves for the future. What is the opposition's response to these challenges? There is an active reduction in the situation in Norway, an out-of-date and immature fiscal policy from which the rest of Europe is moving away, the construction of large sovereign debt through extensive use of OPS – also a policy that country-by-country departs, not least because it is an important factor in the crisis that has arisen in several European countries. One of the privileges of sitting on the Transport Committee is that we have to visit all of Norway. Through the many meetings with people and businesses around the country, we get a solid impression of the challenges facing the nation, ranging from the marine environments of Senja in the north to Kværner on Stord in the west – representatives of industries that are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the economy and which have its most important market in Europe. There are two main messages to be met everywhere: firstly, that the government must continue to keep the economy in order, and secondly, that the government must invest in transport. We have a business in this country that is completely dependent on a good infrastructure. To get the fish from the sea outside Senja to a dinner table in France, the port infrastructure and roads must be good, affordable and safe. If the wholesale supply industry is to have good access to labour and goods, road standards, air services and ferry services must be optimal. That is why the red-green majority continues on the historic journey promise that we started in 2005. I noticed that the committee chairman called for a structural change. I believe that the structural change came in 2005. Then the red-green government began to do as the Storting had decided. We are stepping up the appropriations in 2012 by 2.4 billion. kr for both road, rail and sea transport in accordance with the agreed national transport plan. For the next year, ten major new road projects will receive start-up appropriations, and several of these projects will also start construction in 2012 — among others, the population. Rena in Hedmark and Us in Hordaland can rejoice over. We are continuing the maintenance effort that we started this year, with an increase of 60 pst. for road maintenance. In three years we've paved 13,000 km of road, it's as far as Alta to Damascus and back again. We have stopped due and are now in the process of resuming the maintenance kit. In 2008, the National Racial Protection Group presented a requirement for the country to use 1 billion. kr on racial protection every year. In 2010 we met the requirements – as the first government, and we have continued this effort. Therefore, racial protection is finally realised on the way out to the municipality of Torsken, at the extreme of Senja, after decades of struggle between local business and the population. Today, the state road service is trading for 14 billion dollars. kr more this year than 2005. We're the Nordic country that spends the most money on transportation, and this year we spend 12 billion. kr more than Sweden on road construction. We've more than quadrupled the investments in the railways since we took over. On the Swedish side of the border, we see that the bourgeois government is now implementing solid cuts. We're increasing the rail budget by another 1 billion. kr in 2012. The red-green investment has made it possible to realize a modern railway between Oslo and Drammen which shortens travel time. In 2012, the final stage is taken in the solid and necessary upgrading of the railway through central parts of Oslo. Next year we will also purchase 50 new train sets that will greatly improve train provision and quality. A few weeks ago, the committee was visiting the Coastal Works in Ålesund, and could hear the coast manager say that she has experienced that the red-green majority has almost doubled her budget since she began her position four and a half years ago. And we're continuing the escalation. Therefore, the construction of fishing ports in Vannvåg in Karlsøy municipality can be accelerated one year – until 2012, together with the construction of a number of other ferries and fishing ports. BarentsWatch will be established, which will ensure better monitoring of the vulnerable marine areas in the north. I have to mention in particular two changes we have made since the budget was presented. We've added 10 million to the Rescue Company's budget. kr. The rescue company has a big place in our red-green heart, and plays a central role in the safety of the sea. We are concerned that the service must be operational along the whole coast. Extra appropriations do not require the rescue services to put the rescue skates in Skjervøy and Egersund on land. We're also increasing the walking and cycling budget by 20 million. kr. Since 2010, we have more than doubled this budget, to now almost 400 million. kr, and we are particularly concerned about securing school roads, so that kids can get safe at school. The infrastructure effort in the year’s budget shows the red strand of the red-green web: a better-developed road, rail and port infrastructure strengthens competitiveness, increases employment and provides more well-being. Racially safe roads such as The Rising Beach in More and Romesdal and Rv. 13 in Ryfylke ensures the promotion of freight transport. The commitment to road safety measures, such as the middle parts and the construction of walking and cycling paths, provides greater security for all of us. When the upgrading of the railway through Oslo leads to nine out of ten trains now moving punctually, there is also welfare policy. This means that you reach the job when you have to and that you are sure that you reach the kindergarten before it closes because the train goes when it needs to. Some words about the final option of the opposition. What is the alternative of the right-hand side to the serious situation we're in now? Right-wing representatives, at the end of the financial debate, are trying to teach us about asset tax cuts and the use of OPS and claim that this is modern. But it's the right that's posted. They will use more of the medicine that has led Europe into crisis, with its irresponsible cut and its OPS airlocks. It is reassuring that the Right has not learned from the bitter experiences of many European countries now. This also applies to the blind belief of the right-hand side in OPS, and I record that in this budget they have also brought with them the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. The fact that representatives of the Right – probably also later today – have repeatedly called innovation has led to the departure of more and more countries in Europe. Right British and Swedish politicians' traps kutter e.g. the use of OPS because it limits the scope of economic action and reinforces the impact of the financial crisis. So they don't want Right-wing renewal. The use of OPS is one of the main reasons why many European countries have now incurred so much debt, including: former Governor Svein Gedrem has pointed out on several occasions. In other words, the Right is an incomplete and quite daunting prescription: more of what we see is not working in Europe. It's not renewal, it's just stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e275	The representative Bjørnflaten says that the government is complying with the national transport plan. I have the budget paper from the government here, and there is definitely evidence that in many areas the national transport plan is not being met. It might be interesting to know how to satisfy something you say in the document that you're not doing. The bear face says she's very negative about setting up new state companies on the road and rail. Then my question is very specific: Is Avinor a good way to finance infrastructure, or is it a bad way? And if that's a good way: why can't you do it in the other two cases? The representative Langeland will take tolls from the drivers and use them to build the railway. Can the representative Bjørnflaten say that the Workers' Party will support this, or will they not? It is very nice if she can answer yes or no, so that everyone is aware of what the Workers' Party believes about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e284	First of all, I want to say, yes, the red-green government is the first government to take the Storting seriously, and that takes the Storting on the word and meets the national transport plan. We did it when we took over in 2005. This has not happened before. We overfilled the national transport plan then, and we still have the historical commitment to transport that we started when we took over in 2005. Therefore, I feel for a very safe reason when I say that we are going to deliver in relation to the escalation of the national transport plan. So to new state enterprises: first of all, I have to say that I am afraid that the Progress Party will be unemployed if we are to separate more modes of transport as state enterprises, when we look at the degree of detail management that the Progress Party uses, not least in this budget. How the Progress Party would be able to fill its days if we separated several companies, I'm not sure. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] We believe that this is a solution that will not work optimally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e291	At this point in the debate, the President will remember that punctuality is likely to become a topic during the day, and then I hope it can also apply to speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e294	I just want to say to the Bear Face that this reality description, and the history description, is fewer and fewer who believe in. It must be a little cross-thinking. Then I must also note that no one has financed the loan more in transport than this government. We're now up to 50 pst. of road construction in this country. The bear face mentioned Europe and the impulses we get on our journeys. Yeah, we really get that, we're trying to learn and take it home. It is not as fast with the government as it is with part of the opposition parties, but some of the government parties seem to be moving – and the National Labour Party meeting adopted project funding in spring. My question to the Bjørnflaten is: is she disappointed that the Labour Party's national meeting decision has not been followed up in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e303	I have noticed that the world looks quite different from Bømlo than from Tromsø. That's something I'm assuming we're going to spend another couple of years discussing. When I'm on my journeys, I learn that people actually recognize the work that we're doing now in refurbishment of the infrastructure. Yes, we have major challenges, but I feel that not least in the business community they are quite clear that they see that we have started a grip that it was time to start. So to the National Meeting of the Workers' Party: I believe that the National Assembly of the Workers' Party took a very good, a very wise and a very forward-looking decision in relation to expansion companies. There is no doubt that we have the greatest challenges ahead, which are financed entirely from the State budget. Therefore, this is precisely the case with alternative funding, which we are now going to discuss in the context of the revision of the next NTP. We have good and thorough discussions within the government parties, and I am sure we will come up with good solutions in connection with the revision of the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e310	I would like to point out to the representative of Bjørnflaten that the Christian People's Party has not been inspired by Right when it comes to OPS. What we were inspired by was the government of Stoltenberg I that started the OPS project – OPS project that was very successful, very well received. At least I gave our source of inspiration in that area. The Prime Minister said in this room that we do not need to buy a chain of payments, we can allow them in cash. Then I thought it was special that we felt that this is the opposite that is happening. I don't want to say that I'm negative to it either, because I feel that it's not easy for the toll companies to raise loans, it's more flexible both for the state road service and when it's up to the extension rate. My question to the representative is: Has the Prime Minister misunderstood what the government is doing in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e319	I think the Prime Minister knows more than anyone what we're doing in the field of transport, and knows what a formidable boost we're about to make in terms of just investing on the road, investing on the track and investing in getting more of the transport over on the keel. So I have full confidence that the Prime Minister has good knowledge of this, and I fully support him. So I would like to comment that the Christian People's Party says that they are inspired by the experience when it comes to the construction of the OPS-based road at Grimstad. What we see now is a series of lawsuits, we see that a number of entrepreneurs are probably going bankrupt because they haven't been paid for the costs they've incurred in this way. The road is simply in the process of becoming more expensive than was foreseen. It's nice for the state, we don't have to pay, because it's the contractors who are sitting with the bill. I think it is quite special that the Christian People's Party is inspired by a road project that now leads to a number of entrepreneurs risk going bankrupt, and we risk losing many jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e326	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e329	I registered that the representative Bjørnflaten would not answer my question about tolls, but I assume, with all the workers' party representatives who will take the floor afterwards, that we can get a clear answer – either yes or no. Then I have to go back to committee leader Hareide, who I'm registering won't tell you where he has the 50 billion. kr to its infrastructure fund – because they are not there. He was very concerned about accountability – yes, it is very responsible to say that you are for something you have not submitted. Many will call it political bluff, I'm more concerned that you're actually going to input what you're saying you're going to do. Norwegian oil money builds a road, but certainly not just here to land. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have lent 61 billion. kr to Germany, to 1,8 pst. interest, such as Germans, etc. used to build safe, good roads. At the same time, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will only build 11 km of four-field road and 17 km of middle parts in Norway in 2012. In Sweden, the 200 km middle parts are built each year. The Progress Party will use oil money to build roads and railways in Norway, not only in Germany or other countries outside Europe. The infrastructure in a country is about like the base wall of the house. The infrastructure is the foundation of our society. Without a proper and good infrastructure, the opportunities offered by society are not taken advantage of either. For those who travel every day on old and out of date roads that are neither part of the action programme nor of the national transport plan, there is no comfort in hearing that there has never been more money than now. The everyday life of these drivers won't be any better until many, many years if you keep up with the pace the government is putting up with. For the Progress Party, it is important to ensure that we have a proper infrastructure network on both road and rail equipped to meet the challenges of the future as soon as possible. We don't have much time to do it on. That's why it's important that we immediately increase the pace in relation to what the government has set up so far. In our alternative state budget for 2012, as usual, we are adding to a massive expansion of road and rail, but we are also taking a new approach to what we have done in the past. Indeed, the Progress Party is in favour of establishing two state companies to invest in national roads and routes, in the same way as Avinor AS expands aerodromes and Statnett SF expands the electricity grid. Most people are tired of promises of expansions that are not going to happen. If there were any doubts: so is the Advancement Party. That is why we are proposing to increase investment in the road sector by over 15 billion. Total kr. We know that the projects are in line and that people are very impatient and expect action. We therefore believe that with the proposed increases from the Progress Party, more new projects could be launched in 2012. This applies to several sections on E39 in West Agder and Rogaland, E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand, faster expansion on several sections on E6 northwards, on E18 Telemark, Bamble, and several other sections in our country. In the longer term, the aim of the Progress Party is to have a continuous motorway on the E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand, E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger, E6 all the way from Oslo to Trondheim and Steinkjer and E18 from Oslo to Sweden. On the railway, we're proposing 3.4 billion. kr to initial investments beyond the government framework. Three of these billions will go to the development of double tracks on the intercity triangle Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Lillehammer and Oslo-Skien, where more than 230 km of double tracks are missing. We are very concerned about new releases on the Oslo-Ski line, where it is now granted over 1 billion. kr less than that intended to be used so far in accordance with the propulsion plan. Let me remind you that the Progress Party in the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 was all alone to propose that the double track Oslo–Ski should continue until Halden. The Progress Party also believes that the project Eidangerparsellen should be launched as quickly as possible and expanded as double tracks and not as single tracks – there is uncertainty as to whether it becomes single-track or double-track. In addition to the allocations to the intercity triangle, the Progress Party has set aside funds for start-up appropriations on major routes, such as: Bergensbanen, Sørlandsbanen, Meråkerbanen, Nordlandsbanen and Ofotbanen. The population of the largest cities is growing very rapidly, and there must be consequences for Norwegian transport policy. There is a huge need for investment in new roads, new railway lines and new T-Bahn tunnels. So, in our alternative state budget, we have set aside a 100-billion-dollar fund of our own. kr where the return is to be used for road and collective infrastructure in Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim. In addition, something has to be done with the reward scheme, because today it appears to be very unfair: While Oslo received 98 kroner per capita in 2011, Trondheim received 602 kroner per capita. I understand that it is perceived as very unfair, especially when some of the cities with the highest collective share are actually the ones that get the least money. The Progress Party will increase the reward scheme by a total of 706.9 million. SEK 506.9 million. kr shall go to the largest cities and 200 million. DKK to the 17 smaller cities. However, we will distribute the funds according to objective criteria and reward public transport rather than penalise the drivers of everyday driving with abusing time and local fuel charges. The proposals of the Progress Party will significantly increase the development of modern and proper quadruple roads and two-field roads with midway sections on accident-prone routes. That means that our proposal for expansion is miles from the other parties. This will result in a significant improvement in the road network, which is important for all road users, while at the same time reducing the number of cows and reducing transport costs for business. But, perhaps all, the most important thing: this expansion will lead to a significant improvement in road safety on our road network. Although the number of people killed in traffic has been reduced in recent years, our proposal to develop a modern, efficient and traffic-proof road network, alongside investments in rail, will also mean that we take a quantum leap to reduce the number of people killed or seriously injured in traffic in Norway. Finally, Norway is already using oil money to build roads and infrastructure in Germany. We in the Progress Party will use oil money to build roads and infrastructure in Norway as well – at a much higher rate than the current government provides. Norway’s economic situation is unique in Europe, but I believe that you should never invest more in foreign risk shares than you can afford to lose. Maybe that's a good example lately. Oil money for road construction is an investment my future grandchildren will enjoy very much. All those who travel on the road network in Norway, not least all those who travel on the bad road network now, demand and expect action, and they expect us to use oil money to invest in infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e374	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e377	The progress party's use of money is very much mentioned, so I'm not going to spend any special time on it. What might be a more and more interesting move, is that the Right Dilts after the Progress Party in the form of a note, but rarely have money. I wonder how the Progress Party deals with a Right who only speaks, but who rarely or never has money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e382	We are very happy that the Right comes after and that solutions such as fund solutions and other good solutions are good. Because when you are going to be in government in 2013, it is important to have partners with you who want to invest in infrastructure – building infrastructure. We are convinced that the Right will be there. That's why we're convinced that there's going to be a much bigger bet with a new government in 2013, when today's government is thrown out of government offices and new people are being brought in who really want to renovate the infrastructure in this country, both on the way and by rail. I look forward to it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e387	The progress party is against lightning in Norway. Now we must build a new parcel against Telemark and the municipality of Bamble, where the representative lives. Does he want us to build with a standard of 249 km/h, so that there is no lightning train crossing there? The second question is: The National Audit Office points out that through the privatisation that the Progress Party was involved in in road and maintenance in 2003, we are losing approx. 300 million. kr a year, or in another way: 5 miles of adjoining work. The Progress Party wants more of this – privatisation and postponing competition – to which the Riksaudition says we lose money, which gives poorer quality of supply and which is becoming more expensive and more bureaucratic. Is it true that the Progress Party has so much money that they can waste and choose ideological models even if they cost a lot more?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e396	The progress party never wastes its money. We're actually busy getting the best possible use of the money we spend. So I think you're going to have to say that it's happened a lot. The decline in road traffic has increased sharply in recent years, even under the red-green government. This, of course, also raises the costs of maintaining the road network. I think that this picture is much more nuanced than the representatives of Langeland are trying to do. To the second question: the Progress Party is concerned that we should have a modern and efficient rail network. For those who live in Porsgrund, and who drive the train to Oslo, it is that the train is now down to 20-30 km/h. Then it will actually be perceived as the speed of lightning compared to what it has been before. It's about the kind of costs you're going to have, and what you're going to spend the money on. The Progress Party will spend money both on rail and on the road to get a modern road and rail infrastructure, while Langeland will only spend money on high-speed trains, of which there will never be anything because it is too expensive. I am convinced that the solutions of the Progress Party are the second best.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e403	The Progress Party has, as we register, more money for everything. At the same time, they have a wet dream of entering government offices in 2013. Then I have a few challenges for the representative of Hoksrud. The right has traditionally been known to pursue a responsible economic policy that takes care of business. The Progress Party will spend significantly more money in the field of transport. How can we achieve such cooperation? The second challenge I want to give him is: the only thing you actually cut in the state budget is money for environmental measures like Transnova, for environmental research, and also for some of the environmental taxes. How, then, should one cooperate with the Christian People's Party, the Left and also the Right, who have joined the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e412	In principle, the Progress Party is committed to maximising the impact of our policies. I am convinced that we will have a lot of breakthrough in 2013. What it's actually about, and which is the difference between the government parties and the Progress Party, is that by investing properly in infrastructure, you reduce the accident costs, which makes it possible to spend the money you spend today on accidents and that kind of thing, on other things. We know that for business it costs NOK 1200 per hour for a truck that is in line. There are many trucks that line up every day. Instead, if you could get these cars to go, and make sure that business gets their products and goods out, it's actually socio-economically very profitable. That means you can take out winnings in other areas. That's why investing in infrastructure is so insanely good – making the right infrastructure investments brings a lot back to society. That's what the Progress Party is doing, on both road and rail. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e419	So the chord change is over. The President will ask the representative Hoksrud if he intended to raise some of the 62 proposals the Progress Party has on its own or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e424	Yes, I'm addressing these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e429	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has thus addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e432	It is particularly important that we now facilitate the creation of a competitive Norway in the future. There is great uncertainty in the economy in Europe, and in the world economy, and we need to be at the best equipped to meet the challenges that are coming. Increased competitiveness through improved transport solutions contributes to better business and labour mobility and is growth-creating. For this reason, transport is important for an uncertain period of time. This contributes to the greater support of societal shocks and to the security of well-being. I think it might be nice to start with an article with a slightly higher sky, about why it's important to bet on transportation. It is true that today's transport policy will lay the foundation for our growth and standard of living in the future. Right will ensure our well-being just by upgrading roads and railways, so that our prosperity is improved and everyone gets faster. We want to put security first and make sure everyone comes out safe too, not to say safe home. The right will also give public transport a real boost. We will use the most modern and efficient methods of development and planning. We believe that the time is ripe for significant reforms in the sector to address the challenges we face. It is very good to say about the surroundings of Norwegian roads. Beautiful nature and great natural experiences make the ride exciting – perhaps exciting in many places. Our road standard is much worse than in countries it is natural to compare with. While Sweden, for example, has 4,500 km of non-conversation road, Norway has only 500 km. Even though our maintenance run is in the billions class, the government sits there watching our road network fall due. Only 9 pst. of the major item 23, operation and maintenance, actually goes to asphalt. I remember a Red-Green Minister of Transport who stood here and claimed that it would smell asphalt all over Norway. Yes, then you have to have a good sense of smell, because it lacks a lot on it. There's one thing that really increases under this government, and it's bureaucracy. The number of employees in Norwegian transport establishments only continues to rise, and compared with our Nordic neighbouring countries, we are actually in a separate division — at the bottom. The state road transport service has increased the number of employees from 2005 to 2011 by 1,100 people. The recent diffi report demonstrated this very clearly. It simply cannot continue any longer, and in the meantime the maintenance gap is also increasing. In other words, we're misusing the money. To get rid of this huge maintenance kit, the Right proposes the creation of a 50-billion maintenance fund. kr. The return on the Fund will go directly to the necessary maintenance of road and rail. This is going to be 2 billion. kr every year. The right believes that it is absolutely necessary to upgrade Norwegian roads in order to ensure our competitiveness. That's why we're increasing the appropriations considerably in this state budget. We're following up our transport plan and we're proposing 1 billion. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... $800 million. This shall be subject to road safety measures because, for the Right, safe roads are the first priority. The right-hand road safety plan launched before the summer states that the threshold for construction of mid-driving works must be lowered, first to 6000 ADT and in the long term to 4000 ADT. While the government is planning to set up 17 km with mid-terms in 2012, the Right Budget proposal will provide room for about three times as much pitfalls. It gives a security gain. The right will also take the positive experience with the so-called narrow four-field path on rv. 2 from the experimental stage to the country-wide standard on roads with traffic above 8 000 ÅDT. Our road effort will provide more security for all those road users who depend every day on going to work, bringing children in the kindergarten and having other small and large errands – not least freight transport. The right is keen to apply the most modern and effective methods of meeting the challenges we face in the transport sector, such as: project financing and OPS. Unfortunately, it seems that the government lacks the same will or consensus to bet. The national meeting of the Labour Party decided that project funding would be provided — there is little evidence in this budget proposal, nor was there any particular response from the representative of the Bjørnflaten. The right believes that more use of public private cooperation would give us faster deployment and better cost control. We also have enormous time gains to raise by both more efficient planning processes and by progressing in projects. Despite positive signals from some government parties, we seem to see a red-green allergy to private solutions. However, we have made use of planning resources for several OPS projects in our alternative budget and are proposing in concrete terms three projects with OPS funding, which we will also vote on later today. Many Norwegian cities face major challenges. A smooth transport system is necessary to ensure competitiveness, but if we do not take the right action, the cities of the future will have problems dealing with the expected growth of traffic. We follow up the Collective Plan of the Right and are close to doubling support for collective action beyond the government's draft budget. This will give rise to a rise for public transport. The reward scheme for public transport was introduced last Right in government. The aim of the scheme is to stimulate better accessibility, environment and health in urban areas by increasing the number of collective trips. The aim was to give local priority to measures that were seen by local authorities. In other words, we put the whip away and brought out a large carrot, and it gave happy results in the short term. Since then, the red-green parts have also joined this scheme, among other things. as an important element of the climate agreement. However, the scheme now has a significant central policy dimension because the government uses it as a tool to overrule and threaten local politicians in its policy direction. I never meant to. The right will therefore change, strengthen and improve the reward scheme for public transport. The scheme must also include earmarked funds for the planning of urban railways and superbust roads and binding State financial contribution of 50 pst. The right is in favour of the establishment of a cooperation body between State and local authorities to deal with this obligation and to plan current developments. Here are many current projects in our big cities that I'm not going to go into. In addition, it is necessary to focus on flexible means of transport, which facilitates the combination of means of transport. Therefore, the right considers that the reward scheme must include clear incentives for more active organisation of seamless transitions between collective solutions both for passengers and for goods, so-called intermodal solutions. We want our own reward scheme to stimulate such solutions, and the committee became aware of this also on its trip to Switzerland in the autumn. We also want a reward scheme for bicycle measures, and have put money into such schemes in our alternative budget. A top modern infrastructure is the key to competitiveness. Train provision is an important part of transport provision, and rail is an environmentally friendly option with high capacity, but with an infrastructure approaching 150 years. Right wants to modernise rail and high-speed rail bets in Norway, if the operation on the line is profitable. We are following with excitement the ongoing work on the high-speed investigation, but we must admit that we are a little concerned about whether the Council of State, the Railway Agency and the investigators follow the Stortingen's assumptions. Here I must make sure that this happens, and then I am not talking about the mandate, but about the Storting's assumptions. Because we are not at all impressed by the follow-up to the decision-making process on the renewal of the Dovre track. But we'll get back to that in a week's time here in the hall. However, high-speed rail work has confirmed that there is a major need for a more modern structure in the rail sector. That's why we want to reorganize the Railway Agency into two companies. There is one company to carry out infrastructure development and improvements in a competitive market. The other company is responsible for managing investments and maintenance in competitive operations as well as ownership of stations and highways, and thus with a significant income potential. We also want to open the way for the end of the monopolistic train by offering several sections of the route. This is how we can build a diverse, powerful and knowledgeable railway environment in Norway. More comprehensive on the Right railway policy and other important areas will be addressed by others in the fraction. I will discuss the suggestions on which the right is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e492	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e497	The right, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party claim that the three OPS projects we have had in Norway are a great success. In particular, reference is made to the project E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand. It has become much more expensive than assumed. We're talking about $12 billion. kr, and the contractors are arguing in court about who is to pay the bill. From the Right side, it may be said that the project was successful, as the bill is released by the public. But I assume that the Right does not believe that the OPS projects should be based on the loss suffered by the Contractors. The post writes that deposits of sulphide-containing and acid-producing mountains from the construction of this road kill fish and other lives in the watercourses and the lake at Mannfalldalen because the E18 was not built after the book. We also know that the working conditions of some of the employees were, to put it mildly, critical, and in addition, the road was not built any faster than, for example, the road. E6 Dal–Minnesund. Will the representative Halleraker and Right continue to use E18 as an example of how excellent OPS is?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e506	When it comes to the exact expression ‘built after the book’, I have to add enough to the statement to Sønsterud that we have been revealed that the State Road Administration itself has laid aside its own manuals on how they build their roads. We've seen the result of this, for example. in the province of Sønderud. In the case of E18 Kristiansand-Lillesand, it is a success project, yes. It was built in half the time by what is common for that type of road. It was also built in a way that satisfied the contracting entity. However, the fact that this happened at a time of large cost increases also gained this company's experience, which also the state gets to know at these times. That we then have a contractor who has to cover this loss, well – that's how the private market works. This is how it works if you're going to build your own house, so it works if you're going to build a business building, and also roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e513	I want to pink Halleraker that when he got out of the government quarter and out of the finance minister's chair, he got good advice and good ideas – and I appreciate that. It's debts in proportion to the level of the vow, which was 1,3 billion. kr on the railway when he was in position, but which is now 12.5 billion. And he'll go further. That's good. But the question is, what kind of funding does he think about when it comes to the train? Can he imagine a Swiss model where a user uses climate-reconciliation e.g. to collect fuel taxes into a fixed income for the development of the railway, such as a do in Switzerland? It is one of the problems that the railways are being discriminated against. My second question: Right and Halleraker complains about the bureaucracy. The National Audit Office is one of the main reasons why there is more bureaucracy, among other things. in the Road Service. That's the proposal that Right is going through, and that we're losing money on. Is Right now willing to look at arrangements that actually work, and that make us get more out of the money for road and maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e522	It was really good to hear the description of the Right which Langeland had, because I knew myself very badly again in the one that Freddy de Ruiter had earlier, but it wasn't a question to me. Yes, we have a major challenge in modernising the rail system, and we have a major challenge in finding smart financing and organisational solutions. We're going to promise on the right that we're going to be in the first row in that workshop to figure out these solutions. Then I really hope that the government parties put away some of their captors and ideological barriers to be with us in that work, because it's going to be absolutely necessary if we're to get a modernised railway in Norway. With regard to this last question about bureaucracy, I think it is a bit exaggerated to say that 1 100 people need to manage the business agreements in the maintenance sector. That can't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e531	The right has a budget proposal that is not as ambitious as that of the Progress Party. But we also know that the Right may not have a great deal of joy over the County – we are quite familiar with that. I record the choice to increase the county councils by 200 million. kr to county roads – that’s very good – to bet on it. But at the same time you choose to cut 500 million. kr in framework transfers to the county. Then you give with one hand and take with the other. How does it relate, if you really want the county to be an actor in building roads, which they have been given responsibility for now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e538	The right-hand draft budget, referred to by the representative, Sjelmo Nordås, is very focused. It is targeted at two important shortcomings that we see in the government's proposals. It is about being more ambitious on the road safety element, and it is about public transport, which we believe must be given a significant boost. In that case, 200 million. kr to the county council, it is entirely in line with this proposal, which is a framework around it, namely that it is earmarked for road safety measures in county municipalities. We see that the county councils have been given responsibility for a lot of roads, which provide poor road safety. That's why we think it's important for the state to set up 200 million. kr for such measures to the districts. Then we'll have to take the discussion about the closure of the county councils or not at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e545	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e548	“It wouldn’t be useful to reach the stars by bicycle.” “But the stars don’t disappear when we use bicycles.” It says Christian socialist Gunnar Roalkvam in one of his poems. That's very true, because what we see is that we're uniting a lot on this globe, not least within the transport area. Think of what it would have been like in urban areas if more bicycles, with local pollution, noise and greenhouse gas emissions! Imagine what kind of urban air it could be, which was not dangerous cork for asthmatics or for the children in kindergartens, who had to close! ‘Loftå e such footing of gases and of smoke’ also says Gunnar Roalquam, and ‘it’s not okay to be a bird today’. But it's actually not so good to be human in the cities in winter, when the air is stunned by gases and smoke. So here's something to do. SV is therefore pleased that we red-green at Stortinget, in cooperation with a sensible government council, got to admit 20 million. kr more for walking and cycling paths in the budget. The search lists were happy, but the city air is also happy, because we can get more on bicycles and less pollution in cities, for example. The whole world is gathering in Durban. The Kyoto Agreement shall be revised. The Chinese seem to be moving in the right direction. Now there are only Americans, Saudi Arabia and others left, but the probability of a good result is not very great. In the climate agreement, which is behind all the parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, there are many offensive grips that we can take. Some take us into account for a reward scheme, with increased public transport and reduced car traffic – that is very good. We take a lot of action when it comes to rail. We take other steps when it comes to urban railways, we take action when it comes to pedestrian paths and bike paths, etc. etc. But there's still a lot left. I mean, at home, the football team is the best. We should also be in the climate. We're going to be the best at home and take the two thirds that we've promised to make the climate deal. Then people from the Right in their posts after my reply must be pragmatic when it comes to how to solve the climate problem. There is SV set to continue, but we also need to be willing to look at actual restrictions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Here, the cities, which the right side often controls, are not particularly offensive. On the contrary, they are pingles and wheezing when it comes to taking action that works. The NHO asks us in SV if we can't get a running-time charge, as they have done in Stockholm, so that transport can go easier in cities. It won't be on the right. There is one grip that they say no to the grievance of greenhouse gas emissions and that the business community should not lose as much money as it is today. They're the red-green ones, with SV at the top, which is the best business friend, because we want a transport in the cities that makes people not in line and not impure, but actually leads to business thinking more money. There's a big explanation problem. In Bergen, in Stavanger and in other urban areas, they are not willing to take any action at all, because they fear the traffic of cars – despite huge traffic traffic. It is such that the railway sector has really been given a boost with this government. We had Hareide in government, we had Schou in government – the previous government. Then the railway runs were proposed for 1.3 billion. kr, in the 2006 budget. A lot more money for the railway is available now - that's good. But just to make it clear: this government has a railway effort that is many, many times larger than the Christian People's Party and Right when they put in government – including the Left, which I forgot, which had the Council of State – and actually promote this miserable railway proposal, which is now completely out of place in relation to what we have in government. So there's a lot going on here. We're going to figure out a lightning train, and we're going to figure out a lightning train. Here I want to commend Deutsche Bahn and Norsk Bane among many other actors, but they have been the furthest on the road to prove that lightning trains are reasonable in Norway. Now we're going to spend 50 million. kr to do this yourself. It's very good, I'm very happy with it, and it looks very promising. But not only that: in fact, the Storting is a wise big thing; they say that when you build new lines that can turn out to be future high-speed highways, one builds them like that. That's what I challenge the representative Hoksrud from Telemark on, but he didn't answer the question if he thinks we should now build with a lower standard, so that there is no lightning to Telemark. He wouldn't answer that, because he probably wants both, as the Progress Party wants, and for which they have money. So when we build Oslo-Ski, we build towards Gothenburg and towards Europe with high-speed standards, so that we can really connect to the European high-speed network. Why shouldn't we? Why should we not do what almost every other country in the world does, build a high-speed network, with the air traffic that is, for example. from the West to Oslo, which is the largest in Europe. Then we have to take action, and high-speed trains will also be a grip for development in the districts, as shown in the previous weeks. Then it is also important that we keep the focus on near-trafficking. I want to say that there has been a very good job done by the Council of State in Oslo. We've had a lot of problems, and we've had a lot of delays. Many people have disfellowshiped me because I've been talking about lightning trains, and then their local trains have stood. Now we have taken hold. The punctuality has gone up, more trains are coming, and new trains are coming. Those who live in the eastern part of the country can be glad that the train will be even better, and then of course we will also have to build out intercity. It's just to say that we're also sorry that we didn't get a 250 km/h solution – it looks like – along Mjøsa. But we can also think that that solution up the hill can come anyway. In North Norway we are betting on the Nordlandsbanen. We're using 100 million. I want to get him cleaned up. If Elisabeth Enger reads the statement from the committee, she will see that we also take the Salt Pendant and Ofotbanen as important areas – especially Ofotbanen, because there is a burst of capacity, and we need crossing tracks. The Committee says that it must be more active from the Council of State in order to create a split layer with LKAB and other parties in the region. It's a problem that I think the right-hand side ignores. They say yes, thank you, both in the Right and the Advance Party. They're going to have a lot of new highways all over the country. The progress batch should have a total of 300 billion. kr on the road, but they shall also build trains. Right? Right? Right? Right? If a build-up of motorways, says Deutsche Bahn, it reduces the profitability of the train. So the Right, with its transport and road policy, is promoting a policy that makes the lynching an impossibility if it is to be profitable, with the model that Right sets out. Right, you have to prioritize what the government does, and bring in a proper statement that will in a way focus on ensuring that this becomes profitable, that the Right is so busy. With Halleraker's policy, it's not like that. I think it's absolutely necessary for the bulk of the population, based on the climate agreement, to create another funding for the railway. I mean, what we see is that the railways are being discriminated against. Ports have charges, aircraft have charges, plus that when we buy spirits at tax-free, there is also a check-in to Avinor, and the roads have tolls. The railway has only Sigbjørn Johnsen and the Ministry of Finance to invest in every year. We need to find a model that is more long-term. I don't mind Sigbjørn Johnsen, that's not what I meant, but we have to find a model that makes us have long-termity in this. Switzerland is ready. Norway also has to do that, and then I think Switzerland's model can only import directly and import it into Norway. This will be in line with the majority decision of the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party. Finally, it is very important that we look even more closely at the maritime and port sectors. There's too bad a setup. We've come a lot, I thought, with a new government council, but we still have a piece to go to get this better coordinated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e583	The representative Langeland is well-known for his enthusiasm in terms of lynching. Personally, I have much greater faith in Ueland's description of the lightning strike, where he believes that the Norwegian people are being led behind the light. We have seen in the past that SV has taken a national decision on a railway from the Churches to Russia, which the representative Langeland voted north and down in this hall on a proposal from the Progress Party. Should we understand the representative so that lightning trains are great for everyone in the south, while in the north we won't even be able to get a freight train in place? Or is Finnmark and North Norway for an uninteresting away fight to count on the representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e591	That was a good line, because I'm very busy with Northwest Russia. I've been trying to figure it out and I've been working to get a solution to North-West Russia from Kirkenes. I'm still for that. So it's just an experience you have to do – if Fredriksen ever comes into government, which I don't hope – that it's not all you can get in place in a second, like you can when you're in opposition and have money for everything. It's an experience you get then. When it comes to Ueland, I understand that the Advance Party is pushing a kicking NSB director to its chest. But it's pretty much just him left on the track, he along with the Progress Party, which is now also starting to get insecure because they're wondering if that's not 250 kilometers plus to the place where they're caged. So here's the Progress Party on the slide. I think it's just a matter of time until they also see that these statements about Lightning in Norway are good. Heia Nord-Noreg! I support a lot of what's happening in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e598	I note that the representative Langeland is in line with Trygve Hegnar, who says that it is only to set the price of the bombings at NOK 200 in a paid-price system, that you are on your way alone. I have two questions. The Swiss model, says Langeland, can only be introduced immediately and taken home to Norway. Interestingly, after travelling abroad, the representative Langeland comes home and says that we can take the charges by car on trains, and then we can have some toll on the railway. The representative would then also like to introduce the Swiss system in respect of the tax model, i.e. 7 pst. VAT and almost no income tax? That's the one. The other is with high-speed trains, for which the representative is an embossed ambassador. But what about the representative sitting in a government that is unable to follow a majority decision in the Great Britain on high-speed speed also along Mjösa?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e607	I just want to make it clear that every time Hegnar agrees with me, he tends to write to his leaders: for this time. I haven't talked about NOK 200 in expenses when it comes to tolls, I've talked about finding a model that I hope Right will be on – a climate settlement model – where we can get a long-term funding of the railway. It was my challenge to all the climate comrades, including Right. When it comes to high-speed trains, we're very happy that right there has played on layers with SV. Ever since they got out of government, they've been positive for high-speed trains, and I sincerely hope that if they come back in position, they'll still be. But I'm more uncertain about that. That's why I think a red-green government is also important in order to get to the lightning train, which right now is for. We have a problem along the Mjösa. I totally agree with that. As I've got the Council's explanation for this, planning has come too far. In 2008, I definitely meant that we had to have a different trajectory than the one now selected. Now it looks like we can't stop whoever is selected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e616	It was a very good start the representative Langeland had on his post. Citing Christian socialists can be very wise, and I thought that the theme that was taken up – exactly what is going on on a bike – is important. Then it's a big paradox that it's probably the area where the government is the furthest behind the form. There is now a target achievement of 54 pst., and we know that the target achievement in the cities is even lower than that. We also know that the bike part has gone down, from 5 pst. from 2005 to 4 pst. in 2009. And with the efforts in the 2012 budget, even after the adjustment pointed out by the representative, it will be 30 years before we reach the need for our national roads. My question is: can the representative guarantee that we will achieve the objective in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e623	Langeland rarely guarantees much. I'm not going to guarantee the lightning train either. But when it comes to what is now being recorded, I have recorded that the Christian People's Party once they also came out of government offices, suddenly got a position relative to walking and cycling paths. I really appreciate that, and I really want to, if that is how the Christian People's Party came into government, that one follows up this good intention that I think the Christian People's Party has shown when it comes to walking and cycling. No, of course we're not happy when we can't do more for walking and cycling roads. But my point of recording and referring to the Christian socialist at this point was that one actually also here on the house, on the Stortinget, was busy doing something about this – and we managed to move 20 million in cooperation with the Council of State. kr on bike, and it was the lists of cyclists pleased with. So we also know that when it comes to the paper 8 proposed by the Christian People's Party, we have cooperated well with the Christian People's Party on just walking and cycling paths. And that's what we're going to do if the Christian People's Party wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e632	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e635	One of the joys of being on the Transport and Communications Committee is that we get to travel and visit our own country well, and we also get to travel abroad and look at different solutions, different models, which you choose. It's incredibly instructive. But it is one thing that I do not envy our colleagues in Europe. It is the economic situation, which is critical: high unemployment, low economic growth and high government debt. Although Norway has so far drifted away from the most serious consequences, we now see the contours of the challenge to export-oriented industry. There are daily warnings about possible lay-offs or other signals that now it is the number before we get it signposted over us. Lower demand for goods and services affects Norwegian business. Strengthening the crown weakens the competitiveness of the exported industry. It endangers ownership and jobs. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to pursue a responsible economic policy. Since 2005, the government has been pursuing an active policy to secure the Norwegian economy and to secure Norwegian jobs. Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and is designated as the sixth best country for industrial activity. In addition, strengthening infrastructure is essential in order to strengthen the competitiveness of industry and, therefore, the Central Party is satisfied that the State budget represents a significant strengthening of the appropriations for road and rail transport. Transport is at a historically high level, the proposal for 2012 is 31.8 billion. kr. Never before has it been built more than now. The 2012 state budget proposal has brought us a year closer to a modern road and rail network. The draft budget contains a growth of 8 pst. compared to 2011. This results in concrete results, for example: We will receive ten major, new projects, start-up funding for design – I can mention Oppdal and E134 in Telemark, and there are more. It will also mean launching three major rail projects, phase-in of 50 new trainsets, increased punctuality, new ground route model and repairing a number of stations. There is a strong commitment to maintenance. The government is following up the requirements of the National Racial Protection Group in 1 billion. kr annually for racial protection, which benefits both the national road network and the county road network. Several locally initiated toll projects are being assessed, including: The whole country package, with operation and maintenance as part of the development contract. It's an innovation that I think we're getting great pleasure from. Strong commitment to road safety, allocation of 747 million. kr represents an increase of 200 million. kr from 2011. A set of measures is in place, and there must be many measures to address the various issues that are relevant. Walking and cycling routes are also re-prioritised in the examination of the State budget in the Committee and provide an increase of 20 million. kr to what has been proposed. It's important. It's a cheek egg – it has several good solutions in it. Maintenance of the long freight lines is also under way. Ofotbanen will receive special attention where capacity will be decommissioned as early as 2015 if we do not take action. The Committee also signals the need for electrification of several of the long sections of the track. It will be an important measure in a long-term climate perspective. Maritime transport is the centre party and government parties engaged in strengthening. Closer cooperation between owners of goods, transport companies, shipowners and port organisations on how to get more goods on the keel must be achieved. All actors must contribute in their fields in order to strengthen short sea shipping. The coastal fee has been reduced to support such a good ship strategy. The framework of the coastal works is increasing and provides for greater speed in the development of fishing ports and other maritime infrastructure and the strengthening of preparedness for acute pollution. The oil protection system will be strengthened. The new environmental and preparedness analysis of the coastal facility shows that there is a need to strengthen local preparedness – therefore a new 15 million. kr to the intercommunal and local authorities' access to the necessary equipment. The fast route agreement is in place – full-year operations Bergen– Kirkenes and daily sailing to all 34 ports. Through the budgetary procedure, the rescue company receives an increase of DKK 10 million. This has been done to ensure the rescue company’s preparedness in 2012. In addition, the rescue company and the Coastal Agency have a cooperation agreement in 2011 that may involve further tasks – such an agreement may also be further assessed. An overall committee highlights the need for continued broadband deployment. We've come a long way in a very short time, not least because the government has spent a billion dollars. kr in the last few years, but we have to set new targets. Although we now see that the coverage has increased also in terms of higher capacity in recent years, we need to set higher targets. The needs of the Norwegian transport sector are enormous. Our ambition is that a modern main road and rail network should be in place within 20 years. Transport must then continue to be a budget win, and road and path must be given priority over taxation. Not all parties realize this. 400 to 500 billion. kr must be used to ensure good standards for highways in Norway. It shows figures from the state road network investigation. Corresponding figures from the Railway Station show that between 250 and 350 billion. kr is necessary in order to establish a network for the future. This has to be taken seriously. For the purposes of NTP 2014-2023, transport modes shall include: plan for an increase in the base frame of up to 45 pst. The red-green government was the first to follow up the national transport plan. When we first made a transport plan ourselves, we turned the level up sharply. That it's useful, we know! The great transport promise over the last six years has produced results in many areas. From 2006 to 2010, the risk of being severely damaged or killed in traffic is reduced by 30 pst. In 2009, 40 million more traveled collectively than in 2005. For the first time, the collective share is rising and the use of cars is falling. No batches that go to the tax haven will be able to hold up such a pressure – nor the Right or the Advance Party. A lot of work remains. In addition to increased appropriations, it is necessary to reduce planning time. It takes too long for a project to start planning, until it is completed. The Central Party also believes that we should look at different forms of financing. It's necessary. But at the end of the day, it's still about government appropriations from the state. The red-green majority has chosen to be involved in trade, now that we are entering a time of crisis in Europe that is also going to affect us in some way. The state budget is tight, as the recommendations of business and experts were made. Despite this asphalt roads, new tunnels or explosions, the railways are renewed, and ports are being built. It's possible because we actually choose to collect taxes from ordinary employees, managers, shareholders, etc. We have said no to tax cuts, and that is why we can afford to build the country through a cultural effort – even in an uncertain time. With this I recommend the proposed proposals of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e684	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e687	Large parts of the country have been affected by floods this year, and major damage has been done to both municipal and county infrastructure. This means that the municipalities and county councils have received large expenses that they could not foresee in advance. Minister of Transport Meltveit Kleppa has said to the NRK: ‘Everything that can be done to repair these roads shall be done here. We're going to set up, and it's not going to be on money. It shall also not affect other projects.’;» The Prime Minister has said to the NRK: ‘The money required to repair the road, rail and public infrastructure will arrive.’ But in the amendment to the 2011 State Budget, the promises are not being fulfilled. I wonder then: is the Centre party proud and satisfied that the municipalities only receive partial compensation for flood damage to infrastructure, when their own Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has promised full compensation? Or is it possible that you are failing municipalities and county municipalities in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e706	Racial protection is important both in order to ensure the ability of business to transport and in order for people to travel safely to and from work and school. There's a strong commitment to racial protection. A lot has been granted in recent years. It follows what has been requested by the National Racial Protection Group. We've followed that up – and then we have. It's very important. At the same time, we see that we are entering an uncertain time, with major changes in climate. It rains more, it's more violent wind and storm, which makes it possible to breed in unforeseen areas. The government has announced that you should follow up. Steps should be taken to assist in the event of such emergency situations. It has been signaled by the Minister of Transport that she will follow up. I trust that. What is important in the course of this process is that municipalities are now working to identify where there may be vulnerable areas, so that – when revising the plans – they have the opportunity to ensure that the solutions that ensure all types of race are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e716	Next year, there will be 50 new trains. That's very good. I think the Center Party and the Christian People's Party share the commitment to universal design. The challenge with the 50 new trains is that they will also pass 50 stations. Of the 50 stations, only five have the right height and are universally designed. The remaining 45 are not universally designed. The goal we had when we adopted the National Transport Plan was to spend more than 3 billion. NOK – 3.47 billion. – on universal design from 2010 to 2019. My question is: is the representative of the Central Party satisfied with that part – that level – we have fulfilled in this area so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e725	Universal design, as the representative Hareide points to, is very important for everyone to have the opportunity to participate and have an active life – whether it is to travel to and from work or in a private context. This is a matter in which I support Mr Hareide's representative. We need to put in place further measures to target, in order to take the necessary steps to travel. I want to signal on behalf of the Central Party that it is a matter on which we must have a strong focus when we roll the National Transport Plan – take action to secure the stations so that it is possible to go off and on the new train sets that are coming, and also take other measures to help people have the opportunity to take an active part in society. We've seen, when we've been out traveling, that other countries have done the right thing here, and that's a model that I want us to discuss when we roll the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e734	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e737	Unfortunately, the left is not represented in the Transport and Communications Committee during this period. I would therefore like to present the alternative budget of the Left, focusing on the areas in which we differ from the government's proposals. The left is concerned with accessibility and road safety both in cities and districts. We mainly support the government's proposal to raise a commitment to the maintenance and investment framework on the road, while increasing investment in road safety and cycle routes by 75 million. kr. However, we note that from the day one, there is a delay in the follow-up to the election promises that NTP will be followed up. The government's problem when it comes to the railways is that most of the money goes to maintenance and operation, which means that important new projects are being put at risk. In particular, the left is concerned with the importance of realizing the intercity triangle with double tracks and projects that contribute to significantly reduced travel time over the longer distances, such as Oslo-Bergen/Trondheim/Kristiansand. That is why we are proposing increased appropriations for the railway by 950 million. DKK, of which 100 million. kr is set aside for increased effort for operation and maintenance in the Oslo area. If we are to simplify the longer distances, the following projects are very important: The Ringerik tunnel on the Bergensbanen double track Hamar – Lillehammer Borderway for the interconnection of the Vestfoldbahnen and Sørlandsbanen double track Oslo–Ski is realised faster The Eidanger link is being driven double track Sandbukta – Moss – Kleberget is forced to take measures for reduced travel time on the Vestfoldbahnen, such as: double-track south of Drammen and crossing tracks The left believes it is a pity that the majority has down-prioritised the start of the Ringeriks course towards the end of the decade. The track will relieve the road network towards the metropolitan area and reduce the journey time to Bergen by one hour. Representatives from the government and government parties have promised on a number of occasions that it will be addressed in the problems of train traffic. It is therefore worrying that delays are now being announced in Route Plan 2012. Left allocates 100 million. kr to invest in investments on precisely Route Plan 2012. It is also essential for long-term railway investment that an allocation be made for the planning of increased capacity through Oslo, such as: a new Oslo tunnel. For this reason, the Left is committed to launching a major effort to plan new capacity there as well. It is necessary for the State to take more responsibility for public transport. Therefore, the Left proposes to increase transfers over the reward scheme by 100 million. kr. The left also proposes a new entry of 150 million. kr for the planning, investment and operation of public transport in the major cities. It is essential that the country contributes financially to raising major projects in Norwegian cities, enabling cities to meet traffic challenges in an environmentally friendly way. These means may, for example: used in urban railways. The Bondevik II government played a very active role in setting up an urban runway effort, among others. in Bergen. There are a number of important projects that should receive a government contribution, such as the North-Jear Railway, the Kolsåssbahnen, the new Fornebubanen and the path to Aarhus. There is also a need to develop and facilitate more environmentally friendly road traffic. It is particularly important to use new and environmentally friendly technologies and fuels. The Bondevik II government regularly stepped up the appropriations for research, development and demonstration in hydrogen and biofuels. This work continues with the alternative government budget of the Left. Finally, I would like to point out that within transportation, and in particular the railway system, there are some steps we need to take in addition to more money. I have noted that the Office of the Ministry of Transport, which has been working for eleven months now, is proposing almost the same thing as we proposed in a proposal for a representative in our own country: A long stretch must be planned at a time, with concrete dates for the completion of the different projects, and planning must take place much faster than today. Necessary development must take place with foreseeable funding. The current system of annual appropriations for the State budget is inappropriate. The report allows for much greater use of state regulatory plans and for the various projects to be organised in separate companies, which can also raise private capital. If the Minister of Transport doesn't want to listen to the Left, I hope she will listen to her own experts. The Norwegian railway had earned it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e797	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e800	950 million. kr more to the railway from the left is good. The representative tended to mention a number of projects that she would like to pursue. But for $950 million. I don't get many kilometers more double tracks, so there's something about the ambitions of the Left and the allocation basis they set up. What I could imagine asking the representative Tenden about are her ambitions of power, which I registered was expressed at the National Government Meeting of the Left this weekend. ‘If we are to have an impact on the Left’s policy, we must seek power’, said the representative Tenden. I think it is very good in the Left's transport policy, with priority for public transport and rail. My question is: where does the Ten think she has the most impact on the Left's transport policy, on a red-green government or on a government where the Progress Party has the hand on the steering wheel of the transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e807	First, I want to thank you for the brilliance. It's not often you get from the red-green. The red-greens have given a lot of money to the railway. What my criticism of the red-greens is that they have to start thinking new. We have proposed innovation in the railway sector. We must have faster construction, private should be able to go in, and we have proposed a series of grips that you in the red-green parties have voted down. I am very sorry about that. So to the question. We were in the Bondevik II government. We enjoyed that government very well. We carried out a lot of innovation. We spent a lot of time on the cities -- much more than this government has now done. There, Gorm Kjernli from Akershus has a big challenge; to bet more on the big cities. That's where we get the biggest challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e816	It's good if the left will also be involved and think new. The right has been with the Progress Party on Infrastructure Fund for some years, and now we have got the Christian People's Party to see the light. The question is whether the Left also sees the light and sees the importance and benefit of creating an infrastructure fund, so that we can get long-term, clear and predictable funding for a faster development of roads and railways. That's one part of the line. The second part is, where is the left hand thrust? We hear a lot about railway operations in the alternative budget of the Left, but we hear a lot about road operations. That's what business all over the country is formally yelling for, more road betting. Where is the Left's road effort in the 2012 draft budget of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e823	There were two questions here, I'll try to get the answer to both of them. The left has a responsible economic policy – it is very important for us. That's why we're dealing with the rule of action, which I experience the Progress Party does not. It makes it difficult, very difficult, for us in the Left to cooperate more closely with the Progress Party to push out the red-greens from the government offices. So for a road strike, yes, we have an offensive road strike. We use as much as the red-green ones, as I said from the pulpit, and then we want to build smarter ones. We want more OPS construction within the road, and we want new grips, which will lead to more offensive road construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e830	The former Vice-Chairman of the Transport Committee made a statement showing that the Left is currently out of the Transport Committee, because we are very busy with the things that tend to take up. But two things: the left will think new, and the right will look great. We're all trying to think about something new. But if thinking about new things is thinking about putting up competition and offering more, etc., it's not that new. That's old news. So I'm wondering what this new thing is, because the old new one is just a lot more expensive than what the Riksrevision says about, for example. maintenance. Things are getting more expensive, approx. 300 million. kr per year, by thinking ‘new’ – if the representative thinks it is new. So I wonder at the end: the left has seen that SV is out of the question that they want a fund, plus that they want the petrol tax to go into this fund for railway development. Is Left Consistent With SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e837	First to the National Audit Office's report, which has been a topic here today. I think a lot of us, and especially in the red-green parts, would have been useful and happy to read that report a little bit more carefully, because it's just not as simple as several of the red-greens have said here today. The red-greens are against competition. The left is for competitive outsourcing. I think we'll get more way and go for the money with competitive outsourcing. The reason why the report has become the same is simply that the requirements for contractors have increased considerably during this period, in terms of both quality, planning and reporting. So once again, I think the representative of Langeland is going to sit down and read that report a little bit more carefully, and he'll understand it better and not make those simple statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e843	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e846	Being a Minister of Transport is very meaningful. It's great to travel around Norway and see people rejoice over better roads and more punctual railways. 2 September we open new double track Lysaker – Sandvika. 19 November celebrate Tønsberg new double track Barkåker-Tønsberg. On October 3, the Nestunnel was a new bypass on Rv. 7 ready, 7 November new E6 from Dal to Minnesund. 19 km of new four-field road is extended over two years, at least as quickly as any associated OPS project. We have also just sent the next parcel to Stortinget. When he's in place, it means 65 km with a new four-field road from the Gardermoen to the Colomoen. On November 7, Ramsrudhhängningen was also on Rv. 7 replaced by 6.3 km new road. 20 December we are ready to celebrate the Vossa package, a new road on the left. 13 between Granvin and Voss. I could mention several completed projects and also the extension of plant start-ups. Many in this Chamber have been in the fields for the last year. Let me still go over to the year that comes. No one can wonder that we are slipping into the Centre Party, among the red-green and in the Ministry of Transport for 2012, with the opening of eight major road projects, the possible start of 18 new road projects and five major rail projects. We also get the opportunity to meet the gentle duck in 2012. We get the opportunity to rejoice that the government binds the country better together, reduces distance costs and disadvantages and helps to better access. The transport sector is no longer talking and empty promises. Very positive is going on. Even the largest pessimist must be able to find something to rejoice about now, it also disseminates both national and local media. The most joyous thing is the positive development in the number of o'clocks. Last year, 208 people were killed in traffic. 208 is too much. We still have to go back to the 1950s to find so low numbers. As it looks now, we can rejoice that there might be between 30 and 40 more saved lives in traffic this year. The 2012 budget will reinforce the positive trend. 750 million. kr is set aside for specific road safety measures. In addition, measures will be taken against the driver. All experience suggests that it is crucial. The point strength of the railway is strongly affected. In fact, we have experienced a short time ago the best point-by-point shift on the railway since 2005. In the fall nine out of ten trains have been on the route on the main track between Oslo and Eidsvoll. In 2012, we shut down train traffic in the Oslo area for six weeks. We're doing this to complete the great and absolutely necessary upgrade there. The number of collective travellers is growing rapidly. We now experience that public transport takes market share from the private car when it comes to work travel. In 2010, the number of collective trips was 500 million, 21 million more than one year earlier. It's a positive, but also absolutely necessary development. The importance of both land, cows and air quality means that future traffic growth in the largest cities must be resolved collectively. In order to plan for the future, we have taken important organizational steps in the department. We have created a new department responsible for public transport and railway matters. We have also launched a project to develop objectives and strategy for public transport. The aim is to facilitate a clearer role for public transport in long-term transport planning. In 2012, the phase-in of the new baseline model begins. The train offer for commuters in the eastern region should be much better. We're doing a good job of projects that are going to be part of the IC strategy. In the Stavanger area, the double-track Sandnes–Stavanger and Jærbanen are a success. Bergen and Vossabanen are on their way. The transport sector also has the power to take climate responsibility. The measures introduced since the 2007 climate agreement bring us closer to the level of ambition described in the message. Even if it's very positive to slip over, it's a long time before we're in the goal. My ambition is a tip-top modern main road and rail network within 20 years. If we are to reach this point, we need to address three important areas: the loans must be increased year after year, we need to build even smarter than today, and the planning needs to go faster. Since 2005, the roads have increased by 12 billion. kr. In 2012, we're going to spend almost 32 billion dollars. kr on transport measures. They're mainly going to the railway and the main road network. This is 2.4 billion. kr, or 8 pst., more than in 2011. In addition, there will be the bet the state implements. The government has not only presented the most ambitious transport plan so far. We follow him up, too. We met the previous national transport plan. With the 2012 budget, we have come very far into fulfilling the existing NTP. In some areas, such as operation and maintenance, road safety and planning, we are far ahead of the plan. On the other hand, we're after. When we get to 2013, we're measuring a filling rate of all the 100 pst entries. The entry is still to be made. The change in banking obligations is one of several examples of how we communicate with each other, changing. Aviation is considered to be a collective service because of geography and topography in some places in this country. We're about to finish bidding for the new four and five years on 19 routes. At the same time, we facilitate the next announcement for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. We are now working on the next national transport plan. Etétés have been commissioned to plan, among other things. for an increased frame of 45 pst. Although the government has not committed itself to such a commitment, this is a clear signal that the escalation should continue. There are also about 20 local initiatives for changes of a larger and smaller scale compared to the airports. They are explained in more detail in the national transport plan. We're building smarter now. Substantially higher budgets allow large, new projects to be fully funded. This allows them to have optimal progress, rather than adjudicating the construction period and appreciating the projects significantly. Longer distances are developed coherently, and the individual projects are more planned in a single unit. New contract types are being prepared. E6 in Helgeland is a good example of a route where operations and maintenance are seen in context. On a distance of 27 miles, measures are planned for 14 of those miles. So I let myself be fascinated by the opposition party's belief in the creation of funds. Here you can get money from one fund and credit to another fund, so you can use it for good purposes. A 50-billion-dollar fund. kr for transport, the right hand side is impressively out. The rate of return that can be used should not impress anyone, however. What does one achieve with a fund that cannot be achieved by ordinary means? In any case, the disadvantage is clear; the activity on the road and the track depends on varying annual returns. I would like to remind you that the sector needs more careful planning, not less. Reorganization is another sesame, sesame. We're looking at continuous contractions that can lead to more effective problem solving in our etats. It's a theme that we'll also discuss in the upcoming NTP. I am busy at most possible path and path. So I have no faith in extensive processes that move focus away from it. We're proposing a new NTP in spring 2013. He's going to be made in the year we go into. Thus, 2012 will be a very important year. Then we will discuss many important questions! The railway group, composed of leaders from the railway sector, recently presented many problem options. We've received recordings from the business community. Etats have been given the task of formulating new models for financing public transport. The maintenance release will be a very important theme. The same applies to forms of financing in general. It'll be an exciting year! We need more goods from road to rail and sea, and I look forward to close cooperation with the Minister of Fisheries and Coast about that. Let me conclude with the following statement: the transport sector has been cleansed of this government. We're doing very well. We do what many people have talked about, but no one has done before. There is still a lot of work to be done. Then I'm tempted to have a little quote in the end. It is Nils-Fredrik Nielsen who says it this way: ‘He took the lack of praise as an expression of mute admiration.’ [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e921	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e924	When I heard the scrapping list from the government council, it was supposed to be the government that gave money to all these roads. If you include collection, interest expense – the cost of these road projects – the drivers pay 100 pst. of the actual cost of road development. So the state pays a little bit, but it's really just for interest expenses and maybe a little bit of a little bit of a trifle. But the drivers pay approx. 100 pst. by the development projects now. Then I also get a little provoked when you see that the State Road Service is going out like puppets on behalf of the state council and says, "If you don't do as we say, you won't be allowed to build a road." Two examples of this are Alta and Harstad – where the council itself has said that if you don't let pressure you to build a road with tolls, we'll take the money to other projects. It is no longer a local initiative! It's purely State blackmail from a government council against local democracy, which is against tolls, but which very much want the money in the projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e931	I'm surprised by Hoksrud's intriguing that there is getting more and more roadway and more punctuality on the railway. He has even participated in some of these markings and start-ups. He's seen the happy faces. I would have liked Hoksrud to be happy with the local people around, and I would also have liked him to see what we can do here with local splinter layers, both on the road and on measures for soft road users. That is what this is all about. I'm busy with the most possible way and path, and I see that we can do it through different city packages. I just have to say that I don't see any reasonable reason why we're going to exempt the northernmost states from such splices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e936	The Minister of Transport must be commended for his bold self-confidence. It invites for reflection more than for admiration. My question goes on two things. One of them is the balancing proposition. Are county councils covered by floods and breeds to the detriment of county roads? The second is more about the principles. Then we are left in the budget and what several representatives of the government parties have brought forward, namely the criticism of using operating contracts. There, I also see that the Minister for Transport has been in that choir of criticism. It is such that the Dovre Group, which prepared an evaluation report on the maintenance contracts in 2010, pointed out: ‘However, the increase in costs over the period before 2003 can be explained by the scale of contracts and the increasing complexity of tasks’.» So there are apples and pears you compare – from more extensive tasks, more protection. Does the Minister for Transport accept that explanation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e952	Here were two questions. The first was for municipalities and municipalities. Blackevik does not take up the fact that on the track and road, for which the Ministry of Transport is responsible, the coverage is fully delivered in the new age. When the municipality and county councils are involved, separate funds have already been allowed, and the amounts that are there have been obtained after dialogue with the Ministry of Local Affairs. So they can I show you further there. So to the Dovre Group and the report. First of all, what I've said is that I'm busy with the most possible path and the most possible path – also the most possible maintenance. I don't see any reason for any reorganization moving focus away from it. Then I see quite clearly that changes have been introduced in the course of tasks and scope of tasks. But I think there's a need to go around this in conjunction with the next NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e961	The councils ended up missing boasts. It may have something to do with us thinking that she's doing the job pretty well herself – at least it's happening in any context. Now it's also like this government has 260 billion. kr more to walk with than the government that left in 2005, so it should basically just be missing. But there's an important move here, and that's that the Bondevik II government spent nine out of ten crowns on transportation. This government uses one in ten. My question goes on a matter that we have in the committee, which is quite serious, I think, because it is a big decision that is not being followed up. The council must answer me if she has not reached the railway station, or if she has not tried, when we do not get 250 km/h on the new Dovre track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e968	Let me just first give a good advice to Øyvind Halleraker: Travel around the country and see if the representative Halleraker will also enjoy better maintenance, for more punctuality for the railway and because there are so many new projects. It is even true that some people claim that there is a problem with getting there. So it's clear: I understand it provokes me to slip over this. But it seemed to me that the Right should escape me, and I thought they would be happy to join me, for they really want more way and better path, as they say. So to this project that is now going along the Mjösa. We're going to deal with this in a separate case, so there's more time to go into it then, but my choice is – instead of sending this project that was completed in the autumn of 2008, on new desert migrations – to give green light to build a coherent road and path now, because it needs to be done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e977	I record that the Council of State is looking positive and looking forward to most things, and I'm slipping over that. But when you look at a lot of the positive, the willingness to change can often be small. I chose to quote the party leader in the Center Party. Party leaders should listen carefully, not least when it is their own. So she said that we need: ‘a more offensive and long-term development of road and rail in Norway. All reasonableness implies that the system needs to be changed. Then is my question to the Council of State: will it now suggest that the Navarre's words are taken seriously – that we are now getting a process towards the national transport plan, where the system changes can precisely be made in a good way with regard to the Railway Agency and the State Road Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e987	The answer is yes. I agree with my party leader in what she says here. I have announced several times that when it comes to different organisation and funding, we are looking forward to the next national transport plan. We have even ordered several distribution projects under the direction of the Ministry of Transport to look at it. We have fast-working groups – the last one is this railway group. We have also had a lot of planning – it was the last Monday. It was nice to sit and listen to some aspects of the planning process. But what we're not supposed to have is such fast shifts that Bondevik II took the initiative, because there we have to deal with damage all the time until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e993	In my speech, I mentioned the Left's proposal for a representative, which was debated here in the spring, and was voted down by all parties – to plan long distances at a time, with concrete dates, on predictable funding, on opening up more state regulation and on the various projects being organised in separate companies. As I said, we were downhearted, and the Council of State was not particularly excited either. This rapidly working group of experts, as mentioned by the Council of State in its previous reply, has now delivered its report. What we can read is that this is almost identical to the Left's proposal. So my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State listen to its group of experts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1000	Let me first say to the Left that I haven't given an expression for any deficiency – yes, I haven't used the word "delight", that's true, I haven't done that – but I've often met with Borghild Tenden's posts and suggestions, because I think there's a lot that's worth looking at more closely. So she sometimes comes up with suggestions that are already in progress, and where there is no need for own decisions here in the Storting. In the case of the railway group, it points forward and is an important input towards the next national transport plan, in the same way as the intercity arrangement, the lightning arrangement and several other contributions will be, not least the railway network’s own recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1007	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1010	First, I must thank the President and the Presidency for a very pleasant letter dated 24 November this year, which all of us in the Committee on Transport and Communications have received. The Committee is hereby informed that it has received a framework of DKK 34 420 821 000, to which the Committee can set up within its framework. This is an enormous amount of money, and it's "all hour high" when it comes to government bets within this important area. Through the Committee's budgetary process, I have also been more and more overconfident that the red-green parties' settings and budgetary remarks will result in very good and necessary measures for the transport sector when all these billions are to be used during the coming year. Very well in aviation, very well on land and very well on the sea are to be found here, and I will in the following topics mention some maritime and coastal issues. On Monday I was visiting the company at Fitjar Mechanic Workshop on Schweissenset in the municipality of Fitjar. This yard has 45 added. They build boats and fleets for the farming industry, and they carry out conversions for the fishing fleet. This is an uncertain market, and the yard is therefore delighted that a year ago they were contracted to build and deliver a newly developed, advanced vessel such as the Coastal Agency. shall enter our oil protection equipment. On schedule, the Coastal Plant shall strengthen its operational activity and quality by five such vessels. Now they hope to add and guide that the option they have to build and deliver also no. two, come as a Christmas present now this year. There's a lot of evidence that there's gonna be a good Christmas on Svesenset in Fitjar this year too, for in Prop. 23 S on changes in the State budget of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, which we also have to deal with today, the Committee notes that the Government’s “Renewal Order Authority” is worth 153 million. kr, be attached. Then it will be a good Christmas for Fitjar Mechanical Workshop, which can also increase the workforce by ten added, and a good new year for the coast and for oil protection. It's good to sit here on the Stortinget. But what makes it extra generous is just being out where it happens, being able to see what we're doing here, and making decisions about it. On Wednesday of the next week, I am delighted to be on the bluff of Fjord1s M/F «Boknafjord». It is the largest gas ferry in the world, and it is at Fischerstrand Verft in Sula municipality. She must now be inserted into the Mortavika-Arsvågen connection before the end of the year, which means that there will now be 20 minutes between each departure. This ferry shall also serve as a spare ferry for the connection at E39 Halhjem-Sandvikvåg. There will be a much better connection over Boknafjord, while those who use the connection over Björnfjord can now expect C-ferry on this connection to really go. A large part of the budget increase of 45.5 million. kr in the post office for the purchase of national road transport services is just going to this measure. Until we get a ferry-free E39, coastal road, it's important for business as well as for people that we make the traffic along the coast as smooth and as safe as possible. For this reason, I am also very pleased that the majority of the Committee has raised the call for the government to draw up a plan for the phase-in of AutoPASS on national road journeys. This budget itself provides incentives for those engaged in maritime transport, and it has not least several measures that make maritime transport more efficient and safer. Nevertheless, we have even greater ambitions. In the form of a note, the Red-Green Party asks the government to cooperate with owners of goods, transport companies, shipping companies and port organisations on how best to achieve the objective of transferring more cargo to sea. We have great hopes for the government's further follow-up of this point. It has been claimed that the Storting, through its hearings and budgetary management, does not, by its government, rock a waste of its budget proposal. That in this process, in cooperation with the government, we have increased the transfer to the Rescue Company by 10 million. I thought I was very nice. This means that next year this important service will be operational with rescue skates along our entire coast, with bases also in Egersund and on Skjervøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1044	The government said when the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 was presented that it was an ambitious plan. Since then it has been repeated and repeated. In the government budget for 2012, the government does not follow its own plan. It's not very ambitious. The state of the road network in Norway has become worse under this government, both on the national road network and on the road network that the state has moved from 1 January 2010 to county municipalities. The ambition of the current year is for the government not to increase the excessive delays in road maintenance. It's not very ambitious. That goal doesn't seem to be met either. What is increasing strongly in the government’s transport policy is the use of tolls. Under this government, toll use has become a major source of financing for road construction in Norway. This is happening at the same time as Norway has become richer and richer, and at the same time as the state through the oil fund lends money to other nations, at low interest rates, for example, to these countries. must be able to build roads – new, modern and safe roads. In the 2012 Transport Budget, toll companies will make available a total of EUR 9,2 billion. kr. The government's national road investment is SEK 5.9 billion. kr. However, a better picture of the government’s increasing transport tax is as follows: So far – including the two major toll projects that the majority of Storting will adopt next Friday, 16 December – the toll bill from new projects adopted by the Stortinge parties other than the Progress Party will be a total of 16.3 billion. kr. With a total of 9.3 billion. NOK, which the drivers also have to pay to cover loan debts and collection, is the bill in New Year’s 25,6 billion. kr. There is a large-scale extra tax on transport in a long-term country on the outskirts of Europe, where businesses are struggling with distance disadvantages, where individuals are dependent on transport, and where road transport is essential both for business and for individuals. So misguided can be the transport policy. So clearly, the need for renewal of funding in the field of transport policy can be demonstrated. Then it becomes provocative when the government's own renewal consists of investigating short-haul trains and providing two national road projects with separate entries on the state budget. In its alternative proposal for the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the Progress Party has demonstrated innovation in transport policy, with clear, long-term, predictable and responsible funding. It will be in the government and finance minister's language theme to build the country, further develop the country, equip us for the future. I want to add: it will be safe management, and it will be sound and responsible use of money. This follows the Progress Party in its alternative state budget for 2012. First, however, I would like to point out that the government's slow pace in the construction of new roads, the lack of efforts to maintain today's poorly maintained roads and the loss of efforts to build centres on road-hazardous roads – the effort is «whole» 17 km of road in the middle of 2012 – neither seems particularly ambitious nor particularly responsible. In its 2012 alternative state budget, the Progress Party proposes to set up three funds, a 300-billion road fund. kr, a railway fund of 100 billion. kr and a city fund of 100 billion. kr. The return on these funds shall be used to finance road construction and railway construction. We in the Progress Party are pleased that the Right and Christian People's Party have gradually copied the old proposals of the Progress Party on Infrastructure Fund. The right has operated with its 50 billion maintenance fund. NOK for a few years, but still does not allocate money to this fund. The Christian People's Party is among the newest. That's good. After having rejected the proposal of the Progress Party on Infrastructure Funds, which has been promoted for many years, the 2012 draft budget of the Christian People's Party for the year 2012 presents proposals on infrastructure funds of 50 billion. kr – without a donation proposal, correct. But faith is there. Now both the Right Party and the Christian Party are good on board, so together we'll get this done. We're going to get a good forward party solution. This means that drivers, carriers and toll-payers, both businesses and individuals, can hope. The Progress Party also proposes the establishment of a State Road Undertaking and a State Railway Undertaking and will provide these companies with a total of 15 billion. kr in capital in 2012. These are tools that the government uses, and that the government used in 2010, when Statkraft was added 15 billion. kr in equity outside the ordinary framework of the State budget. The government thought it was both safe and responsible, and not dangerous, for interest rates and interest rates. The Progress Party considers State investment in roads and railways to be at least as important as State investment in wind turbines. On the other hand, it is a pity that the windmill-like struggle of the government, and not least of the Ministry of Finance, against new financing solutions that can link large investment needs in infrastructure with financial wealth, is still so great. Ventilation is required in the government offices and in the Ministry of Finance to get rid of this dogmatic resistance to the necessary renewal. Let me remind you that the government has just presented the balancing proposition for 2011. It shows that Norway is doing well; the surplus of the State budget is 116 billion. kr higher than assumed by increased oil revenues and increased mainland taxes. This means that the Progress Party's alternative budget for the current year is well within the framework of the action rule without including dynamic effects and foreign budgets, as we originally proposed in 2011. This means that the draft budget of the Progress Party for the current year was, and is, in fact, responsible and responsible. It emphasises that it is the economic substance, not the line set by the government or the Ministry of Finance, which is crucial in determining financial accountability. In the suspension, we have noticed that the government parties have the right to ‘assess the restoration of a maintenance and production department in the State Road Service’, and that ‘the State Road Service should be assessed whether the operation and maintenance of a geographical area should be carried out in order to compare this with the areas exposed to competition’. The progress party will oppose such a setback. I have shown in a reply to the report from the Dovre Group, which points to the reasons why contracts are becoming more expensive. A number of factors explain and support the fact that road maintenance on bad roads is actually becoming more expensive. The removal of competitive road maintenance appears, in the view of the Progress Party, primarily as politically justified, from a government vaccinated with scepticism and reluctance to use private solutions effectively and with public funding. In the 2012 alternative state budget of the Progress Party, strong efforts are being made. Renewed and reinforced state funding, proposed by the Progress Party, provides significantly greater efforts in the field of road investment – a total of 11.6 billion. kr to national road investments. In the setting, this is distributed on the main road corridors. The Progress Party proposes 1 billion. extra for operation and maintenance of the national road network. The Progress Party proposes significantly more for racial protection – a total of 600 million. kr. more than the government's proposals. The progress party is proposing 800 million. more on road safety measures. Both of these increases are distributed to the states, as shown in the setting. We propose a doubling of the loan scheme for county councils through interest compensation. That's 2 billion. kr more for upgrading the county road network, and it is also distributed quarterly, as shown in the setting. We propose an increase in the purchase of national road haulage services and roadside services with a total of 175 million. kr. The Progress Party's transport budget will increase efforts for new roads, for better maintained roads, for better race protection of roads and for better road safety. The Transport Budget of the Progress Party implements financing solutions in Norwegian transport that are already in use in other areas. There is greater speed in the development of Norwegian roads, with clear, long-term and predictable funding in the framework of sound economic policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1095	The President has registered dissatisfaction with the distribution of the lines in the last line change. The Committee asked for five lines and the Stortinget adopted it. Thus the President distributed two to the largest party and one to each of the other parties. It is up to the committee itself to determine how many lines they want, and they are distributed as the framework is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1098	Today, we are dealing with an area of central government and the activity of the Norwegian community that means an incredible amount to individuals and businesses. That is why most people I talk to around Norway say that this is too bad, we need to spend more money, we need to get more on all communications in Norway. We're simply on arrears. This concerns public transport around the big cities, where people are standing in piles waiting for a train to arrive and bring them safely to work, at the right time. This applies to road transport from production sites around the whole country, which must take account of humpets, swings and congested roads, which cause occasional damage to the load when it reaches its destination. This applies to drivers who are terrified of meeting a trailer around the next turn on a curved, narrow road without any possibility of getting away. We're simply on arrears. It would be unfair to blame the government council of Meltveit Kleppa. I have great sympathy for the fact that both the width and quantity of the area of responsibility make it a long everyday life – but it does not go into mute admiration. However, I have to remind you that Norway has more money than we have ever had, and it would have been right to spend something more on transportation. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Right has also allocated significantly more resources to the transport sector. Without new thinking, we are not able to deal with this, and we have said and pointed out several times – as several speakers have said today – that we must have another way of financing it. We were very pleased with what the head of the Central Party did a little while ago, which the Council of State has also partly supported, and we are waiting in suspense for what will happen if not so long. We've been pointing this out for a long time. A project I can't say much about is the Meråkerbahnen and the Trønderbanen. We were on an inspection up there over a year ago and then got a clear sense that this is something that gives top priority to the trombone layers. Now we know that Nord-Trøndelag and Sør-Trøndelag County Municipality, in consultation with the Swedish authorities, have formed a project where they want to carry this forward. That initiative is very much appreciated by the right. Rehabilitation of the Meråkerbahn will have an invaluable impact on East-West traffic throughout the Middle North. Similarly to the Trønderbanen: It has a very significant impact on the positive development of both business and housing patterns in both clusters. It is important today, but it is used by too few people, and it is not environmentally friendly. So we're disappointed that the government parties won't be with us in asking for a stronger government commitment to that project. Air traffic in Norway has increased sharply in recent years. We're satisfied with the way that Avinor has handled the increase. But today they have some problems because there are several expansion projects in line. We dare not think about what had happened if Avinor had had the same funding method as the Road Administration and the Railway Agency. However, we are a little concerned about a possible increase in fares; it can go down on Norwegian airlines to a great extent. The post remains a very important task for society. We have pointed out that parts of what the Post carries out today are not completely necessary, in our opinion – namely, the banking services. We are pleased that the Council of State has now said that they should assess it. This has been pointed out by the Right for several years. Maritime transport is a very important part of this. We've said many times that we need more over at sea from the road. It says in the Soria Moria Declaration, all the parties have said it – so why doesn't it happen? The government cannot decide how the transport is to be operated, but they can contribute very much by influencing it. Here we expect something to happen in the future. This just has to happen to something. On the ICT side, we're happy with what's done, but we're dissatisfied with the fact that it's done too little, and that we're now starting to get into the hang of it. I'm very happy that the government parties are with us, and I say that something has to happen here so that we don't get far behind the countries we compete with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1121	The completion of the deployment and operation of the emergency network throughout mainland Norway is an important matter. Terrorism on 22 July revealed the need to establish networks throughout the country as quickly as possible. I would like to commend the government for having shown the willingness to put in place a completely necessary tool for the emergency and emergency seats, so that they can carry out their important work for all of us in the best possible way, both in their daily work and in emergency and emergency situations. For the Committee, it is important that the emergency network operates between emergency situations, across and across levels of management, across geographical areas, responsibilities, and that capacity is sufficient. I will not comment on the delays in the project, any comments and suggestions from the opposition in the setting this time, it is done in previous cases – that is not much new to say. But when a reader reads the setting, a few impressions might be that the Progress Party was the only party in favour of a technology neutral bidding round. I just want to underline – as it has been done before – it was a technology neutral bidding round. Let me go over to comment on the opposition's message about OPS – obviously the Right Favorite Theme. Even in the matter of emergency networks, together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, they have a comment on this. So to some of the arguments: they claim that OPS will halve the extension time, provide guaranteed development costs, no budget cracks, it will be cheaper, and it will be high-quality construction. They also claim that a number of professional organisations are positive to OPS. I'd like to know who they're looking for. LO and Tekna Stat e.g. is at least not in that group. The European Investment Bank, the EIB, which contributes to the financing of two of the three Norwegian OPS projects, has gone through all the projects in which they have participated from 1990 to 2005. The EIB concludes that the average OPS projects is 24 pst. more expensive than traditional projects. I refer to my line earlier today. The E18 was approx. 1.2 B.C.E. kr more expensive than assumed, the contractors are now fighting over who is to pay the bill. Now perhaps someone thinks it is great that the state does not lose money on this, but I do not see that there are any benefits. The industry is now suffering, and you can risk bankruptcy, even though Halleraker's representative just pulls his shoulders and says this is the game's game. It's worth noting. Another example of how wrong things can be: in 2003, contracts were signed with two companies to modernise London’s T-road. Contracts totaled 15.7 billion. pounds, with a down payment period of 30 years. In 2007, one of the contractors went bankrupt, which resulted in London's T-Bahn having to pay 95 pst. of the company's liabilities. It cost the state $1.7 billion. pounds. In May 2010, it was decided that the other contractor partner would be purchased, and so London's T-Bahn again became fully owned by the public. This purchase cost 310 million. pounds. A colossal waste of money, said London's Conservative Mayor at the end of the OPS arrangement. In other words, this is a risk sport, and in addition it can be expensive, very expensive. In terms of expansion time, I just refer to the construction of the E6 Dal–Minnesund. It was built at a speed of 800 meters per month. There is no other road project in the past that has been built at this speed, not even E18. The recipe was enough crew at any time and enough money. OPS was not necessary to achieve this. In the case of high-quality construction, it has been shown that there are significant questions about it. There is a lot of evidence that the E18 was not built after the book. Major pollution problems are a result in which it can be very expensive to clean up. Many countries now warn against OPS. We know that more people are struggling with the financial and debt crisis because too much of the finance is tied up in this. The real nature of expenditure and its effects on the economy are not altered by private financing of transport projects. Funding other than the ordinary State budget, which pushes the expenditure on future government budgets, will also undermine the rule of action and weaken the state budget as a fiscal instrument. I am surprised that the conservatives in Norway are not concerned about this. Finally, a little visit to the Advance Party. They have been on a study trip to Poland and boast of how good they are in Poland to build motorways. The example they're referring to is autostrada A4. The road is definitely good, but it's built with tolls. That's not what the Progress Party says. Mr. Sortevik now told me in his statement that 25.6 billion. NOK was what we now spent on toll financing. In addition, the Progress Party will therefore eliminate a one-off fee and reduce the fuel charge, and they will remove all toll stations. So we can add up to a few billion more. So this money is going to go into the private car pockets, without the Progress Party for this money having spent a single penny more on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1140	First of all, I would like to boast of the Committee's work on further work on the Polar Circle at Helgeland Airport. The Progress Party has described the challenge for the Holy Land region in the past, but we have then stood alone on our remarks. Therefore, it is gratifying that all parties now realize the benefits a major airline could be, for business and for people most in the weekend region. Aviation is an international industry and it is incredibly important to provide a framework for this industry which creates good and healthy competitive conditions and which does not distance itself from the level of charges at a normal European level. Avinor has reached the maximum permitted loan framework in accordance with its statutes. At the same time, we see large-scale development projects and security measures that require large investments at many Norwegian airports. It makes sense, then, that the government parties are adding up to over 500 million. kr in dividends from Avinor. There is little doubt that these funds could have been used much more sensibly in the development and security measures at our airports than to push them into the large income drained to the state. It is with amazement that the government parties, in their comments on their Northern Region Strategy, no longer mention the northern regions as the main strategic area for Norway, for economic, political and strategic reasons. It seems almost as if the previously mentioned much-described North-Area effort today almost functions as an item that is pushed into all desirable good intentions, so that real-world projects are trained year after year, while the northern regions are brought forward during any celebration. A national strategy for the north came into effect already under the Bondevik II government. A little practical has been done since then, except that the government parties have voted in favour of every proposal the opposition has made – from rail to Russia to the coast road in Finnmark. It seems that the government doesn't care at all, except when it's party speakers. The level of ambition of the government parties is almost absent, and to emphasise that one sits and two hands are left to a large part of the responsibility for transport and infrastructure in the north to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – perhaps the most conservative department we have. Not so strange when the signals from the business community that want to get started are that they are not being heard, not being seen, or that the state's actors are on a completely different planet. If we look at what's available, there's no plans, but descriptions of something that could be planned in 10–20–30 or 40 years. We cannot continue with our non-existent bet. It is high time to translate plans into realities in terms of rail, road and port structures. The Progress Party is promoting new proposals to establish a coastal road in Finnmark – a coastal road that will strengthen settlement, business and all forms of preparedness. The distance will be reduced between Båtsfjord and Vardø from 270 km to 85 km. The road section Hasvik-Hammerfest will be greatly reduced. We are today in 2011. Despite the fact that the plans for a coastal road in Finnmark have existed before the war, we have the same challenges with distances, lack of an efficient transport network and roads as we had before the war. That the Progress Party wants to use oil money to build roads is no secret. We hope that one day we can have a majority so that we can also use them in Norway and not just in Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1155	I heard the Council's reply in the reply to Halleraker's reply and had to comment on it in the beginning, for the title of it is: when the decision to raise the issue does not matter. I believe that the Council of State must respond to the fact that desert migration is the reason why we do not want to send it on a new desert hike. That is the way to describe your position in Norwegian municipalities. I still think the Council of State has to respond to the Hallerakers line on why a roll-call decision does not matter when it comes to the kilometre speed in a new railway lane along Mjösa. I enjoy all the gentle faces and number of horn orchestras that stand up around when cutting strings, but I think it is important that the council notices that there are quite a number of people who are annoyed, and that there are also some unemployed musicians. The government has reinforced the efforts for the operation and maintenance of railways with more money for their purpose in recent years. I'm happy about that. I enjoy punctuality, and I enjoy new trains that are purchased. That's good. What's not good is that the money reaches down to less and less, and that the price rise takes away the railing. There is little help with a lot of money when the result gets smaller. If we're going to kill the cities and fail the districts, we're going to continue as we do now. The government is more than 2 billion. kr behind the national transport plan. The government has torn the list three years in a row. The money goes to less than before. So it doesn't have to count money when it's the number of meters of railing that counts. Large investments in spite of this, the Railway Agency has said that it has limited benefits if the state of the current facilities does not improve so that they can provide satisfactory operational stability and high punctuality. If the railway is the preferred option, this must be ensured. In the case of investments into the railways for 2012, the government has achieved 66,25 pst. the objective of the national transport plan. That would be 75 pst. In the case of investment on the double-track Oslo-Ski, only 31.80 pst. achieved with 75 pst. On the right, it is highly unfortunate that the government has postponed the implementation of Route Plan 2012 for an indefinite period of time. Deferred planning and construction of a number of train tracks due to a lack of leveling competence and a newly discovered large aftermath on the maintenance of Norwegian rail are in the same category. Investment in railway infrastructure, both for new and for maintenance, for double tracks and longer crossing tracks of more than 600 metres is needed. Should the railway win the competition in as well as to demand passenger traffic as freight traffic, it is just to say that in the case of goods, it goes wrong, literally! There is a need to think new, to plan further in the future, to finance different levels, to modernise and to allow for competition in railway development projects – as double tracks throughout the intercity triangle Skien-Oslo-Lillehammer and Oslo-Halden. That's one of the most important priorities we can do. Why doesn't the government want to think again? There is an ideological political disagreement about the use of cooperation between private and public. There must be no competition whatsoever. And there is a practical disagreement that everything is very well with regard to both planning and organization. If we recommend to the government to release the monopoly idea, we get a locked situation. The same number of travels by the Committee, and the same number of countries that have done just that government's own working group – in the report 'Main challenges for Norwegian rail' – now recommends that the government parties only deal with the fact that tolls for train development are also fine! However, the government has now received an investigation that clearly proposes to facilitate more Right-wing policies, with longer planning horizons, new forms of funding and modernisation of organisations. What's wrong with thinking differently? Well, just that the train was going to be the preferred alternative and benefit most people, business and environment. Then it's wise to choose the wrong thing. It's for the people we're here! The Government shall invest more in project financing. It is not possible to see in the budget. Transport shall take its part in the responsibility for reducing national greenhouse gas emissions. Railway is the solution, but it doesn't seem to be in the bet. Right wants to think differently. We will finance the project, plan for a longer period than one year, then finance, apply new forms of funding, open up to competition, set aside maintenance funds and modernise the railway system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1193	The Government's objective with transport policy is to provide an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system that contributes to growth and development. A key instrument for achieving the objectives is the transfer of more goods from road to sea. If we get part of the freight away from the highway, we reduce both the accidents, the queues and the wear on this part of the infrastructure. In addition, we reduce climate emissions, local pollution and noise caused by trucks. I am very pleased that I am also able to present a good budget for 2012, which will strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport, and which can help to transfer more goods from road to sea. In the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the annual framework for maritime transport and infrastructure has increased by 77 pst. compared to the previous transport plan. In 2012 it is proposed to allocate 1,090 million. kr for maritime transport and infrastructure. In 2012, the government will once again reduce the level of taxation on maritime transport. In total, charges have been reduced by nearly 90 million. NOK 3 years. In 2012, the coast fee is reduced from 20 p.m. to 10 pst., i.e. a fee bill of 33 million. kr. A further reduction must be followed up in the next budgets. With the 2012 draft budget, the government is well along the way with the follow-up to the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019 in the field of maritime transport. After three years of the planning period, the follow-up rate is 70 pst. The disembarkation service is an important maritime safety measure. At the same time, the pilot service provides important framework conditions for maritime transport, with a cost framework of 650 million. kr, financed by users. The government therefore wants to further develop a forward-looking, cost-effective and user-friendly unloading service. The service shall continue to ensure safety and the environment, but shall also be organised for economic activity. The Government has therefore decided to reduce a public sample to carry out a broad review of the pilot service. A NOU is expected to be released by the end of next year and will be central to the government's further efforts to further develop the unloading service. The 2012 budget also ensures a high level of maritime safety and enhanced oil protection. Over the last few years, measures have been put in place to clear oil from the five wrecks considered by the Coastal Agency to be the most important in the 2006 wreckage report. So far, two wrecks have been emptied, and the emptying of the last three wrecks began in 2011. Work has now been stopped due to the winter season with dark and risk of bad weather. – If there’s something we’ve had on the coast this year, there’s at least a lot of wind. Safety considerations indicate that we will review the work again in the spring of 2012. It will have no economic impact beyond what is allocated to the work. The government is proposing to grant $30 million. kr for the establishment of BarentsWatch. BarentsWatch shall be a comprehensive monitoring and information system, including: shall support the responsibility of Norway in the northern seas. An open information portal and an enclosed part shall be established. The information portal shall be launched in May 2012. The closed section will provide institutions with operational responsibilities at sea with access to a common, evaluated situational picture. It can provide improved operational management across responsibilities. I have great faith that BarentsWatch will be a very useful tool for the public, researchers and administration. The oil protection system shall also be strengthened in 2012. Since 2006, the government has greatly increased the appropriations for oil protection. A large-scale replacement and upgrade of the equipment has been carried out in the state depots. The new environmental risk and preparedness analysis of the coastal facility shows the need to strengthen local preparedness. The government sees it as crucial to facilitate a rapid local presence. For 2012, it is therefore proposed to increase the allocation of 15 million oil protection products. kr. The increase will strengthen the accessibility of the municipalities and the inter-municipal sample sizes to the necessary equipment. The government has also implemented a strengthening of the draft terms of reference in recent years. There are now five vessels along the coast: three in Northern Norway, one in the West and one in the South. An overall assessment of the towing boat standby is now being carried out. The draft selection examination shall be completed at the end of the year and, after external quality assurance, will provide the government with an even better basis for assessing the service. An important question that needs to be clarified is whether the State should build and operate its own tugboats or continue to rent. It will also be important to put in place a robust, long-term model. The Government is committed to presenting a comprehensive transport policy. Interaction between means of transport is essential for strengthening maritime transport. For this reason, I am sceptical that the government should develop its own forecast or short sea shipping strategy on the side of transport budgets investigations and national transport plan plans 2014-2023. Having said that, however, I am very positive about cooperation within the established national transport plan process. Both the state, carriers, shipping companies, shipowners and ports have a responsibility and a role here. That is why I would like to invite these actors to a series of meetings in the spring of 2012. I look forward to the fact that, within such a framework, we can jointly develop a broadly anchored short sea shipping strategy. The rescue company has an important role to play in coastal preparedness. I am therefore pleased that the government parties have strengthened the grant by 10 million. Compared to last year's allocation. The increase represents a proposal of 54.4 million. kr to the Rescue Company in 2012. Then I would like to stress that both the Coast Guard and the rescue helicopter service have important roles in the Norwegian emergency response. There are also resources that need to be seen in the context of the role of the Rescue Company in ensuring maritime safety. The Government has submitted a good budget for the coast. The government is fulfilling the commitments of the National Transport Plan to strengthen maritime transport, while enhancing maritime safety and oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1228	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1231	For us who live along the coast, it is important that the Rescue Company is operational and has enough crew and ships to operate the work. It is important for most people that the Rescue Company continues the important and good work they do. We've seen in the papers that government officials boast of giving $10 million. kr more than what they had first thought – even though it's 20 million. kr less than what is needed to maintain current operations. I expect the Council of State to be proud and satisfied with the work she has done in the field of maritime safety. My question will then be, and even if she talked a little about it now – I would like to have this clarified: What direct, concrete measures can be taken to ensure that they will continue to be in good condition overall?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1240	As I was in my post, the rescue service, the total rescue offer, consists of several actors, where the rescue company plays a very important role. We've seen that in many ways. I am very pleased, and, as I said, I am very pleased that my good colleagues here at Stortinget found more money for the Rescue Company. So it's still not going to get away from the fact that the rescue company is a non-profit organization, which of course has to be responsible for its activities and operations. I note the fact that the rescue company has 700 million. kr on book. I also note that they receive money from the Ministry of Culture's budget. Now we don't know what it's going to end with, but after what I hear reports about, the gambling activity among Norwegian citizens is increasing as high pots, so now I understand that they're on track last year. It will show, but at least it's a good contribution to the Rescue Company.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1247	In recent times we have learned that the hurricane «Berit» and other storms have roamed along our coast. We see that shipping around the city has stopped for periods. A tunnel would be far safer for shipping than what we have today. Governments have previously questioned the navigational capacity of Norwegian seafarers and have argued that they will not be able to find the tunnel. As I see it, Norwegian seafarers have always been good at finding a safe and lukewarm port. We would hardly have had «Tore on track» in the NRK if it wasn't for Norwegian seafarers actually to navigate and get to a safe port. According to meteorologists, there must be more storms, not fewer. Is the Council of State now convinced that we need City Ship Tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1256	Without having a detailed analysis of «Tore on the Track» and that type of TV show, I guess I suspect it's not because of the navigational skills that people are now traveling around the world to find their relatives. I think there are other drivers than the navigational skills that are crucial, to be a little spooky. In the case of City Ship Tunnel, I have to make it clear once again from this pulpit that it does not concern my possible lack of faith in Norwegian seafarers' navigational skills, but that there are quality insurers, the consultants there, who have raised questions about the use of tunnels under poor weather conditions. So I'm dealing with these consultants and the questions they've asked. The coastal works are now considering this in more detail. So I'm going to add, as usual, to follow the procedures we have in terms of quality assurance and process on it. I get the quality assurance early in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1270	I'm going to ask the Council of State for U 864. There is no doubt that the government's changing view in this matter has resulted in a considerable delay. The government had a budget of 640 million in 2009. kr inside, and we supported that in the right. However, the money disappeared in the revised national budget, as we know. Later, an impact assessment has been started, which we have also supported the government, because we believe it was important to get answers to some questions. At the same time, we in the Right are aware that mercury is going up, and the impatience is well in the process of becoming quite noticeable in our party. The Council of State has earlier said from this pulpit that it should not be on the money. She has also said that mercury is going up. Is this what the Council of State insists on? I think it will interest the whole coast and the fishing interests to get answers to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1277	I'd like to repeat what I'm stuck with, and I'm going to come back to that. But what I am equally concerned about is that this is a matter that is so demanding and so serious that I make a decision without having thorough investigations, quality assurance I find irresponsible. That's why I'm very happy that the Right supports me in such a way, as opposed to a couple of other parties that the Right likes to appear together, that think it's just starting now. I think that, with respect to reporting, is irresponsible. My only, and the only, government goal is to do this in the environmental, safety best possible way. So far, what's been presented, and what we've presented, is that mercury is going to rise. In respect of the processes that are happening, we're going to get the advice from the expert, and then we're going to have a good opportunity to discuss it further in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1287	I think the Council of State presented many positive things that lie ahead. A lot of it corresponds to what we've suggested from the Right. One of those things is the meeting that the Council of State now briefed on that she wanted to have with various parts of the industry in coastal traffic, to get speed on that piece. I think that is absolutely imperative. It looks like there are barriers around each turn roughly. One of them seems a little unlucky. Is the Council aware that an investigation has been carried out into an intermodal port or transport centre in the Trondheim region? One of those investigations concerns a central one in a gravel roof deep inside the country. What does the Council of State think about such investigations when we try to achieve intermodality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1292	Let me first of all thank you for the nice words – I take that to myself, and I appreciate it very much. So that's what the representative Myraune says, that we can make great decisions in this room. However, the main decision-making competence to move more goods on the keel lies with others, mainly the goods owners. Here I think it takes a little bit of work to actually make product owners understand that it can pay off, even on the bottom line, to use more maritime transport, because it's actually not that it's free to use trailers either economically or in every way. Having a good dialogue with both shipowners, shipowners and ports at all, I think it is very important. Then I have great respect for local democracy. I've been a local politician myself for many years. But I'm definitely going to do everything I can to make that port, the central, in central Norway being laid... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1301	The number is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1305	I agree with the Council of State that there are several things going in the right direction here, among other things. is the reduction of the coastal charge from 20 pst. to 10 pst. an example of that. However, I would like to warn against the way in which the Council of State refers to the money the Rescue Company has on book, because in many ways it is the Rescue Company's oil fund. If I were to take the council seriously in the way she talks about how the rescue company is going to use its oil fund, we would at least say in this room that it was irresponsible if the nation of Norway had done the same thing. The councils said that there had been a lot of wind on the coast, and it has also blown around the issue of City Ship Tunnel. What is important to me is whether all the arrangements will now be completed and clarified, so that we can, if we wish, be allowed to adopt City Ship Tunnel in the National Transport Plan. Can the Council of State guarantee that everything is in place at that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1312	To the rescue company's oil fund: it's clear that it's a buffer, and it has to be managed wisely. When I have pointed out that, after all, they have the money, it is also because I know a lot of non-profit institutions that have not fully received what they wanted, but that do not have such a capital base to bear. So it's a little bit about the way we treat the whole ideal sector, and we're not getting away from the fact that the rescue company is part of it. Then, of course, it's about the rescue company, like everyone else, having to look at the priorities they're doing. I just have to take note when they said they were going to add a boat to the dock, that it is possible that they did not have any other savings proposals. I'm not going to get into that. In the case of City Ship Tunnel, we are on a route in relation to what we have been saying all along, to deal with the matter in the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1321	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1324	We have reason to rejoice over signs that show that we are successful in many areas of transport policy. The most important thing for us must be to succeed in road safety, and here are the positive results. For the second consecutive year, we see a sharp reduction in the number of deaths on Norwegian roads. According to Trygg Trafikk, 158 people have lost their lives in traffic during the 11 first months of the year. In the same period last year, 194 people died. In 2010 we ended up at 208 traffic fatalities. Things indicate that we can end up at under 200 killed in traffic in 2011. Also, the number of hard damage is going down and significantly lower this far this year than at the same time last year. There has been a lot of focus from the opposition parties on the fact that we have been worse than Sweden in terms of road safety. Unfortunately for Sweden, we must now be able to establish that this is no longer the case. In the first ten months of the year, we have passed Sweden and have fewer traffic fatalities than they have, in relation to the number of inhabitants. This should only encourage further efforts. A zero vision, a desire for a future without killing and hard damage in traffic, is our leading star. So far in this NTP period, we can report that we're on track. We are on the way to building a mid pulley and with middle measures. We are on track with the road safety measures. We are on track with the NTP escalation plan – yes, even trains have begun to run. We are engaged in road safety; we are engaged in building new, traffic-proof roads. That is why, despite the financial crisis and a tight budget, we have the enormous investment in transport that we have. But we are also concerned with conveying that road safety work is about focusing on the whole traffic system, both on the road, on the vehicle and on the driver. We are dedicated to conveying that although we are going to build roads that allow us as road users to do wrong, we will never have the opportunity to build roads that allow us to break the law. The part of this contract is to keep the correct speed, not to drive in a drug-induced condition and to use the safety belt. That is why we are also focusing on measures to help road users keep the law. We're betting on control activities. We're putting on dot load. We are betting on automatic traffic control and also on average speed measurement. And we see that this works. But what has not worked is the right-hand side's belief in competitive outsourcing. This has been expressly rejected by the Riksrevision. They say that the operating costs of Norwegian roads have doubled following the competitive outsourcing of the operating contracts. This is no news for us, but got new news last week, when Bergen's magazine took up the theme. The fact that the 2010 price increase was only 60 pst., just helps to make the black story a little less black. This clearly shows that the right-hand side's belief in modern solutions is not working. We have got half as much on the road network as we could have got. That is why, in our comments, we have asked that it be assessed to restore a maintenance and operating department in the state road system. Vice-Chancellor of the Forecast Center, Kjell Sensenset, even in Our Veger, says that ‘it was a loss to privatise the entire production business of the Road Service.’ We use approx. 1 billion. kr per year on operating contracts. What half of this is, we can all figure out. Think how much money we're throwing out of the window! Think how much maintenance we could have done for this money! Imagine that long ago we could have stopped the fallout on the road network! Imagine how many miles of asphalt we could have spent on this money! Think how much time- and cycle path we could have built for this money! Think how many miles of middle parts we could have gotten for this money! Imagine how many intersections we could have reconstructed, curves that could have been fixed, side terrain that could have been cleared! Think how much road safety we could have got! I have said that before, and I say it again: in terms of road safety, we are concerned to focus on the whole traffic system, both the road user, the vehicle and the road. This tells all the parties that they agree, but in terms of practical policy, especially the Progress Party, but also the Right, stands out. Their focus is mostly on the road, primarily on the construction of middle parts. We also believe that the construction of middle parts and other middle measures is positive, but there are many other measures that need to be taken to ensure the success of road safety work. Traffic accidents occur everywhere — even on roads where no middle parts are built. We can never build ourselves out of traffic accidents. Therefore, measures in relation to other parts of the traffic system are equally important. High speed is a contributing cause of half of the fatal accidents on Norwegian roads. We don't need higher speed limits; we need a greater effort to get us to keep the speed limits we already have. Nevertheless, the Right Party and the Advance Party will continue to increase the speed limits of the motorways. We want more police checks, we want more photo boxes, and we want more average measurement of speed between the photo boxes, so-called distance ATK. The foreground part and the right part will wind down the distance ATK. The evaluation shows that the number of deaths and injuries is significantly reduced. Nevertheless, the Progress Party and the Right propose to wind up the action. They justify this, in the same way as last year, that in 2006 the Data Protection Authority was against this measure. The fact that the Data Protection Authority no longer has anything to delay in the handling of personal data, as it has chosen with regard to the technical solution, clearly they have still not received.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1356	The rescue company is important to Norway, and they are making a very important effort to save people and materials from accidents. Nevertheless, the government raised a government budget where the rescue company had to save 30.6 million. kr, so that the rescue company will have to take two lifeguards out of service. This is what we in the Progress Party very disagree with, and so in our alternative state budget for 2012, we went in to increase the entry by 30.6 million. kr in order to ensure the continued operation of today’s lifeguards. I have registered that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre must have got a little bad conscience, but perhaps only a little, because suddenly they will increase the original budget, but only by 10 million. kr. This is 20.6 million. kr less than the rescue company itself considered necessary and is therefore not sufficient to ensure further operation. Now, however, the Council of State claims that they have other and better solutions, but the one who is alive will see. What is really alarming in this matter is that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are picking up these 10 million. kr from the budget line for new installations and major maintenance, a budget line such as, inter alia, to increase capacity in Norwegian ports, or should have been done. One thing is at least certain, and that is that the red-green socialist government does not take maritime transport seriously. I have noticed that it is a debate on who is the real environmental party in Norway. The speech of the figures in the case of oil protection is at least very clear. The advance party not only prioritizes the rescue company, with 30.6 million. kr in addition to the government's original proposal, but we are also going in for 50 million. extra kr for oil protection along the Norwegian coast. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to immediately start work on the lifting of the submarine U-864 and the removal of the mercury cargo in the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland. Self-taught environmental parties, such as: SV, has nothing to boast about in the budget area of the Transport Committee. I don't want them to let anything very cheap get away from talking about lightning trains, because I think it's pretty funny -- yeah, maybe comical -- when the people who speak about the budget of the Progress Party and call it irresponsible, or use other words, they're the same as seriously talking about spending 500 billion. kr for cross- and cross-country lightning trains in Norway. Let me also say a few words about the Norwegian road network. The E18 is one of Norway’s most important roads, and a large proportion of Norway’s population live along the road. In many places we have safe quadruple roads, but there are still many routes left that are very dangerous to traffic. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have a common clear note in the vote that it is very important to initiate the design of the different motorway sections of E18 where there are currently no completed plans, among others. on the life-threatening route between Tvedestrand and Arendal. However, the Progress Party is all alone in devoting the funds to it, and for 2012 we are proposing 11.6 billion. kr for national road investments. 2,2 of these billions shall be used in the transport corridor 3. The progress party would also like to do something about Rv. 41, where cars that meet trailers have to go far into the faucet, maybe far off the road, and rv. 9 from Kristiansand through the Setesdalen to E134, which must have yellow mid-stripe. Oil money builds a road. Our socialist government has lent us 61 billion. kr of the oil fund for Germany at cheap interest rates, so that Germany can build more and more new, better and safer roads. Maybe it's time to do the same in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1379	That's not all that can be seen, but it notices. By giving top priority to the maintenance of the railway from both the red-green government and the railway itself, we see that things are gradually going better. Several trains are on the way, fewer passengers say bad words on the first pages of the newspaper, and fewer conductors are grappling to a new working day. Punctuality and regularity have improved. The train shakes less, to the delight of all who depend on the railway every day. In week 45, we had a punctuality of 94 pst. It was the best in years. Our requirement for NSB is 90 pst. Ballast cleaning, changing sleepers, switches, signalling systems and contact lines are not necessarily visible, but are marked. But if the railway is not a terminal, it still has major challenges. The only way to solve this is for rail budgets to continue to escalate in the years to come – for many years to come. The 2012 rail budget shows an increase of 1 billion. kr. It gives room for much renewal of today's infrastructure, but also for investment in new railways. We continue the double-track development on the Vestfold track. We start the job of connecting Grenland to the railway properly, with the start of the Eidanger tunnel. There is full propulsion on the construction of ERTMS signalling systems on the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway. The Dovre track shall be upgraded to double-track north of Eidsvoll. This is an important piece to put in place continuous double tracks in the intercity triangle. In a few years we'll have double tracks all the way to Hamar. In the joint project E6/Dovrebanen, on which basic work has already started, there have been many opinions about trasé elections. This is a matter that has been going on for several years. The path and the control plan were established before the NTP and the new intercity strategy were completed, and I am reassured that the remaining sections northwards can be built according to a new IC strategy with a design speed of 250 km/h plus. The planning of the giant Oslo-Ski project will continue next year. Unfortunately, there has been a delay due to planning challenges, especially with the introduction to Oslo. In the budgetary position, the Labour Party, the Red-Greens, is asking that the 2013 budget should provide for the pre- and basic work that can be done, so that full progress can be achieved on the 2014 project. But also in the west they need double tracks. We've seen the significance of the new double track between Sandnes and Stavanger for the growth in the number of travelers on that route. The next distance out must be Bergen-Arna. It is in the final phase of the regulation work in Bergen and with the acquisition strategy for a new signalling system in the Railway Station. In the setting, the Workers' Party, the Red-Greens, asks that the government provide sufficient level-clearance for the project to be launched in 2013. The railway works must dispose of their resources in such a way that it is possible. The rumors about the death of the new base model are strongly exaggerated. A new route model in Eastern Europe to exploit new and improved infrastructure will be fully operational from December 2014. But as of December 2012, travelers will notice great improvements. Half-hour departures to Spikkestad, against hourly departures today, half-hour departures to Jessheim and Dal, against hourly departures today, and hourly departures to Kongsvinger, against a most varied offer today. In order to meet the transport challenges of the future, the environmentally friendly and land-efficient rail must be the backbone of the transport system in the population-rich areas. In that case, priority must be given to the railway. Take the Eastfold track as an example of a stretch you want to rust up. You complain that it is too bad, and that you are far behind schedule. What have we done in the past? Well, priority was given to building the four-field E6, to building the four-field E18, and then you have to build the railway afterwards. For the future, we need to give priority to the railways first, as we do, for example. have done with the Lysaker-Asker section with a new double track there, which is built before building a new E18 westwards. There's a lot of exciting research work going on for the future rail system now. Intercity and high-speed investigations are particularly important. In just under three months, the floors will present their proposal for a new NTP. We have to move on to the railway side. We need to have a time fixing of double tracks in intercity, we need to get a good foundation to say something about future high-speed trains, and we need to upgrade the infrastructure even more to reverse the development of freight traffic. The situation of rail freight traffic is very critical. Development is in the wrong direction. I am pleased that the Minister of Transport is working on the matter, and we expect to come back with a plan to solve the acute situation of freight traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1402	I notice that the opposition shows a varying degree of dissatisfaction over what is happening in Norway. The representative Hoksrud has a tendency to be very sad – perhaps not quite so sad today, but there is a slightly more humiliated reaction compared to the reactions of the party leader in the Progress Party, who is often shocked. The right has allowed sports to go into talking about most sectors and the welfare community as a whole. It won't stop here. The progress party is struggling with monopoly money, while the right only talks. They do not have the money to follow up what they say they should do. This is where it must be given a real orientation. Norway is characterised by growth, low unemployment, more resources for well-being and infrastructure. This is happening at the same time as Europe experiences stagnation, record unemployment and strong cuts in public investment and welfare. It becomes almost surrealistic, but the biggest concern in Norway is the so-called butter crisis. Despite the need for tight economic governance, the transport sector is winning once again. Since we took over in 2005, we have increased the allocation to the road and the runway by really over 50 pst. No government has invested similarly in infrastructure, and we have even higher ambitions for the national transport plan that is now coming. It may seem that the Right Party and the Advance Party have not brought this with them. I record that, while almost all of Europe has understood that OPS funding is expensive and stupid, this is the magic formula of the Right and Advance Party. It's sad – to use Hoksrud's words – that the Right and Advance Party are characterized by so much dogmatism and not ability to think new. For the Workers' Party, the resources allocated are the ones that apply. Of course, we're involved in discussing smart organization solutions, but we don't believe in Christmas, even though it's approaching Christmas. Nothing is more important than road safety. We are therefore very happy that it looks like fewer traffic fatalities in 2011 than in 2010. Let me nevertheless stress that one hard damage or killed in traffic is one too much. The work to achieve zero vision therefore needs to focus on a wide range of instruments. High speed is one of the main causes of the most serious road accidents. So it's going to be completely absurd when the Right Party and the Advance Party are going to increase the speed limits and take away average measurements, so-called ATK. It may seem that it is more important for the Right and the Advance Party to become popular with some voters, rather than taking responsibility for reducing the number of hard damage and killing in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1423	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1426	I have noticed that the National Audit Board’s review of the State Road Service’s business for 2010 found that the increase in the cost of operating contracts was outstanding, i.e. 87 p.p. in 2010 and that the competitive situation surrounding the operating contracts is also not particularly good. The national audit finds it critical that no action has been taken in the past to counter the cost increases. Similarly, the National Audit Office points to a lack of conformity with the contract. That's 66 pst. of the examined operating contracts. In fact, the national audit finds it unfortunate that there is no data to allow comparison of quality before and after the outsourcing or to quantify an increase in the efficiency of the outsourcing, as provided when the Storting deals with this issue in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 1 for 2002–2003. I have not previously seen such a clear and conclusive judgment of the Bondevik government's competitive outsourcing of the Road Administration's production activities. But there is also a clear criticism of this government because it has not done enough to stop a galloping price increase, as it reversed the Famous Storing Decision of 2002. Because it's not new. The current Minister for Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete, explained in 2008 that she had gone looking for the foreseen 1-billion-billion-dollar efficiency gain. kr, which would result from the reorganisation of the state road system and from the competitive outsourcing of the production activity. She just hadn't found it. I have noticed that the government parties in the position of the transport committee now refer to a cost increase of up to 100 pst. on new functional contracts for operation and maintenance since the termination of the Road Administration’s production activities. Furthermore, the government parties point out, quite correctly, that the administrative costs of the State Road Administration have also increased sharply, because contract management and supervision of operation and maintenance are priced. Therefore, the Government Parties ask the Ministry of Transport to consider restoring a maintenance and production department in the State Road Administration when examining the national transport plan for the period 2014 to 2023. Furthermore, the Government Parties request the Ministry to assess, quite immediately, whether the State Road Administration itself should carry out operations and maintenance in a geographical area in order to compare this with the areas exposed to competition. This is music in my ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1435	It is remarkable which picture of Norway draws the right hand parts. Within the area by area, they talk Norway down on what is real, as well as within the transport sector. I respect the ambitions and priorities of building up roads and railways even faster than the government at the expense of other needs, for example. in school, health and care for the elderly, but I do not respect the fact that the right parties are talking down Norway in the way they do. Anyone who has traveled along Norwegian roads in recent years cannot have avoided seeing it being built and maintained — not everywhere, but along many of our national and county roads. Same thing on the railroad. Double tracks are being built on all three legs of the intercity triangle, and there is a lot of money being used to re-take the maintenance seat suspension that the Right has also been involved in creating, but not doing anything about it. It is therefore not correct when the Right says that Norway’s competitiveness is weakened. The best objective of good competitiveness is whether we have competitive businesses and profitable jobs. It has Norway, and we have over 250,000 more of them now than when we took over in 2005. About two out of three new jobs have come in the private sector despite a global financial crisis. Norway is designated by the World Bank as the sixth best country in the world to engage in industrial activities. Today we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. We have a well-driven society, a high level of competence, good welfare systems and a stable framework for business. We're betting on education, research, simplification, not least on transportation. That's how we equip ourselves for the future, how we create more jobs, more profitable businesses, more growth and steady economic governance in the midst of a world that is otherwise marked by enormous uncertainty. This doesn't mean that we don't have challenges, but the black picture that the right-hand side is drawing is not correct. I notice that the Right Continent – for six years now, since they were in government – has been talking and talking about the bad network, and that the government needs to spend more money, a paradox in itself because they themselves were responsible for this until 2005. Despite the continuous complaints of the Right, most recently expressed by the Right Osmund Ueland, the Right will not spend more money on the railway than the government puts up in next year's budget. On the contrary, we see that the Right in next year's budget, again, as this year, cuts in the budget for the operation and maintenance of the railway and supports the government's proposal for an investment budget for the railway. So what does the Right actually mean? Ueland is talking about the great railway bluff and that the Norwegian people are being led behind the lights. That must be the Right Railway Budget he's talking about. This should be honest with you in the future. I look forward to a new debate on the national transport plan by 2013, and I look forward to the investigations by the Department of the New Year on high-speed rail. We initiated these investigations in the previous period. This has resulted in a greater focus on rail speed than before, which the railway needs to be competitive. This government has prioritised the development and maintenance of the railway. Before 2005, there was no investment on the railway. Now we're building the railroad for the next 100 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1448	I would like to take advantage of the need to talk a little about the double-track Oslo-Ski, which is the second most important railway project in the national transport plan. It is important for all commuters from Eastfold, from Follo and from the south of Oslo. It's important to get more goods on the track. The Oslo-Ski route is the gateway to Europe and not least the start of high-speed trains to Europe. The project has been budgeted for 275 million. kr in planning for 2012. That's good. But what's not as good is that the project has to postpone its launch until 2014 – this is because planning takes longer than you thought. For us who have been working for this project for many years, such news is bad news. Of course, I also understand that when you want to see a project over 100 years, the time from 2013 to 2014 may not be that long, but for all the commuters who are still waiting for a better offer, it doesn't seem like it. I can understand that there are design challenges with the project, but then it is unlikely that it is important to get things clarified as soon as possible. Therefore, it is important that municipalities ensure efficiency in planning, so that the regulatory plans and detailed plans are ready for autumn 2012, as a means of progress. In addition, it is important that everything that can be done by groundwork and other work is done before 2014, so that when the start-up day comes, it is free from out-of-office obstacles. It is important that we get an updated progress plan for the project as soon as possible – and at the latest in the context of the 2013 state budget. I have understood that the biggest challenge lies at the introduction to Oslo, and that for Ski and Kolbotn, planning is actually going well. Then I thought it would be nice to start at Ski Station, start by drilling from Ski against Oslo. That would promote the project. Because when we talk about the largest and most important transport project in the national transport plan, we have to think of different options. There is at least no good reason not to start at Ski Station. The work there can be done finely even if they plan the tunnel into Oslo. In the opinion, the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre have submitted a note asking the government to clarify the plans quickly and that, in the context of the 2013 budget, it is necessary to facilitate progress and basic work, so that it is ready for 2014. We are also asking for a progress plan, which I am talking about earlier in my article. I'm surprised that no one from the opposition is behind that remark. That's weird. But we from the government party are at least too much pressure on the Oslo-Ski project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1464	At a time when the rest of Europe is cutting in basic welfare and transport, this government has pursued a policy that will enable us to continue stepping up the transport sector. Transport is also dependent on other policy areas — a business policy that creates values and gives people jobs, a education policy that provides skills, and the state keeps track of the economy. The reward scheme for better public transport has been widely agreed on. The representatives of both the Right and the Christian People's Party have today highlighted public transport and climate in their contributions. In Kristiansand, both the Right and the Christian People's Party go in a different direction, it looks like. They've put the whole reward pot in jeopardy. This is very alarming. The rapporteur and the vice-president of Kristiansand, together with the Progress Party, have strayed from agreements concluded both with the State and with the municipalities around Kristiansand. It seems that climate and public transport were not so important for the Christian People's Party and the Right when it was about to be outsourced to action. The rapporteur shall meet the Minister for Transport this week. I expect clear responses and measures to achieve climate objectives and increased collective action. I – and a lot of people with me – follow me excitedly, and I hope that they choose wisely in the end. The Committee received a clear message from a single part of the country on a visit to West Agder: work on the four-field road from Kristiansand to Stavanger should be speeded up. A whole part of the country is impatient. We believe that funding for planning needs to be increased, and will work hard to achieve this more quickly than it is being put up for today. Finally, I'll say a little bit about universal design, which is thoroughly described in the proposition. The working party is for everyone to be able to participate in society on equal terms, and transport is absolutely essential to realize our vision of a society for everyone. The technology that can be used to improve the accessibility of all is good welfare technology. I note that there is ongoing work in the field of standardisation, so that the principles of universal design can be realised. Electronic supervisors shall be in place in 2012, and there are targets for further work on this. I would like to encourage the Council of State and the Department to speed up and increase efforts on the use of both well-being technologies and good, old, traditional road work, so that everyone can take part in and enjoy the social action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1479	I want to spend my time talking about the City Tunnel. 25 years ago, a propellant company was set up in which the western municipalities, together with fishing teams and fishing organisations, entered into a joint venture to distribute the City Tunnel. I had the pleasure of being the chairman of the board of directors of this company for a decade. Some of the first company did was to find out if the users of the ship's tunnel could use this tunnel after he was built. We saw that as absolutely decisive, otherwise there was nothing to do with spending money on the project. The company then engaged the country's best competence in this field, NIVA, which laid out measuring instruments at both the tunnel openings around the cottage, which lay there until the spring of the following year. This means that one got with it both a full northwest storm and a full southwest storm before that period these were out. Measurements were to be made on the wind and current conditions, and the conclusion was very straightforward and clear, which led the company to move on with the project. There was no problem for users either to get into the tunnel or to get out of the tunnel, i.e. this famous so-called hole. So a big message was created, St.meld. No 34 for 1997–98. There the government recommended the development of a pre-project for the City Ship Tunnel. This process ended later. The coastal works later developed proposals for the content of the pre-project together with calculations of the costs of realizing it. The Government of the Ministry of Fisheries joined the recommendation. The members of this project group were: project manager: chief engineer Svein Fjeld from the Coastal Directorate Project Leader: civil engineer Magne Strand Quality Manager: Head of Department Arnold Jacobsen at the Coastal Works They presented this pre-project in March 2001, and there is a very clear confirmation of the results that the company received. Then it's a mystery to me that a now started with new distributions, after two such distributions have been done just about it a now seen question mark by. Then I doubt that one has honest intentions to build the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1510	For many years we have discussed the possibilities for linking the Gjøvik track with the Dovreban. Eighteen miles is left. The German occupying power was in full swing with the work, and that's probably about the only thing that we thought was a good idea of what the German occupying power contributed to our area. But in any case, in time this has been a theme of countless annual meetings in most county parties. Everyone agrees that the idea is good, but the idea has also been lost in meeting tough priorities in railway development. In the eastern part of the world, all thinking about communication has sprung out of the desire to get to and from Oslo. It means a north-south perspective, while societal developments show us that the east-west is becoming very important. This is related to the heavy load in Oslo. Not all traffic can be channelled through Oslo. If we want a railway network to be modern and timely also in a long time perspective, we should also think of an east-west axis in railway terms. Regional development in the Mjø region is leading to an increasing need for urban communication. Modern, climate-friendly regional planning also suggests an opportunity to put ground in such a context. You can't do that today. Either way, there is a consensus that we should give priority to the development of existing lines first. From that perspective, it is particularly important to look at how the upgrading of the Gjøvik track will be the best investment possible. It is clear that if, as part of the planning work on the development of the Gjøvik track, a further extension of the path with connection to the Dovreban will also be included, there will be entirely different societal perspectives that relate to the investment that needs to be made to bring the Gjøvik track up to a time quality level. It has an independent value if we can work systematically from a long-term goal, where the connection between the Dovrebahn and the Gjøvikbahn lies as part of the total planning you have to do in relation to the routes, be it on the east or west side of Mjösa. These are perspectives that we will of course take with us further to the treatment of the national transport plan, where this should be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1523	In a budget marked by soberness and the need to keep the economy in order, we have once again found room to bet on transportation. Transport budgets for red and green have increased every year since 2005. Good road, rail and maritime accessibility and efficient public transport are of great importance for people's everyday lives and for competitiveness. It is important for housing and business, and I am very pleased that we continue to follow up our national transport plan. I think the representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen said it in a glittering way in his introduction today. I want to take care of the work going on to realize the Polar Circle airport. I am particularly pleased that a cross-political agreement has been reached in the comment that is in the setting. This is an important project for the whole of Helgeland, especially important because Helgeland is the only region in North Norway that lacks the flight offer provided by SAS and Norwegian with its large planes and low prices on, among other things. direct routes to Oslo. That is why it is commendable when the business community, the business locomotives of nine municipalities in Helgeland, has joined forces and, over four years, has contributed to financing the work done so far. That's plan work for more than 20 million. kr, seriously and thoroughly done by the best resources in Norway in the disciplines analysed and documented. The site is fully regulated and documented as being suitable for this purpose. The industry in the region has done so in order to achieve the same framework conditions as the other industries in Norway and Europe, because this is important to compete for competent labour, regardless of whether a driver is engaged in the metal industry, salmon farming or offshore activities. Helgeland has world-class tourist attractions, and it is important to take advantage of this. The potential is enormous, and it could be taken out by building this new airport at Mo in Rana. A more efficient provision of flights and competitive prices in relation to other destinations in Europe and Norway will no longer hinder their availability. The municipality of Nordland has consistently joined forces behind the decision to build a regional airport in Mo in Rana. Now, the state must contribute to the goal of the plan, so that we can complete a political decision-making base. And not least, the region is willing to contribute 300-400 million. kr in a project of 1.2 billion. kr. That must be a pleasure to a Minister of Finance. The most important thing, however, is that the country follows up constructively on the largest cooperation project and the split layer in Helgeland ever – notice that this is a huge project. In conclusion, like many, I am very happy to add 10 million to the rescue company's budget. kr, so you don't get any skates that, almost said, go ashore. We're very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1534	I'll mention some important investment projects in North Norway that are in the budget. First Ofot Railway: Ofot Railway is a hub for goods transport by rail from north to south, through Sweden and east–west in relation to the possibilities described, among others. in the Northern Area Communication. The need for increased transport capacity on Ofotban for the next six to eight years is formidable. There are four companies reporting increased needs. The largest, LKAB, reports that they will double the volume in the next few years. There is therefore a need for significant capacity-enhancement on the Ofot track. All crossing tracks have to be extended and in the long term double tracks on Ofotbanen have to be investigated. I hope it is done in connection with the national transport plan. I am very pleased that the budget of the United Kingdom underlines the need to implement the investment programme that is now on the table. This is absolutely necessary in order to avoid the collapse of capacity, and the Council of State must come back with a separate case to the Stortinget if you do not get a financing solution. The second is the Nordlandsbahn. The NSB has been successful in passenger transport on the Salt Pendant, on the Rognan-Fauske-Bodø route. There is a need for further capacity-enhancement on the Nordlandsbahn. In particular, the train stop on the road towards Bodø. I am pleased that the majority of the Committees underline this in their position and ask the Council of State to make rapid progress in its work on the decision-making basis for new holding positions and crossing tracks between Bodø and Fauske. So to the Polar Circle airport, which was formerly talking about. It is a very important regional project for the whole of Helgeland. A regular airfield on Helgeland will produce major positive ring-effects throughout the region, especially for business, travel, etc. A formidable job has been done by the group behind the project, supported by seven municipalities in the region. I am very pleased that the committee has found a solution where the project can be planned, including the financing solution, provided that Avinor contributes where necessary. It will provide a good basis for finalising the plans for NTP in 2013. Then I have time to talk about another important project in North Norway, and it's Hålogalandsbrua. It is important in the extension of the Ofot Railway for the transport of goods from Narvik and northwards. The project has finally come so far that it can start next year. I would just like to make it very clear that it is important that the Council of State makes a notification or a proposal as soon as possible in the spring session, so that the announced start-up can be carried out. The necessary local and regional toll guarantees decisions should now be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1547	Rarely have I agreed with the representative Hansen as I was after this post, it was a moment when I assessed whether I should drop mine. But the theme is so important, so I'm also going to underline some issues. In many parts of the country, rail constitutes a particularly important means of transport in relation to both freight and passenger transport. In my home country, Northland, there are two routes, and both have challenges in the positive sense of the word. I am pleased that the Railway Agency will soon submit a development plan for the Nordlandsbahn. The track needs extended freight capacity and should also be electrified. This would result in a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, both by reducing road transport and by releasing diesel engine emissions. As the representative Hansen was in the room, the Salt Pendant has been a success. It contributes to making Salt an efficient and wider region of work and services through the possibility of simple commuting between the largest municipalities in the region. I am therefore very pleased that the government fraction underlines the need for further development of the offer. Rapid progress in the planning and decision-making process of new holding sites and crossing tracks between Fauske and Bodø is important, so that the link between road and track can be seen in the development of reefs. Eighty-eight. The northern regions have a significant potential for value creation. This applies to both fishing and aquaculture, oil and gas, travel and other areas. Not least within the mineral industry, new opportunities are now opening up. Ofotbanen is an important link between North and South Norway and an important east-west link between Norway and Sweden. There is already pressure on the capacity on the track, and among other things. the Swedish mining company LKAB has announced a significant expansion in the coming years. Therefore, it is urgent to put an expanded capacity on the route. In this context, it is also relevant to refer to Reporting. St. 7 for 2011–2012, the Nordic regions — vision and instruments, where the government underlines that it will contribute to knowledge, to make action options visible and bring business and social actors together to discuss alternatives. If capacity needs forecasts are maintained, and there is a need for double tracks, with the costs of investment in double tracks, it will be very demanding to put this in place within the framework of the NTP. That is why I am pleased that the Committee is following up the government's signals and pointing out the need to cooperate with others to ensure the further development of Ofotban.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1566	Climate change has not been the most widely used word in this debate on transport. For SV, it is important that transport policy becomes a tool for reducing emissions. In VG today, we read that in Durban, new calculations are now being presented for temperature rise. We're aiming at a global temperature rise of six degrees, but it's an increase that will vary. ‘From now on, the increase in Norway has been around. 1.5 degrees while it has been 0.8 worldwide. We're counting on that to continue." This is what Professor and research director Eystein Jansen at the Bjerknessenter to VG says. He's tracking a temperature rise of 12 degrees in our area, and 12 degrees will be a lot more demanding to deal with than today's transportation challenges. 30 pst. Norwegian climate emissions come from transport. Transport policy must aim to reduce this. Then we have to have cars that go more on electricity or biofuels, we have to have a lot more traffic on public transport, and we have to have an efficient rail network that replaces both traffic between cities and air traffic. Over the years, SV has launched a number of proposals to achieve this, and we have said that we are willing to cooperate with everyone who will achieve this goal. In my county, Vestfold, the railway was slowly expanding. Both civil and labour party governments failed in the government budget after the government budget. But now this has changed. From Sunday on comes a new schedule that gives me, and a few thousand other commuters from Westfold, almost two weeks extra vacation. That's the effect of the reduced working time that we get with the new schedule. I would like to thank the Council of State for that, which might otherwise get more than praise – sail if I believe that SV also has a part in that win. At the same time, we know that the line Holm–Nykirke is fully operational. It's the first line built for 250 km/h. Next year, construction of the Eidanger link – double tracks, also for 250 km/h – will replace a line where bicycles actually went faster than trains. These three projects are investments for 14 billion. kr. The next step is to build double tracks from Nykirke to Barkåker, and it must happen with a new station at Bakkentegen, which will be closer to Horten, and which will serve the University of Westfold. So I want to say finally that an efficient ICE network is not going to be set up against lightning trains. It's just the railroad starvation of the past that has made you not dare to think two thoughts at once. Climate challenges demand that we do so: that we get both efficient ICE networks and lightning trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1588	There is no lack of jam on views and dreams about transportation, but it is much worse to get it done, I understand. For those of us who drive a lot abroad and experience the great roads there, like this. in Germany, which is actually financed by Norwegian loans at 1.8 pst. interest rates, and comparing them to the bad roads that make up much of the Norwegian road network, seem like we're 30 years back in time. The problem is not that the granting authorities do not know how important a well-developed road network is for business as well as for private cars, nor is it that the responsibility of the State, according to the views of the Progress Party, is to take care of the roads. The debate has highlighted the need for a change of systems for the long-term development of roads and roads. I would like to mention one example of poor craftsmanship of a total accumulation, with an honest exception to the Progress Party, which is precisely ensuring the complete development of road and rail in its budget, and in which it is also made clear that it is a state responsibility to finance this. When the politicians in North Rogaland decided counter-productively to apply to the Stortinget to finance road improvement through the Haugaland package, it was the state road body's analysis of the route to say yes to toll financing. The analysis contained new, important and sensible bypasses that would relieve congestion with high traffic and many vulnerable road users. The municipalities, the county council and the state road network agreed on the extension. So the countyman came and got into the smallest detail and raised objections to just what was most important in the project. The fact that the majority of the population made their urgent decision and said yes to the Haugaland package without adopting any progress plan for the projects has led to poor progress in the development and objections that put an end to the implementation of projects. The drivers pay large sums without getting anything special again, and several municipal politicians now feel led behind the lights when they said yes to the Haugalands package. There is too much to hope for the end of pushing municipalities to adopt toll financing for road development. But I expect that if future decisions on tolls are taken, the majority will be satisfied that there are concrete, real expansions, where one has control that the money goes to agreed development, which can be implemented as soon as possible after it is agreed, so that both users and local politicians get something left to impose on the drivers the extra tax that tolls are. Otherwise, I'm going to register that representatives from the big parties are talking about a hundred-year planning. With the pace of the day in progress, I am afraid that the plans have expired long before the planning period is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1603	No, de Ruiter, we don't talk Norway down to the Right, even though their party secretaries have equipped you with that script. But we're talking the government against, and that's part of our job as opposition politicians here at Stortinget. That's not why I took the floor. It was to talk a little bit about the good man from Hjelmeland, State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa. She's concerned that I must be happier. I simply have to be more satisfied – especially with her – and express it. Without that being particularly interesting in this context, I'm actually a pretty happy boy, as Bjørnson said, and usually not so hard to satisfy in that way. But since the government and the Council of State lack recognition, she will receive it, because in an interview quite recently, Meltveit Kleppa says: New funding, new organisation, new grips must take place if we are to manage to get a modern railway in this country – but not before two years, not before NTP. The centre party has probably been a driver for this long, for just the same thing said Navarsete when she was minister: wait for the NTP, it will come there. She had the support of the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency, TØI, NHO, etc. But it didn't work out. This time it will be exciting to see if the Melting Party Kleppa has greater weight into the red-green government than the Navarsete had. I'm optimistic. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa is on. - But now it's got to be that far boasting. I have to comment on two issues: OPS is on its way back in Europe, is said by several of the speakers. It's not! I know a little bit about this. I participate in this work in Europe. There has never been any more, and there is actually so much that the Commission is working out a new directive on this. It will also come to Norway sooner or later. The fact that Labour-steered England has run the economy in the ditch over the years can hardly be blamed for a few OPS projects. I also notice that several representatives from the government parties are drawing up the Riksrevision report on operating contracts. Have they read the reports? Not one place in this report says that there are other tasks that are now being carried out. Restore the department, they say. Yes, in fact, the government parties also said so in 2010. Then Meltveit Kleppa came with his budget last year and said no. It'll be exciting to see what she says next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1616	For us who live and have grown up on the coast and know a lot about the important job Save Company does every single day, it's actually a big day when we're doing business getting ten extra million to the Rescue Company. However, when we want to give more to the Rescue Company in a tight budget, it is closely linked to the maritime safety that the coast is left with for every penny we give. In addition to the 25 permanent manned rescue skates – which with their 165 added seafarers fit on the coast 24 hours a day, year-round – provide over 900 volunteers in 17 marine life corps an invaluable effort. This effort is made for one tenth of the cost of having a firm, professional crew, and is an important addition to the big, heavy rescue skates. Nor should we forget the significant preventive work being done, especially with regard to children and young people. The 42 lifeguards are mainly made of private donations. These are gifts to the people of the coast, given by shipowners, businesses and private individuals. Many of the operating resources come from donors who each month give a couple of hundreds of dollars of wages or pensions to the Rescue Company. Last December, I know that there are two hire teams on Sunnmare who have given money to the Rescue Company – money they would otherwise use for Christmas gifts for additions and business contacts. This represents SEK 650,000 – and is an important signal of the importance of the rescue company for those who travel on the coast and on the sea. I am reasonably confident that it is good economy to ensure a stable operation for the rescue skates in the future as well. We know that the Rescue Company, with its lifeguards, gathers closely along the coast, every year saves the state economy for several clean-up operations. I thought that the rescue company should be given an established first-line status in coastal preparedness in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1635	Before I go into the budget, I would like to say a few words about the balancing proposition for the current year's budget, which is also part of the issues we are dealing with. As regards the Ministry of Transport, the Progress Party has a proposal to grant 15 million. extra for traffic safety of E16. Today, the line between Tnegereid and Voss on the E16 is one of the most dangerous European roads in the country and gives rise to serious concerns. We are well aware that, within the framework of the budget for this year and the proposed budget for next year, some immediate measures are being taken. However, medium-term measures also require additional funding. So we're proposing it in the moratorium, so that these funds can be transferred to 2012. It's a technique that you also use for the means that are put in to clean up after race and flood. It's quite possible to do what the Progress Party suggests, and make sure it comes in at 15 million. extra for traffic protection on E39. So to the budget and to the representative Irene Johansen: the Progress Party is not talking Norway down; we are talking Norway up when we want to increase the power and speed of investment in modern and safe roads. It improves competitiveness. Then there was a representative from SV in the climate, and fortunately it is relatively little about it. At least let me add some sentences: the climate emissions from the transport sector are greatly overestimated, the climate emissions from trains are strongly underestimated. Today's climate description, as we have seen in the media, appears to be what it is, namely, pure-bred horror propaganda. The fact that the representative of Gullvåg is cross-tracking against the outsourcing of operating contracts is not news. He won't let himself stop and not at all by the facts. The fact that Norway spends more money than Sweden on transportation, as the representative Bjørnflaten boasts, is correct, measured at the moment. It has also been the responsibility of the Minister for Transport. It was supposed to be just missing. We're talking about a generation aftertrace. Norway has been after Sweden for decades after decades, despite the fact that we have had a wealth that the Swedes envy us more and more. It was just going to be missing that we weren't going to bet on taking back some of this. It's going too slowly, and it's going too late, and we have money for much more. What we want to achieve with the funds, asks the Minister for Transport. We're going to be able to implement and finance what we can't do with the government's plans. We can build modern and safe roads in 25 years. The government can't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1647	This has been an interesting debate, which is now going to the end. There's been a lot of talk about orbit, and that's good. However, in 2010, the Statistical Central Office writes that of the total passenger transport in Norway, road traffic was measured in passenger kilometres of 88 pst. Compared to nine out of ten trips in Norway, 5 pst. with track and 6 pst. by aircraft. When I mention this, it's because it emphasizes that in everyday life in Norway for ordinary people – those we in the Progress Party call ‘common people’ – it's the road, the bus and the car that matters. For many, there are also trains, but they are considerably fewer. This is interesting. If we imagine – the Minister for Transport often operates with a 20-year perspective – a doubling of rail traffic, not in 20 years, but in six years, and we see a conservative estimate of traffic growth in Norway on – I suggest – 1 pst., then the overall traffic growth in Norway over the six years will be so large that even if the rail system doubles the number of passengers by 2017, traffic on the roads will still increase. In other words, the need for road capacity will not go down, even if trains and tracks transport twice as many passengers already in 2017. It underlines the importance of talking about road and road capacity development in order to meet future traffic growth. In the case of high-speed trains, something was presented here a few days ago that was much mentioned in the media; I don't think it was a bird or fish. There are two high-speed strategies. One is the central European, original French model where you operate at 300-350 km/h, and then on your own stringed trails. Then the railway will be able to compete with aircraft, but not with road traffic. Or you could imagine a different strategy: 200 km/h – type of wardrobe expansion – with much more frequent stops in smaller places. Then the train will be able to compete with road traffic. I would therefore recommend the strategy of the Progress Party in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1654	There is a lot that has been said, and a lot of good that has been said, from this pulpit today. The representatives of the Workers' Party have presented our bets in a glittering way. I want to allow myself to be a little bit local in this context. In Møre and Romesdal, we have a unanimous decision from the county council to agree to the application from Nordøyvegen AS for the possibility of collecting pre-bombs on ferries to the North Islands on routes 21 and 22. Furthermore, Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal are still unanimous in their support for the use of post-war tolls as part of the financing of this route. These tolls shall only be required for vehicles. It is therefore a pleasure now to be able to approve this project as mentioned in the proposal, and to finance the project with State resources entered in the revised national budget in 2012. So father so good. What I think there is reason to point out in this case is that the members of the Progress Party in the Committee do not support the funding of tolls, i.e. against their own party locally. Here the Progress Party speaks with two tongues, which may indicate that the party centrally does not listen to its trust elected locally, or that the trustees locally do not have central support for their views, and thus not pervasive in their party. The answer is best known to the Progress Party. This is a project that in More and Romesdal there has been an agreement to get the promise over a long period of time, and I think the local politicians have made a great effort to get this in place. The local red-greens have worked well against our people in the committee and have put in place a project and funding that allows us to breathe easily and look forward to a well-repaired residential and labour market region around Ålesund that makes everyday life easier for the inhabitants of this area. So to the post of the representative Åge Starheim, who here was talking about the City Ship Tunnel. He pointed out that you know everything you need to know in order to get the City Tunnel project going, which is intended for approx. One, seven, bn. kr. The representative criticises the government not to start this tunnel development already. But if the Progress Party has all the skills it needs, it is strange that they have not already invested money in their alternative state budget, but shows that the government has to assess both one and the other funding options. Have you not already made this clear, the Progress Party? Perhaps the Progress Party and the representative Starheim see that this project is more extensive than putting two fingers on the map – one in Sales and one in Vanylven – and pressing them through the map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1663	I would like to comment on three points – for the first construction of roads in Germany. The main priorities for Norwegian transport are anchored in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The government follows NTP through a step-up of the first four-year period within a responsible economic policy and follows the rule of action for a defensive phase in the oil revenues of the Norwegian economy. Management of the State pension fund abroad is carried out within the framework of general guidelines defined by the Ministry of Finance. The management of the fund means locations outside Norway's borders and, as you know, is spread across a wide range of countries, sectors and companies. Investments in Germany have thus not been linked to how government and enlargement prioritise expenditure for different purposes within a defence-related financial framework in the State budget. Secondly, the stretch Langset–Kleverud and my slightly flaked statement about desert migration: for an impatient soul like me, it is still such that the collapse decision on high-speed limits came in spring 2009. Langset-Kleverud has been through concept-valuation, KS1. The distance selected is determined by three main ratios. This is the capacity, i.e. the ability to take distance on a network on which it is essential to increase its capacity. Building on roads is not the least – it means saving costs for the country as a whole, and it means saving costs for the local population. The third is that an eastern alternative was assessed, but it was far more expensive as a result of a higher bridge and tunnel section. So to me, the choice was like this. So starting to figure out new options will mean starting over again. This is a plant that is now ready to be started. Then I have to say: there are questions here about the number of people added to the railway station and the state road system and comparison with Sweden. First of all, there's a lot of private people who are currently doing both of these things, but in addition, it's not possible to compare the number of added directly. Here is a follow-up in maintenance, in renewal and investment, which means historical promises. [[President clubs]] It must also mean the addition of historical numbers...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1680	I have to thank the Council of State for the answer, and we will certainly come back to Mjösa's width and railway in a week. Then I want to say that the Council of State said that she thought this assembly should be a little happy away from the Council of State – not the government, but the Council of State, and not the people either, but the Council of State. I think that for most people and business that's why we're here, and that's what the mandate is. I hear the Council of State says that she's happy that you're lying where you're going to be, but it's more than 2 billion. kr by national transport plan. It's more than half below what was the ambition level of Oslo-Ski, who was supposed to be the flagship of the government, and now has 1 billion. kr less to walk with in the case of planning. To the representatives Freddy de Ruiter and Irene Johansen: they have been given a script that says that everyone who is opposed and everyone who has a different solution – others who would find other ways to get more out of the money and build more roads, build more tracks, get more rails and get better logistics between all areas of transport – talking infrastructure and transportation down. It manages the government with its rose painting excellent on its own, for there is a great difference between what is said, what is experienced, and what is of aftertaste. I want to mention that I am very happy that the rescue company gets 10 million. Extra kroner. But they've asked for 30. The tens of millions that government parties have found have taken from the Coast. That is, the coast is losing, and the government is once again basing its safety on volunteering along the coast. I remind you that it is the government that is responsible for safety along the coast. To the representative of Bjørnflaten, who is concerned that all other countries around us no longer use OPS – that is what has ended in Sweden, among other things. and a number of other countries — and the fact that we, who are then on the right, want only tax cuts, etc., is a reason to remember that tax cuts are modern policies. It is more modern than the repeated and exhausted rhetoric of the Workers' Party. The citizens of Sweden cut taxes, and the result has been that they have gained economic growth, and so on can increase wealth. I want to mention the capacity of the Eastfold Railway in particular. It is now detonated, and measures to improve punctuality and capacity are absolutely necessary. Both eastern and western lines face this challenge — and western lines link Norway with the rest of Europe. I particularly want to point out that there are no plans for the challenge in the Sandbukta-Moss-Kleberg area, despite the fact that the county council and Moss municipality have raised 25 million. available as planning materials that the government could have used – and filled with some of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1699	Gale is it when there's not enough money for the Rescue Company, and crazy is the jam when a man manages to find more money for the Rescue Company. If you want to find money to prioritize something, you have to take it from one place. Both the representative Vogskesen and now, at the latest, the representative Schou were involved in this. Let me just say first that it's not 10 million. kr a has taken from a chapter of the Coastal Agency's budget. That's five million, for five million. kr came from this house. So actually, the committee has made a good deal. They come from port development, which has been much more spacious than it was budgeted for. If they were just going to go away, they'd be a little skeptical. They're now being used for this. I must also mention that in my draft budget, the Right proposes to cut 13 million. kr is operating for the Coastal Works, so I can't quite see that this should be so very crazy. We get a great deal for this with the Rescue Company, and we have great faith in the important role of the Rescue Company in the future. What Secretary-General Stene assures me is that these ten million will go to secure operational operations, in the first round of the rescue skates on Skjervøy and in Egersund. As several of our representatives have been involved, we in the Workers' Party are happy in the Rescue Company. We have great faith in it. In fact, in the Workers' Party's largest group, we have so much confidence in the Rescue Company's competence that we have hired them as our hope provider of maritime safety services. I guess it's not good and right to stand in this room and refer from a party's group meeting, but I'll do it anyway. Even worse, it is well when I now refer from a group meeting that we have not yet had – we are going to have it by now. 18 if we're done until then. There I and another of the coastal apostles, the representative Else-May Botten, are going to launch a scheme and invite our big group to join in. We call it SFO – the big group’s leisure arrangements. The rescue company will come and take a course for us in the new year. We're going to take a boat driver's test. It's all supposed to end with us going to Stavern. Then they're going to push us to the sea, and then we're going to fear each other and learn to trust another person. We have great faith in the Rescue Company, and we have not taken the money from anything very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1714	The President just wants to wish him luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1717	I took the time to look a little bit closer at the last railway level, which lasted from 1994 to 1997, and was treated in the Stortinget in 1993. There were lots of posts, great notes and celebrations on running tapes from most of the parties. There was no way of a historical effort that would now be launched in the railway sector. The Johan Nyland Labour Party was the rapporteur of the case. He was absolutely in a state of joy and exuberant, among other things. that the start of a new era for the development of rail in this country was now underpinned. 18 years after the celebrations, the director of the railway company Elisabeth Enger was outside and said that a breakdown on the railway was imminent. The reason why I'm dealing with this is to show you how many parties you heard about the railway before, and what the results show. Today we need 230 km of double tracks to get the most trafficked routes on rails – literally. It was investigated, and it was investigated, and what is now concentrating on talking the most about and working the most for is something as utopian as a lightning train across the country, while there is a screaming lack of the routes where people today are waiting for the train, or they get on the train, but they have to cling tight, in close contact with their fellow passengers – perhaps a bit too close for individuals. I believe that one must now start using their cancers on the most important first. To put it that way: I think it is more important to get on the roads, the health services, the care of the elderly and the school sector — there is a long list of measures — before you should at all talk about lightning trains. It's time to spend the big money on realistic and concrete projects that benefit the population. It has become a feature of this government that they are promoting their own local politicians. In Oslo, under the leadership of the Progress Party, we had an increase of 50,000 travellers in public transport, an increase of over 30 pst. The ‘reward’ of the red-green government is that a person receives at least the money in the reward scheme. The red-green politicians boast of a road development financed by the drivers. For those who run the Oslo–Kristiansand route, soon Oslo–Hamar or Oslo–Svinesund, there is a bomb after a bomb. The Progress Party and I believe that we must now start investing in our own country instead of for example. to lend 61 billion. kr to Germany – they get free money to spend on the road – or invest in property in London, Paris and elsewhere. Now it's time to build this country at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1734	It has become the government's mandate in this year's budgetary procedure to defend its tight budget by referring to the economic situation in Greece, Spain and England. It is de facto not the Progress Party, or Right, that talks Norway down. This government is doing well itself – not least by comparing Norway with other former social-democratic governments, such as Greece, Spain and England, which have caused major economic problems in their own country. There is no news that socialists and social democrats have run out of other people's money. There's nothing new about it. But what's new is that today's government finally realizes that we live in a globalized world. With respect to reporting, most of us, who are not socialists, have realized this a long time ago. It is fundamental in all trade and market thinking. At the same time as warning of the economic situation in Greece and Spain, we find that Norway has borrowed 61 billion. kr to Germany – to 1,8 pst. interest — such as, inter alia: goes to build autostradas. In Norway, the level of interest rates is several times higher. In other words, we are making arrangements to promote the comparative advantage of other countries, while at the same time building up our own. And that is tiring in a country that has such a long-range geography as we have, where it should in principle be an indispensable requirement that we have an efficient and safe transport. So if you transfer what this means, into practical politics, this government is perfectly capable of talking Norway down on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1746	Since the representative Listhaug mentioned our former railway political spokesman, Blessed Johan Nyland, I must say that he went to the degrees in the role of railway spokesman that he still referred to himself and us as ‘we in the NSB’. I'm not going to walk him all the way into the industry, but I'm very pleased with the government's commitment to the Westfold Railway. The opening of the double track between Barkåker and Tønsberg on 19 November is the first phase of a transport revolution in our part of the country. The railway billions literally roll over our state. The extension of the double-track line Holm–Nykirke is in full swing. The Eidanger-parsellen work will start next year, as will the Larvik-Porsgrund section. I take it for granted, although it's not formally decided yet, that double tracks are built on this route. In parallel with this, E18 is now being built into four fields throughout the county – at record speed, I would almost say – and it is important that we now get a continuous four-field route from Oslo to Grenland. But it has a price, and the drivers have to pay their share of the bill. After significant cost increases, preliminary estimates show that it will cost NOK 106 to drive the few miles from Gulli to Langangen. The state as a weigher reduces its cost from 37 to 27 pst. of the project. But what's worse is, the consequence of such a high toll ratio is that traffic is largely looking for other roads, i.e. adjacent road networks. The state’s estimates show that the rejection effect is so high that traffic-restrictive measures must either be put in place on this road network or simply tolls are introduced on adjacent roads, as in Sande. The difference from the previous is, however, that it is no longer the state that has road responsibility for the adjacent road network, but the county municipality, and the county municipality has more than enough of its own road responsibility, if it is not also to contribute to the financing of the state's roads. I would therefore like to give the Minister of Transport the good advice to seek a solution to this financing problem in good understanding with the Westfold County Municipality. It should be within reach by extending the tolling period to 20 years, lowering the calculation rate and/or increasing the country’s contribution. So finally, to the representative Sortevik: it is right that I run a crusade against the kind of competitive outsourcing of the bourgeois parties. I want the private contractors to have more competition – from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1759	I have a sense of chaos – for limited periods. It's a sign of creativity, of commitment and of many wanting something to happen. Today I have received a ‘chaos cancellation’ from a local government representative in Lillehammer regarding the main road–railway situation in the Lillehammer area, and this is the last of a number of similar messages I have received in the last few weeks. This is due to a bit of the following situation: On 29 November we got a lot of railway investigations, among other things. three different routes for the railway between Oslo and Trondheim – or what is called on the railway network’s website, ‘from Oslo’ ‘to Trondheim’, but I assume that trains are supposed to go both ways. One option is to correct the existing scheme, and then there are two high-speed options – in line with the majority opinion of the Committee. This is exciting, it's undecided, but it's done well enough for us all to take up the discussion at a higher and more knowledge-based level. It was November 29th. On 1 December, the Lillehammer Business Forum organised a thematic meeting with the following questions: Do we want the four-field motorway and two-track railway to Lillehammer? Surprisingly, the answer was yes! But that wasn't my point here. The point is that the representative from Vegvesenet went out quite clearly and said that the high-speed rail is a derailment – either at InterCity, think Lillehammer, not a nation, not take part in the big national debate. So, at the municipal planning committee meeting last night, representatives of the same Vegvesenet were present and were going to discuss E6 issues, among others. E6 on the west side of Mjösa – i.e. on a route determined as one of the options for high-speed trains. The four-page dossier does not mention railway with a word. When the discussion starts, for example: with questions to representatives of the Road Administration, they say clearly: No, the railway has not been notified to us that we should take no account of it. Then there's confusion here. As I said, I have a sense of chaos. But I think that's going to be the way. We have exciting debates on both rail and road, and we all want this to be seen in the context, but it seems to be out in practice – down there, among others. the local reality – this appears to be very little coordinated as of today. For me, this is once again in many ways a cry that we should have a common transport service, or a common transport service, here to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1769	First, I think it's pretty sweet when the Workers' Party's representative from Aust-Agder says that the budget for the Progress Party is monopoly money, when he can talk about spending 500 billion in the next round and very seriously. kr to lightning train. So let's go. Maybe the same representative has slept an hour, because the Progress Party believes we don't have to borrow money. It's very expensive. That's why we're repeatedly proposing to use state resources to build roads. To our great joy we have received full support for it by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. He has repeatedly said that we do not need to buy the way on payment, we have money on the book. Then we'll just wait for the appropriations. However, if you are going to use tolls, OPS with tolls and construction of other toll roads is about as expensive – but the organisation with OPS is probably better. It's the same thing as we call these paths, only they're being built. That's what we say in the Progress Party. Therefore, I hope that the Ruiters listen well – and I am very pleased that the Prime Minister agrees with the Progress Party. Oil money builds a road, we don't have to borrow the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1778	First, I'm going to answer to Langeland, who didn't understand what I said. I said I want trains that go fast, but it doesn't have to be called high-speed trains. It sounds like this government has brought another 20 million. kr to cycle paths. That is not the reality. It has been taken from other national road investments, item 30. So you take money from the road and you move it to other areas. This means that the drivers have to pay more tolls with this government, and get less money back to invest in roads. That is the reality. I think it's pretty cute when you stand here and talk about giving 10 million. kr more to the Rescue Company. Yes, you have done so on one side – on the other hand, you have taken 8.7 million from the Rescue Company. kr that the rescue company has received in appropriations from Norwegian Typing. This means, in fact, that there is almost no extra one has added to the Rescue Company, compared to a cut of 8.7 million. kr. I think it's very good that you're at least fair in terms of the numbers you're going into this room, and what are the actual conditions. These are the facts on these two points. I am pleased that the representative Bratli is honest that the Workers' Party will punish the drivers, and that it is the only solution from the Workers' Party to do something about the road safety challenges. At least it seems that distance-ATK is a really good solution. But I also think you should be honest about what is in the report from the State Road Administration, because it says that it assumes that there must be at least four years in operation before we can say whether it has that effect or not. That is the reality. I think you should be honest about that. Emergency Network: There is disagreement about what happened in 2004, and I record that the representative Sønsterud and I disagree on this with net neutrality. But what I'm very busy about at least is making sure that there isn't a running cost increase for all the municipal agencies and state agencies that are going to use the emergency network. Everyone agrees that it is important to set up a new emergency network, but we have to look at how to finance it. There's definitely something to do when you see what kind of cost it's brought about for some others. I registered that the representative Henriksen from West Agder was standing on this platform and said that one had to go to the city council in Kristiansand, which would not impose a rush time charge. Yes – it's just a confirmation of what I said in the line change with the council. We have now received a State Council that first says – and has said many times in this Chamber – that she wants local initiative. But in reality – when the local initiative says something the Council of State does not want – she says that we will take the money from you that we were to grant. I think it's state extortion and nothing else. And I think it's sad, because that means you don't want to listen to the clear and clear signals that people don't want more tolls, they don't want more rush time tax, they don't want more fuel tax, they actually want the state to take its responsibility and build roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1793	To be honest, I think the assembly should take on board the Minister of Transport's words about enjoying themselves a little more. When I hear the debate now, I get the feeling that it is just like «when darkness now has lowered the sea». It can't possibly be that wrong. But is it perhaps that now that the level of investment is escalating and the opposition sees that we're delivering what we're saying, has the beep got a slightly different sound? It is no longer the same hunt for more money – yes, with the exception of the Advance Party, which is in a different division when it comes to having money. But instead, the focus has been on so-called modern solutions. New types of companies are mantra. Well, I would like to discuss the organisation of the transport sector, but have the solutions to the Bondevik II parties and the Progress Party been so successful? The operating contracts that came after the maintenance department of the State Road Administration became Mesta led to a formidable increase in road maintenance prices. The handles that were taken in relation to the Railway Works, make us still struggling with too little signalling competence in the case of the railway. OPS must clearly solve everything in the transport sector. Is there something we have learned from, among others. England in the long country, it's just that it hasn't solved all the challenges, it's given them a lot of new challenges. Then there are some good elements in the OPS model that we're going to look at, and there are expansion contracts – that's what I'm going to be on. But it's not these solutions that the red-greens think it makes sense to shiver to. What I particularly note in the budgetary remarks to those who say that they want to liberate the most, is that they have the greatest need for detailed governance. How does this relate? Port expansions were cheaper, and they're still in such a category that there's no problem if we take $5 million. kr and transfer to the Rescue Company. That's what's the reason you've been using them. No, it is short and easy to endure, to ensure more efficient planning processes and to follow up on the appropriations for maintenance and investment. This results from – new roads, better railways, more good fishing ports and fairways, all of this for the benefit of business and ordinary people’s travel to and from work and to joy for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1810	The fact that one’s statements were characterised as sweet – or ‘sweet’ – by the Advance Party, I get to take as a compliment. I wonder, when the representative Vosskensen claims that the Advance Party is to finance the way in cash, why the Advance Party is then on the OPS comments and has more and more written with the Right and Christian People's Party in the case of OPS. Then the representative Hoksrud became very dramatic, and when the Hoksrud and the Advance Party become dramatic, they criticize everyone else, and then they magic out the money. In the case of the Rescue Company, and in the case of other proposals for which we have found room for funding, there is something called containment, and that is what is called income page and expenditure page, and the two should balance. But I think that the Hoksrud and the Advance Party are superfluous when they bring in Norwegian Typing and cut into Norwegian Typing. Is there one party that will remove the gambling monopoly, that will remove Norwegian Typing and the income it gives to voluntary teams and organisations, sports, etc. Here in the country, it's the Progress Party. I dare not think about what it would mean for the volunteering in Norway if the policy of the Spring Party were to become effective. It would be a disaster. So to Halleraker, who claims to puke, puke, there were apparently a few OPS projects in the United Kingdom that Labour had left to the conservatives. I don't think there were very few, because we've checked out 900 projects, 100 billion. kr every year, including 103 hospitals built on OPS. It's not small things. In fact, it puts the United Kingdom economy in a very difficult situation. That's what we see across Europe, and a little bit of the reason why this is about creative accounting, because by introducing OPS, it doesn't go into the usual debt accounts. I hope that the EU does something about that, to go into OPS is also to get the state a huge debt burden, and that puts the economy at risk. So today, OPS is much more expensive, on average 24 pst. more expensive. Then I have to ask the Right Party and the Advance Party, and to some extent the Christian People's Party: is it your ideology that makes you only have to have OPS?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1825	On the contrary, all speeches should be addressed to the President. Ingerd Schou has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1830	To the representative, Rommetveit, I would like to say that we grant the rescue company what they are asking for. We cut the Coast Guard because we want to coordinate the security levels and launch the fireworks and brand maintenance. In the Bondevik II government, the Cooperative Government, we showed that we were able to make both reasonable and well-considered adjustments in the Coastal Agency. I can absolutely recommend the government parties that modernising, thinking new and postponing competition have its effect. I still record that it is the coast that is totally losing, because you take some money from Norwegian Typing, you take some money from the Coastal Works, and you give 10 million. kr to the rescue company. Safety at sea is still the responsibility of the government, and government parties base this security on voluntary activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1835	I just jumped to get here to the debate from a meeting of the Special Committee of 22 July and thought that this actually reflects the great excitement of what we are working on at Stortinget. I was so lucky that I received the transport and communication committee for two years in the previous period, and what has struck me from then on is the great glow that exists among all those who work for different types of projects and asphalting on their roads all around the country. The road to the better road goes, I think, through the red-green government. We've already shown that, we're following up the NTP frameworks, not least we're putting forward new and offensive frames that we're following up on. When I allowed myself to boast a little bit, it's not just because the government basically wants to bring out the outstanding in its own politics anyway – there's something changing governments want – it's also because the state road authority clearly says that there are historically high stakes we deliver. They're happy with the promises they get, and they think it's offensive. One has to take it with me, and I hope that the opposition will take it with me. When people flag when there's asphalt on their roads, it's because it's important to people. Jørgen Amdam also had a reference to why it can be important for people in the districts with new communications and the linking of communities and municipalities. He mentioned it so that it becomes a larger market for use. Then he wasn't thinking about goods, he was thinking about partners and girlfriends. There might actually be a point in that. There are simply more people who can be met more often when there are closer communications. It's easy for us from More and Romesdal to stand and say hello. I'm not going to do that, except to say that for my part, I come from a state that needs so much good and free connection over the fjords, I'm very happy for the bet that the government shows that we want to move on. The last thing I want to mention, which I want to say is just as an ambition, is the ferry-free coastal route, where I think we have to work on an interest-free loan scheme, so let the county get big investments. I mean, I want to be able to make big projects possible on the highways, where there are already tolls forever, at ferry tickets. I think it might be a good arrangement, which at least I want to launch here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1852	The representative Hoksrud, who has unfortunately left the hall, was busy being honest. In fact, I expect the representative of Hoksrud to go ahead with a good example. He said in his article that the government cuts $8.7 million. kr to the rescue company. Until he explains where the cut comes from, at least my definition of the term ‘fair’ will not be fulfilled. In order to compensate for the loss of income from the former slot machine business of the company, the Rescue Company receives 21,5 pst. of set-aside amounts from the profits to Norsk Tipping. What that amount will amount to in 2011 is too early to say. I don't have a good overview of how much people are tipping for, but it's said that now there's a gold pot in some sort of lottery, so now it's getting really tickled. In any case, in 2009 the rescue company received 132 million. NOK 133 million in 2010. kr. Then we'll soon get the phase for 2011. To the representative of Schou, the fact that it is actually possible to collect money from the Coastal Works budget to the Rescue Company is precisely because competition in the market is functioning. The coastal works use the competition that exists, so that fishing ports and fairways have become cheaper than budgeted. Ergo doesn't go out on anyone along the coast that we're picking up $5 million. kr on that budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1861	There are several representatives, including: Steinar Gullvåg and Janne Shelmo Nordås, who have commented that the price of maintenance has increased. The National Auditor has also pointed that out. I would like to nuance the debate by saying that until October this year, 24 operating contracts have been set aside in total. On average, there have been 4.2 providers per contract. This testifies to the fact that we are now getting a more mature market. I also believe that the changes made by the State Road Service in 2010 will in the long term have a positive impact on the very competitive situation. In terms of price, price increases must also be seen in the light of changes in the form of increased demands on contractors. It also shows an evaluation prepared by the Dovre Group in 2010. It says: ‘However, the increase in costs over the period before 2003 can be explained by the scale of contracts and the increasing complexity of tasks’.» The evaluation, carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, shows that the requirements for quality systems, plans and reporting have become significantly stronger. In addition, the tasks that a person would like to perform are more specified in today’s operating contracts than in the previous one, especially in the years 2003–08. I also want to comment on Susanne Bratli's articles. She says that in a tight budget, even when we have a financial crisis, we are doing our job of giving priority to transport. Firstly, the Ministry of Finance does not say that this is a tight budget. They say it's a neutral budget. And when we look at the historical developments in budgetary commitments for transport, it was precisely the financial crisis that led to increased promises. It was because of the financial crisis that we managed to get extra promises – especially on the railways, but also on the road. It shows that it is important to have a nuance in this debate as well. Then, in return, I can join every comma in what Susanne Bratli said about road safety work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1875	To the OPS debate: I will not repeat myself or give more examples that this is expensive and not very smart, now, but just mention that former Governor Svein Gedrem has stated the following: ‘The rescue packages after the financial crisis in the autumn of 2008 revealed a serious failure in the management of central government finances in several developed countries. Private debt was pledged to European and North America central banks and states. As banks, countries had also out-of-balance-sheet expenditure, inter alia, through what is called public private cooperation in this country.» For the debate on reorganisations, state enterprises and outsourcing: it is strange that the opposition still believes that this is the solution to most of the problems. No matter how much you twist and twist about it, you can't get away from the National Audit Office's report last week on cost increases in the area of operation and maintenance and poor contracts in the road sector. But the opposition, now the last representative Hareide, is going on and telling us about the belief that the separation of businesses from central government and the outsourcing of competition is what it takes to achieve maximum efficiency, and that we will thus get more money back, and that economic measurement parameters and business-economy principles run businesses more efficiently and efficiently than the management does. All enterprises, private as public, must be constantly engaged in being effective and not least at all times have the skills necessary to perform the tasks assigned to them. The nature of the business relationship is not only technical, it is also policy. Procurement policy, ordering and execution functions and internal invoicing systems mean more control and supervision, which in turn means more bureaucratic follow-up, or in clear terms: increased bureaucracy. Avinor has been cited as an example of a state-owned company that finances loans for investments. But these are fundamentally different from investments, for example. on track, because they are covered by user funding in future revenues from, inter alia, Aerodrome charges — not through budget appropriations. The potential for rail user financing is much more limited. Investments must mainly be financed by State resources. In addition, we do not want to transfer power over road and rail construction from politicians to a company. In addition, we must bear in mind that the more money is moved out of the budget, the more difficult it is to use the budget in the event of fluctuations in the economy. Therefore, we believe that today's system is the best for the security and long-term in the Norwegian economy. I have to take a little walk into the Progress Party's comment on equality – the same as last year. They say, ‘It is offensive for a woman to know that when she is to have a place in a government, it is sex that matters most, and not competence and suitability.’ If the reality description of the Progress Party is correct, wonder how many men over the years should have felt wrong for the same reason!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1900	I asked for the floor on the reward scheme for public transport, but first a little clarification of a misunderstanding: an earlier speaker today was injured to say that the increase in the use of public transport in Oslo from 2003 to 2010 was 50,000 passengers. So that's wrong. There are 50 million passengers, of course! Not to boast, but it is from 2003 with 158 million passengers transported by 2010 with 208 million passengers transported an increase of 31.2 pst. That is what I am thinking: this must really affect the reward scheme for public transport! But no. Of the State subsidy, as referred to in the adjustment on page 25, Oslo receives 60 million. NOK of that scheme. That's approximately equal to that. 0.4 pst. by the budget for public transport in Oslo. Trondheim gets double. If you calculate per capita, Oslo gets a 100-note bill per unit, while Trondheim, who has very modest results to show in this way, gets six times as much, $600 per capita. Now, the ambitions of Oslopackak 3 are that we're going up by another 50 million passengers transported per year, an increase of 25 pst. in relation to current traffic. It's a goal that we from Oslo's side intend to achieve, but we'll do it without red-green assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1910	Sometimes I want representatives sitting in the Chamber listening to a debate to hear what is actually being said, and not what they want to say. Or it's like that, for example. The representative Bård Hoksrud has selective hearing. Although it is that the Progress Party of the Boring repeats that it is the roads that kill, and are selective in their use of professional coatings, it does not get more correct for that reason. That's the speed that kills on the roads. It's the stuff that kills on the roads. There is a lack of safety belt use that kills on the roads. In very few cases, fatal accidents are due to roads. The roads can be built more forgivingly, and we are for that, and I said that in my post. But I also said that road safety work is about seeing the road, the vehicle and the road users in a context. I said we're on the road. I said we're following up the National Transport Plan. We're betting on road safety measures. We follow up the construction of the middle parts and the middle measures, but we assume that the road users will follow the law. That's why we're for checks, we're for automatic traffic control, and we're for distance-ATK – for distance-ATK works. The evaluation by the State Road Administration shows that at E6, the Dovre Forest, for example, speed has been reduced by 9 km per hour, and it can be directly translated as reducing the risk of fatal accidents by 35 pst. We have to be able to say that our approach to road safety actually works. The number of people killed on Norwegian roads is on their way down. We're now better than Sweden, if there's going to be any goal to be there in this context. It seems that we disagree on the concept of freedom. It seems that the Progress Party believes that we should have the freedom to behave as we wish in the traffic. For us, freedom is security – security for all of us to feel safe and secure when we're out walking. The foreground and right will privatise the driving tests. We don't want to. The foreground part and the right part will wind down the distance ATK. We don't want to. The progress and the right will increase the speed of the motorways. Neither will we. The propulsion part will remove double dot load for young drivers. We don't want to. The progress will be faster on mopeds. Neither will we. This would not be positive for road safety. That's because from the zero vision, the desire for a future without killing and hard damage in traffic, we have no one to lose. Then we have to apply all the measures. In this respect, it is important to focus on road-side measures, to focus on measures in relation to the driver, to focus on measures in relation to the vehicle, and control is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1925	Few things are as nice as Norway in sunshine. In the summer when I drove from Oslo and back to Sunnmøre, I drove in the sun all day except when I swung into the Strynfjell tunnel, where it strips. It's kind of fun to hear today's debate and the praise of the work you do out there. It was said from this chair today that the Progress Party does not take its local politicians seriously when one does not want to finance the North Island Road toll, but is funding it stately. I can promise that both workers' party representatives and progress party representatives on Sunnmøre and in whole More and Romesdal will cheer if there is state funding for Nordøyvegen. In fact, current statesmen in More and Romesdal, Jon Aasen of the Workers' Party, have said that he rarely gives in to state extortion, but he does it in the transport sector when we accept tolls in More and Romesdal. The leaders of the Central Party have been out in the past this year, saying that a major structural effort is needed to ensure a better and faster movement rate in this country. There is not much to remember when you hear the representatives of the Central Party in the hall today. So the Central Party's representatives in the Storting are basically very satisfied with the government's work, even though they're completely different in the way we do things. This shows that double morality is also a form of morality. I think it is important to continue to bet on transportation. At Sunnmøre we see it all the time. Our business lives on a social basis, and it is not to be expected that industry, too, is discouraged by the fact that the state does not finance any more, partly accepts toll financing. The problem today is that there will soon be no partial funding; it is full funding. Governments have chosen to place E39 on the Kvivsveg track. There's a bunch of puddles behind it. There, the Central Party Councils chose to remove the toll financing that was decided because the traffic base was too low. The current central party council has confirmed that they would rather lay the toll entry in the middle of the centre of one of the municipalities on the line. This shows that toll financing is primarily a means of contributing to the growth of income into the state register — more than real policies to bring about new pathways. Norway needs a commitment to trade. It's just a shame that then we have to change government first.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1938	Øyvind Halleraker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1941	Just a comment on the reality description of Freddy de Ruiter who couldn't stand out. About 900 OPS project in England and that 100 billion would overthrow England’s economy, a country with an annual government budget of 6 700 billion. So on a Norwegian scale, it's 15 billion. We're talking about here. So compared, the red-greens have contributed to a toll debt in this country that is approaching 20 billion. kr. Well, that's definitely another problem. But the money in England has gone to hospitals and schools and actually little by little. The option would be debt financing in the public sector. By comparison, Norwegian municipalities and companies have a loan portfolio of 230 billion. kr the last time I checked. My prognosis is that the Ruiters are going to lose this fight internally by the red-greens. Then we'll see how it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1950	Bård Hoksrud has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1953	First to the representative Bratli who says we're on our way. We're going to build 11 miles of highway and 17 miles of middle to next year, so we're going to be 2 billion. kr after in the case of carriage. Sweden has 4 000 km of non-convenient road and almost 2000 km of motorway. They have far fewer accidents than what we have in Norway. So at least it shows that it works. Then I record that the Minister for Fisheries felt that I was dishonest in what I was talking about here and wanted me to document it. This is the hearing response from the Rescue Company, and I assume that it is right when the Rescue Company submits a hearing response in the Committee. They print out correctly: ‘The Norwegian Tipping grant is reduced by SEK 8.7 million to SEK 123.8 million and the increase in VAT compensation was not continued as promised.’ This has led to $8.7 million. kr less to the Rescue Company. I expect the Council of State has also got this. But it may be that she has not liked to read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1965	The President has doubts as to whether ‘not giddened’ is a parliamentary expression. The next speaker is the representative of Torgeir Tjäldal and then – no, Dagrun Eriksen and then Torgeir Tjäldal. I'm not gonna skip Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1970	The representative appreciates that. Many have spoken during the day — at least from the government parties — about following up on NTP, the national transport plan. The problem for us in the South is that it was not a very pleasant reading for us. In order not to get there, in the next national transport plan, we're being eaten with seven lines divided into the two major southern states, I just want to remind you of some of the routes that it's important that we get in place. This concerns E39 Sägne–Ålgård – there we need a repair, four-field highway that allows us to get the link to Stavanger in place again. At Lindesnes there are some small cops that we could now get in place, and that would have saved us cheap money and not moved on money. That's what we remember. We remember what's left on the E18, on the east side, and the representatives Freddy de Ruiter and Inbjørg Vogssken from Aust-Agder are also satisfied that we have the entire southern project inside. I also remember Rv. 9 up the Seatesdal. If we get that anchored in place, we'll make southerly landings happy. But with the growth we have, the traffic growth and the safety aspect we have, we need more than seven lines in the next national transport plan. Then I want to talk about trains – the Southern Railway. It reminds me of one thing. In 2008 the members of the Finance Committee of the Government of the Parties decided to ‘strengthen railway investment with: [[...]] I just want to finish this day by reminding you that we are waiting for the sleeping car to be in place on the Sørlandsbanen. We're not at the station waiting, we're standing there in the middle of the night in the cold waiting for a train from Stavanger to take us to Oslo. We stand up in the middle of the night and go off at the Kristiansand station, freeze, and come home in the middle of the night. I hope the government will soon take the representative emeritus Rolf Terje Klungland's big case up again and get the sleeping car to Kristiansand. Then we'll smile a little bit more when we get into the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e1983	In the debate here today, there has been a very important issue of transport that needs to be addressed in the whole country. I want to focus a little bit on what's happening up north, with Ofotbanen, from Kiruna to Narvik. There's an extreme increase in everything. For the first time in Swedish history, in some municipalities up in Lapland, northern Sweden has an increase in the population, from moved houses to now having to set up brick-and-mortars to accommodate workers. Here comes some of the problem with Ofotbanen. Today, 18 million tons of ore are being shipped over Narvik port. This facilitates an increase, for example: with two new companies, Northland Resources and Scandinavian Research, which have wanted to ship iron ore over the port. In addition, other minerals, such as copper and other, are waiting to be shipped out. The problem here is that the path is so full. There have been 18 million tonnes this year, and if you do this, you're going to increase to 33 million tonnes in 2015 and by 2020 to 53 million tonnes. It is extremely large, and it will be Norway's largest port in terms of tonnage today. It's also going to be Norway's largest port of calls, and it's going to go past Oslo and all of them, if this goes into place. In fact, if this is to succeed, the Norwegian government has something important here. It is to grant the money that is needed to build up. We're talking about double-tracking for about 400 million. kr by 2015, and then it is approx. 4 B.C.E. kr that must be available if you are to have double tracks all the way. You talk about 42 km with tracks, while on the other hand – in Sweden – you talk about 13-14 km. I have raised this question with the Swedish Minister of the Nordic Council, who can tell you that for Sweden this is not a problem. They have granted an infrastructure fund in Sweden for 497 billion. kr. So they have money to start. Other parties in this big business have also suggested the same thing, but then they're called unprofessional. So Sweden can afford to spend money building infrastructure, but we don't have it. We don't have time to wait for a national transport plan, because then this is over, and then Sweden, as the minister says, will find other ways to take out the goods. It can go over Finland and elsewhere. We want to lose Norwegian jobs, and that will make things worse in border areas, with border barriers. I ask that the government now grant money, and I hope that the comments of the Progress Party can be supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2000	Freddy de Ruiter has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2003	Our appropriations are comparable to nearly all countries, including Sweden. Now it is cut over a low shoe in most countries, while we maintain and strengthen the allocation in most areas. Then to the representative Halleraker. 100 B.C.E. kr of the year – it’s nothing, it’s certainly just small money! Which is equal to 15 billion. kr a year, is nothing either, it's just almost half a budget for transportation! It's strange that even the conservatives in England just stop OPS immediately and say that this costs too much money. Perhaps one should also say that to the students in the United Kingdom, who demonstrate, who get their three- and four-fold tuition fee. I notice that 100 billion. kr this year is nothing – according to Right. Otherwise I just want to say that of course I support Dagrun Eriksen's bet on E18, rv. 9, E39 and SouthWestBanen. Then we're going to hope that there's a sleeping car coming along.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2015	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2018	With the exception of the Progress Party, all the parties here in Stortinget finance the financing of road construction. It's called toll money. There's also a right hand side. The location of the ship's tunnel has been mentioned. The party of progress is impatient and will build as quickly as possible. Together with the Christian People's Party, we have our own proposal on that, proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox We're recording that the Right is not included. In the case of the submarine U-864, the party of progress is equally impatient. We want to cancel, we don't want to wait any longer. Together with the Christian People's Party, we have a proposal on this, it is proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox I'm recording that the Right is not in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2027	Susanne Bratli has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2030	I want to go back to Sweden and the fact that it looks like we're succeeding in road safety work. But that's how the accident figures for the first 10 months show that in Norway the number of road traffic fatalities is reduced by 22 pst. in relation to last year. In Sweden, the number of road traffic fatalities has increased by 23 pst. compared to last year. In the first ten months of the year, 29 deaths per million inhabitants are reported in Norway, while 21 deaths per million inhabitants are recorded in Sweden. That was the scale we measured for last year. Then Sweden was better than us. Now there is no point in being better than Sweden, because I don't think it's good that someone goes wrong in terms of road safety. But the main point must be that we actually succeed, because the number of dead and hard damage goes down in traffic. I think that in the end in such a debate can be tricked and useful for all of us to take with us into Christmas and rejoice over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2037	To the representative Peter N. Myhre: I want to pay tribute to the Municipality of Oslo for the commitment they both have and have had to facilitate more collective trips. But it's going to be misleading to say that it's happening completely without red-green assistance. In fact, Oslo is indirectly receiving a much larger amount than other urban areas for local traffic via NSB, and it is counting on when it relates to public travel. So to the reward scheme, this was a 60-million-dollar scheme. kr when she was created by the Bondevik II government, but from next year is at 411 million. kr, and they have been set aside for the four urban areas that have entered into four-year contracts. What underpins four-year agreements is for the first time an increase in collective effort, but there is also the introduction of restrictive measures in the case of cars. For Oslo's part, it is such that they search together with Akershus, via Router. So far, we have not found it right to enter into four-year agreements with Oslo. But let me say: I believe that the Oslo area should be dealt with in a special way in the national transport plan, for the state must take an even greater responsibility for the organisation of collective travel. Not least in the central east region, this is the case. So to Jon Georg Dale: For the sake of order, E39 is among many other projects to be followed up closer – both through Sogn and Fjordane and other states – in the next national transport plan. On the Stryn tunnel, something has been done, but there is also a concept currency that applies to the future. On the Ofot track, a lot has been done – the last one is the Tåldal – there have been many improvements. LKAB and Northland Resources are now to be continued to strengthen the Ofotban further. And then I have to say in the end, I'm a little soft in relation to what's been done. I'm still glad that there's so much happening, and a joy will be doubled when it's divided. So my point was that more people have reason to rejoice. It is now time to adopt a new national transport plan on 29 February. That proposal will form the basis for many good debates on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2050	Peter N. Myhre has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2053	I thank you for the recognition contained in the Council of State's report of the public transport operation in Oslo. I explained these numbers in my previous post. When we see that another city, Norway's third largest city, gets six times as large inputs from the public transport reward scheme, despite the fact that that city, the third largest city in Norway, has very modest results, I find that the subsidies, corresponding to 0.4 pst. by Oslo's public transport budget, is completely debatable, completely marginal. Then I think it must be right for the government – since the Minister for Fisheries has already invited a debate on honesty – to stop calling this a reward scheme for public transport and rather call it what it is, a reward scheme for red-green municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2060	Thank you for your kindness. It was the last sentence of the representative Myhre's post that made me take the word completely at ease. The representative Myhre has fished today after recognition of the job he did as a transport agency in Oslo. I think it's a responsibility he's going to share with the entire Oslo City Council, including the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. So it is said that there is a reward scheme for red-green cities, and in a way plays up to it. The point is that the reward scheme is a mechanism for increasing public traffic and reducing car use. It is clear from the climate agreement – which Myhre's party, the Progress Party, is not in favour of – what demands must be made for the reward scheme. Collective action can be provided with money, but urban areas must also be given back in relation to car-restrictive measures. The problem with the application from Oslo and Akershus is that it has been too bad, and that responsibility must also take some of the time he spent as a travel agent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2069	For supplementation only: In the four urban areas that have a reward agreement, South-Trundelag is with Trondheim. They're now about to achieve an increased collective share of 30 pst. I understand that that's the Peter N. Myhre here now compares to. They have really achieved good results. And then, in addition, it's the Busker City, it's Kristiansand, and it's Bergen with its respective county municipalities. Many can say about both agreements and follow-up there. They shall report back before the end of January. For those who know the political composition in these areas, I think the last plural will call itself, is red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2076	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three, four. [[See pages 1281, 1292, 1293 and 1294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2084	The size is ready to vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2092	A total of 68 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 10–15, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 16-62, by Mr Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 63–65, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 66 and 67, by Øyvind Halleraker, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 68, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 68, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present an action plan for increased cycling among children and young people.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2132	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 66 and 67, from the right. Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to abolish the concession requirement of Post Norway AS for the obligation to maintain full banking services.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of OPS funding and organisation for the following projects in 2012: E39 Rådal–Svegetatjørn, E18 Akershus–Riksgren v/Sverige and E18 West Corridor [[Oslo-Akershus]] Here, the Left has notified that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2156	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 63–65, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a stand-alone and independent road and road traffic control body to be responsible for the supervision of roads, road users and vehicles.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a State reward scheme for the route and cycle.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: «The Government requests the submission of a case for the possible realisation of the City Tunnel as a OPS project.» Here too, the Left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2185	There is a vote on proposal No. 49, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to liquidate the exclusive right of Post Norway AS for correspondence under 50 grams from 1 July 2012.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2204	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-48 and 50-62, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up an annual maintenance report for the national road network as a whole.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that annual toll payment and use schedules are drawn up on all types of roads as long as toll financing is provided for the construction and operation of infrastructure and that such an overview is provided to the Storting annually in an appropriate manner.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of taxes and charges in the transport sector, with proposals for a future strategy for the use of taxes and charges in order to achieve national transport policy objectives.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asked to submit its own case as soon as possible for the state financing of debt in existing toll companies and for projects adopted but not initiated where toll financing is undertaken on the basis of the State taking over or redeeming the debt.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is requesting State funding of debts of existing toll companies, etc., to propose the use of new financing tools to ensure the necessary development of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network in Norway over a maximum of 25 years based on full state funding.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of State funding for the entire financing of transport projects involving toll financing, in order to reduce the total cost of financing such projects.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the State funding share of transport projects involving toll financing is granted and paid in line with the project’s financial sharing assumptions.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the repeal of § 27 and § 27A of the Act 21 June 1963 No. 23 Road Laws.’» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks during 2012 to present a separate case for the development of future collective solutions in the major cities.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the development of rail-based collective actions in and around the major cities is coordinated with the Railway Agency and that such development is part of the development of a traffic hub where several modes of transport are directly linked. The government is asking the government to present its own case on this matter.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an administrative audit of the Urban Railway Project in Bergen, both in terms of investment and operations, and in terms of achieving the objectives and premises of the Bergen Public Transport Programme.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate intermodal nodes in Bergen/Flesland and Trondheim/Værnes.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up its own node plan to ensure good node solutions where several modes of transport meet.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own key messages on strategy and actions related to efficient maritime transport and port structure during 2012.’» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a free ferry system on the national road network.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked in its 2013 draft government budget to add to the gradual phasing-out of the unloading charge in Norway except Svalbard over a four-year period.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the scope, content and costs of the current system of safety measures at Norwegian airports are reviewed with a view to reducing costs without reducing safety.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘During 2012, the Government asks the Government to present its own notification on the modernisation of Norwegian aviation policy based on the ‘Norwegian aviation strategy’ of June 2008, submitted reports on aviation safety in Norwegian aviation, and Document No. 8:16 [[2008-2009]] Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate driver training and to increase the commitment to supervision of driver training as soon as possible in order to improve quality.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government requests unrated driving licences for persons under 18 years of age.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the replacement of additional peak load in the event of road traffic accidents for drivers between 18 and 24 with additional training requirements and points out in particular that such training should be carried out in cooperation with the road safety halls.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a higher speed for mopeds.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: «The Government is asked to incorporate legal liability into the Road Traffic Code for accidents caused by road keepers.» Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of a complaint concerning a system for the classification and periodic approval of the road network in Norway.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to explore the possibilities and effects of establishing a functional and decommissioning system of ring roads leading to traffic away from Oslo City, based on Rv. 23, Rv. 35 and Rv. 120, alternatively rv. 22nd@item: inlistbox ‘... Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the standard of operation and maintenance in accordance with the applicable manual 111 continue to apply to the other national road networks even after transfer to the counties.’;» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a uniform standard applies to all national road ferries transferred to the county municipalities from 1 January 2010 in order to ensure national standard on the ferry offer.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an action plan to be drawn up by the Government with a view to a forced replacement of the ferries in the national road corridors.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to waive the requirement for new ferries to be gas fuelled.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The size approves the project e.g. 659 North Island Road, as mentioned in Prop. [[2011-2012]] 1 S Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is specifically asked to take action to steer the active development of railway development in Bergen both as part of collective action in the major cities and as part of the national strategy on the development of transport nodes. The size points in particular to the need to do this in order for such a project to be included in the new NTP 2014-2023.» Proposal No. 47 sounds: «The government asks the government in connection with the work of the 2013 state budget to share the day's cape. 1350 item 23 in two, so that the railway works budget has two separate items for operation and maintenance.» Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government is asking for statistics on direct and indirect energy consumption for the various modes of transport to be compiled.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of a case in which the use of fully funded OPS projects is assessed on routes: E39 Kristiansand– Sandnes E6 Otta–Vindalsliene E6 Selli/Steinkjer–Fauske Rv. 4 Gålleråsen – Gran and Jaren – Mjøsbrua Rv. 35 Hokksund-Hønefoss-Klöfta Rv. 2 Klöfta–Kongsvinger–Magnor/Riksgrensen E6 ferries-free at Tysfjord E6 Åsen–Show E18 Oslo–Riksgrensen/E6 Lillehammer–Ringebu E6 Koloen–Lillehammer E134 Drammen–Haukeli–Bergen with access routes E6 Alta–Laksselv E6 Corporals bru–Jaktøya E18 Langangen–Dørdal E6 Ringebu–Otta E18 Gulli–Langåsker/Bomstadt E16 Bjørum–Hønefoss E6 Dal–Minnesund–Skaberud Rv. 25 Hamar-Løten and Rv. 3 Løten–Elverum E136 Dombås–Ålesund E18 Tvedestrand–Dørdal E39 Rogfast E18 Tvedestrand–Arendal Rv. 555 Sotra compound Rv. 23 Dagslett - Linnes - Lier E39 Orkanger - Klett E39 Svegatjørn - Raådal Rv. 13 Upper Granary–Voss limit/Mønshaug–Palmafoss, incl. Racial protection E6 White Hamar-Åsen.’ [[E6]] [[SCREAMING]] Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a separate case on financing tools for investments in the transport sector. The size assumes that this is done independently of the treatment of a new national transport plan.’» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case on financing and development of major transport projects of national importance, irrespective of the national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to apply State regulation to all expansion projects on the national road network and the rail network’.» Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘During 2012, the government is asked to present its own case for the renewal, simplification and efficiency of work on national transport plans, in particular adapted to stronger governance of the national and national roads.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to report during 2012 on the development and financing of a modern and efficient transport network for the period 2012 to 2040.’ Proposal No 56 reads as follows: «The Government is asked to ensure that external quality assurance reports for large-scale State investment projects are published as soon as they are available.» Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a system which automatically gives persons who are bound by their property for infrastructure purposes the right to redeem the properties at market value immediately after the plans have been approved.’;» Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘During 2012, the government is asked to present its own monitoring report on the strategy and measures relating to efficient maritime transport and port structure, with effect from the financial year 2013.’» Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer responsibility for ports and fairways from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast to the Ministry of Transport in connection with the State Budget for 2013.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget for 2012 with its own plan for a significant increase in the level of funding associated with the re-labelling of fairways.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan with the corresponding funding for the necessary upgrading and renewal of the Coast Guard Depository Equipment and the Coast Guard Authority’s own vessels to strengthen coastal oil protection.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all public actions in the public sector related to accidents and emissions, routinely as part of a permanent evaluation process, are also audited by the National Audit Office.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2516	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide an action plan for the management of all shipwrecks along the Norwegian coast.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2535	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–14, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks to include the non-state airports of Stord, Notodden and Ski in the cross-subsidisation system currently operated between State airports.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for a reward scheme to secure the school roads.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Railway Agency into State undertakings’. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government requests the start of the construction of the City Ship Tunnel based on the option Large Tunnel as soon as possible, and submit proposals for the necessary additional appropriations for the revision of the 2012 national budget. The majority asks the government to ensure that funds are put in place if this is necessary in order to keep progress on the matter.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to immediately start work on the lifting of the submarine U-864 and the removal of the mercury cargo in the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland. The size assumes that, in parallel with this work, there is a case in the Storting on schedule and clear funding.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2572	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 3, 5 and 7, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the route-ATK as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests approval of 110 km/h as the speed limit on the best motorways as recommended by the State Road Administration.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of the objectives, strategies and measures relating to transport safety for the whole transport sector.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to open up the competitive opening of all sections of Norway.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e2606	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. One, four, six, eight and nine from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to have the driving test carried out under the supervision of traffic schools approved for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward for the reversal of the administrative reform in the field of transport, so that those more than 17 000 kilometres of roads transferred to the county municipalities on 1 January 2010 are returned to the State.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up national guidelines on the quality and quantity of TT transport as soon as possible and to propose a financing mechanism for TT transport in line with national guidelines.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case on the construction of alternative routes to the inner port of Bergen in the revised national budget for 2012.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asking the government to promote a case that addresses the financial consequences for municipalities and municipalities in connection with the introduction and operation of the new Emergency Network. The case must also make it clear how the additional costs, if any, are to be financed.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e4550	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e4585	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e4734	The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote, and the President then assumes that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e4751	Two proposals have been put forward for this matter. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own case for the total exceptional damage to the overall road network in 2011 due to floods and races and state full funding.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The 2011 State budget makes the following changes: Cape VerdeCronsExpenditure1320 Road transport services:23Traffic supervision, operation and maintenance of highways, etc., can be transferred, can be used under item 29, item 30, item 31 and item 72, is increased by 381 000 000 from NOK 7 170 100000 to NOK 7 551 100 000
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-07.ana.ud2084e5441	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
