ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e26	An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative of Mette Hanekamhaug from 2 February onwards. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Jon Georg Dale, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e44	Jon Georg Dale is here and wants to take a seat. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e49	On behalf of the representatives of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik, Åge Starheim, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to start work on lifting the submarine U-864 and removing the mercury cargo of 67 tonnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e54	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e66	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the government councils Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Rigmor Aasrud and Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. The President perceives that no one has stood up on that occasion. We'll start with the first main questions from Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e75	My question goes to Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. In 1970 we were the best in road safety in the Nordic region. In 1995, Sweden passed by us, and after that, Sweden has just kept going by far. Now the roads in Sweden are actually 40 pst. more traffic-safe than roads in Norway. In 2010, 210 people lost their lives in traffic, that is, the passenger capacity of more than one aircraft of type Boeing 737. If so many people had died in aviation, this would never be accepted. Unfortunately, there are clearly other criteria on the road network in Norway. There, commissions are put down and reports are made, but the report is put in the drawer when it is finished. In Sweden, more than 2 000 km have already been built with motorways and 2 000 km in the middle, while in Norway, approximately 2 000 km have been built. 350 km of motorway and approximately the same in the case of middle parts. It does not help to blame that we have built so narrow roads in the past that it has made it difficult to fit middle parts, as long as 210 people die. That's 210 fates. It is 210 children, mothers and fathers who perish tragically. And isn't it time for action and not talk? Why won't the Council of State be involved in increasing the allocations of midway and motorways when we have documentation that clearly shows that physical separation of the carriageways reduces the front-to-front accidents, and thus a lot of fatal accidents, by 70-80 pst?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e86	210 traffic fatalities in 2010 are 210 too many. There's reason to rejoice, after all, that we have to go all the way back to 1954 to find the corresponding number, and despite the fact that traffic is multiple. Then it's time for action. We are in the middle of an historic upgrading of the Norwegian road network. It's a long way from using the time to talk. We built twice as much motorway as we did before we took over the government. We have taken the goal of stopping the expiration of maintenance, which we also know means a lot to the road network. We know from accident reports that both meeting accidents and roadside accidents, i.e. road-related accidents, are important. But there is a need for a much broader approach, and the question goes back to the Progress Party. Yes, we're going to build roads, but we have to actually also bet on the relationship with the driver, when the 2009 accident analyses show that the relationship with the driver is a contributing cause in more than half of the accidents. Will the Progress Party, for example. be on the route ATK – automatic traffic control – a measure that has now been tested on three routes and shows that when speed decreases, the accident risk is reduced? So if all the drivers run off, keep speed limits and use seat belts, we'll be able to halve today's number of 210 people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e93	When it comes to the use of seatbelts, I fully agree with the Council of State, and I took that with the Prime Minister in the previous Question Time. But I'm experiencing a state council that becomes a disclaimer council. It does not help with buttons and glossy images. Last week the transport committee was in West Agder and Rogaland. There's 20 million missing. kr to fit the middle parts of Flekkefjord on a distance of a few hundred metres. Governments and governments can't find the 20 million. It's buttons and slides. We have to be able to look further. We need to see what they do in neighboring countries like Sweden. There's the 40 pst. less at risk of accidents than they are in Norway. Another thing: now you have to build a new E39 in More and Romesdal, and then it's like, because the annual traffic is less than 8 000, you don't even have to discuss whether to set up middles. I want to challenge the Council of State on the following: Is it that a life on a road with less than 8 000 ÅDT is less important than a life on a road with more than 8 000 ÅDT?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e102	The answer to the last one is no. But at the same time, when we put in action, not least on the basis of professional advice, we assess where they fit best. In the national transport plan, 750 km of different intermediate measures are agreed. We're on track to that. Of them, there are only 250 km of middle parts, and there are also other middle measures – we build 25 per year. So I think we should look at the criteria when it applies to daily traffic, if 8 000 is the right number. But I do not disclaim responsibility. I make sure, and I'm very glad, that we have a national transport plan that is now to be followed up to the point and the point. However, the Progress Party focuses easily and clearly on midpoints and denies other reports that show that we need a broad approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e111	Four follow-up questions are raised – first by the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e114	In a press release on 7 January 2008, the Swedish sister organisation of Vegg Trafikk states: «75% of deaths could probably have been avoided if the road transport system had been as forgiving as the zero vision assumes.» This is in Sweden. Listening to the abduction from the Council of State and her accusations against the Advancement Party, and she herself does not have the answer to our challenges, it actually reminds me of a very famous advertising film, where mother stands and talks and makes many well-meaning explanations to her son and an aquarium fish. But it was like the Doffen was dead. Sweden has understood that, our neighboring country is one of the world's most traffic-secured countries, and we know it's over 40 pst. More likely to be killed in Norway than in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e128	So it's a historical fact that Sweden built a wider road 30 years back, and that it's easier for them to roll out middle parts. So where we're building the middle parts, we're either on the new road or we're actually going to have to expand the road. Safe Traffic is making an excellent effort. They are part of the group that has proposed an action plan for the Ministry of Transport, which consists of 152 actions, three of which are just measures in relation to speed, noise and belt use. I would like to say that it is a difficult political burden for me not to take into account precisely the advice and measures proposed, including: distance automatic traffic control, which works.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e133	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e136	It is a serious topic that we are now discussing, road safety, traffic death. I don't think it impresses many people that the Council of State is attacking the opposition in this matter. I think people are far more interested in hearing what the government is doing. The Council of State indicated that it was necessary to go back to 1954 to find an equal number of traffic fatalities. The truth is that it was under the Bondevik II administration that the number of traffic fatalities was greatly reduced, and then it stayed about that level. But it's far from good enough. We need to take new measures. Governments are comforted by their national transport plan. But the truth is, the government is 500 million. kr below the national transport plan for road safety measures. Then my simple question to the Council is, when she says that she is concerned with road safety: why has the government stepped down the allocations for road safety in relation to the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e146	When it comes to the national transport plan, we have an alert for an escalation. That's what we're gonna do. We're going to have to go up when there's a frame. The details are included in the 2011 budget. Then there is a question of whether the measures at the very post of traffic security are isolated, or whether these are the total measures we are now taking in the road sector, which have a bearing on road safety. Take racial protection e.g., which has a formidable increase – 1 billion. kr per year. It is quite obvious that it has a significant impact on road safety. I'm not comforting myself with anything. I'm busy making an intensive effort for road safety. 210 is too many, but we need a wide approach. We can never deny a responsibility for road and running gear, or that in more than half of the serious accidents the driver is the contributing cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e153	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e156	Last night we saw at NRK that 67 people aged 15-25 had died in traffic in Oslo and in Akershus in the last ten years. What's special is just this group of young people, and not least young men. There was also an OECD study in 2010 which was relatively crushing for Norway. No other place is traffic death greater among 18-, 19-, and 20-year-olds than in Norway. It's a big problem. In fact, in relative terms, Norway is well ahead when it comes to road safety. But there is a lot of evidence to suggest that we have a special challenge among the youngest, and I think in youth between 18 and 20 and 18–25 years. What are the actions of the State Councils for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e163	I share Mr Hareide's concern about the percentage distribution of road fatalities – 210 is too much, but it is clear that it is particularly alarming that the proportion of young killers is so large. For this reason, we also have our own action plan that focuses precisely on responses to youth. There are three different categories. One is traffic training itself. The other is different holding campaigns. There's a lot of youth inside, says from and doesn't accept high speed, because speed is a special theme there. The third is precisely measures in relation to the driver's card, i.e. tightening the dot tax. You must lose the driver card if you exceed the speed limits and have a test driver card.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e168	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e171	For the Left, road safety will always have priority. That is why we have been a driver of physical middle parts – in Bondevik II – we have been a driver of independent roadside supervision, and in all our alternative budgets we have put a heavy strain on rail and public transport, precisely because congestion has a major impact on road safety. After a technical report that was handed over yesterday, and which the Minister for Transport knows for sure, I noticed that the Minister for Transport said that one in the coming NTP would propose tougher priorities. My question to the Council of State is this: does it mean that the Council of State will support the Left in setting up high-ranking collective services in the largest cities, such as the United States? urban railways, which can definitely do something about both congestion and road safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e178	Yesterday we received phase 1 in the work on a new national transport plan, which is due to become part of a big message in 2013. We are now going to meet all the county councils during February to March. I myself have warned that collective action in our urban areas must be promoted more strongly. In addition, in order to achieve this, the state must have stronger economic involvement. So it's still a while before the concrete measures. We have to get back to that. We know we have a reward scheme. We buy local trains in Oslo, and we know that there are plans for an urban runway of more places. It will clearly also contribute in relation to road safety and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e183	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e186	I want to ask my main question to the Minister of Labour. Since 2006, we have had a common labour and welfare centre, Nav, which is to follow up the sick and ensure that people receive prompt and proper treatment, so that we can get more from social security to work. Since 2006, the number of people not coming back to work has also increased. The trend from 2010 to 2011 is that long-term sick people in particular are on social security. This was just one of the hubs and social partners that were supposed to prevent through IA cooperation. Now, for the second consecutive year, the National Audit Service did not want to approve Nav's accounts. Now, given that the floor is around one-third of our total state budget, this is pretty close to a scandal. However, even more serious is the fact that the report that came to date in January shows that Nav’s efforts towards long-term disease reporters are also strongly criticised by the Riksrevision — in one of the most important areas of the department, the Riksrevision believes that one of our main social institutions is failing users. The National Audit Office’s 2009 report shows that only as few as a third of the long-term sick people receive a dialogue meeting 2. Doctors attend dialogue meetings too little, and only 10 pst. receive a plan of activity within 12 weeks. This is serious, because there are a lot of fates, people who in this way get their way back to working life extended, or even interrupted. I expect the Council of State will do something so that in a year's time we won't be left here with signed accounts and slaughter of the most important work of the department. So I ask you, what is the concrete numerical goal of the Council of State for Nav? And how many of the long-term sick people will be followed up in 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e195	It is true that we have received this report from the National Audit Office, and I take it very seriously. Then it is important to stress that the numbers the Riksrevision operates with are from June 2009 to August 2010. So in that period, the social partners have concluded a new IA agreement where we are just dealing with the issues raised by the representative, in particular regarding how to make an early follow-up to the sick, because you know that the sooner you get in, the more likely it is that you don't really need a dialogue meeting 2 and you don't get a long-term sick leave that can lead to disability. What has been laid down in the IA agreement, and which I also use in the document that I am about to present to the Stortinget, is to move the dialogue meeting 1 up to eight weeks and thus get started earlier. The second thing you've been very concerned about, and the national auditor is the cooperation between Nav, doctor and employer. I now have extensive contact with the Medical Association and the doctors just for the time being to work to improve that cooperation. Some of the elements of the IA agreement are also how doctors should be better involved, the training of doctors — at all so that doctors can improve their health care work. We're in a very good voice in that work. Sick leave also goes down very much. It's in itself a good thing about this, because when sick leave goes down, we'll also in the long run see less transition to disability. You know that, for example. from Sweden. Where you've had your sick leave, you also get the disability in the long term. In terms of the number of Nav dialogue meetings, this is constantly linked to an assessment of what is appropriate. There are some dialogue meetings you don't have, because it has to do with patients where it's not appropriate at all. If you are involved in a cancer operation, there is no point in having a dialogue meeting. But I'm excited about the problem. I follow it up all the time in relation to the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e206	We are aware, as the Council of State says, that after 2009, we have a new IA agreement, but it is also a fact that it is not yet such that all the measures that have been agreed on are in place and may have an effect. In 2010, there was a great transition of people to redundancy payments. The government budgets with zero development in sick leave and an increase in redundancy pay in 2011. Does this mean that the Council of State does not believe in its own policy, or does it mean that she believes that the dialogue meetings do not work as intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e212	I absolutely believe that the dialogue meetings work as intended, but we should be aware that there are difficult things to do. It's people who are sick. We rely on good cooperation between employers, doctors, employees, not least, and Nav. The first and most important thing is really the triangle employer-employee-doctor. Nav really doesn't come in at any later time. One of the most important things we are doing is getting a good schedule of activities for the sick person at the earliest possible time, so that he can get to work as quickly as possible. There I want to mention classified search messages as one of the most important things. That's what we see increasing. Graded search reports do not lose one’s foothold in the job — one of the most important points in order to reduce sick leave. It's true that not everything is in place, but we've also said that. Among other things, we need to: have legislative changes – and I come to Stortinget with them during the spring – sanctioning systems against doctors, sanctioning systems against employers and employees in order to improve the functioning of this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e219	There will be four follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e222	It is good to hear that the Council of State believes it is in a ‘good voice’. I have to admit that I have not heard that expression before, and I am a little uncertain about whether it refers to the voice of fish or a search of the English «team», which comes from trains or something like that. But I'm assuming that that means you're on your way in the future somehow. But that was not the question. This has been said by the Council of State from this pulpit ever since she joined, and her forerunner said it, and the forerunner before there again said it. The question was: What is the concrete objective of the Council of State for 2011 — not whether one is in a good voice, not an evaluation of whether developments are going well or slightly ahead? The Council of State has specific targets for 2011, including: at dialogue meetings, on the follow-up of long-term health practitioners, who she wants to share with the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e227	What I mean by good voice, to explain it, if it was an unparliamentary and unclear expression, is that we are about to get sick leave drastically down. It has actually been reduced – from 2002 and 20 pst. – and we have the target of 10 pst. It's demanding, and we have to keep working on it in order to keep it and get it down. Then we have the dialogue meetings, which it's important that Nav is inside. I agree that Nav in the previous years has not fully managed to get to the level you should have. I'm going to get back to the actual target, if you want. What I'm busy with now is that this is not one number. This must be done in the light of needs. I can say that there are so many – and that is the goal – but it will also vary greatly from one person to another, and if you succeed in getting in early, because the sooner you get in, the less need is for dialogue meeting 2. But I can give the representative the right to have a challenge when it comes to getting Nav to be good at the Dialogue 2 meeting. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e234	The President must be allowed to remind the Council of State that the time limits applicable to speaking time must, in any case, be respected. Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e239	I'm recording that the Council of State says there's a dramatic decline in sick leave, but that's all according to how you use the statistics, because it's a relatively large increase if you start in 2004 and up to today. But now leave it, and let's not discuss the statistics like that. We record that the government in the budget has said that one should have a zero growth in sick leave, and actually budgets with a decrease. At the same time, the IA Agreement has been important. A number of measures have been put in place, in which the dialogue meeting and, not least, the state of the art have been one of the most important measures. When we dealt with the action plan due to the crisis in the spring of 2009, Stortinget provided additional funds for the Ministry to follow up on this. Then the National Audit Office's report shows that the department has not followed up in these areas, and the Council of State is familiar to me with the top officer in charge of the department. When will the Council of State begin to follow up the measures which she herself has put before the Storting and which the Storing has asked her to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e246	So it's not right that we don't have a good development in dialogue meetings, too. I repeat that the figures to which the Riksrevision refers go from 2009 to August 2010. For example, if you have: looking at the contact with the employer side, it is now a very positive development. Employers feel that they receive good support from Nav for the follow-up to the application. That's a consequence of the good IA work we're doing, and you shouldn't underestimate that. That's exactly the triangle cooperation that's important. So I'm going to come back to Stortinget with clear measurement figures related to how many dialogue meetings you're going to have. I think it is very important that you do not underestimate the fact that you actually manage to reduce your sick leave in Norway, even though you can take the highest point and say that you are not far down, but according to the plan we have succeeded very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e251	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e254	First, I have to say that it is a pleasure to have the Council of State back from the sick leave. It would have been tempting to ask about her boss, Jens Stoltenberg, has followed up with the dialogue meeting and carried out good conversations. In any case, the result is that she is fresh and back – and we are happy about that. While the state councils have been sick, and lately, there has been a great uprising and a lot of trouble around Nav. I am not going to use the question for it, because it is going to be allowed to answer in an interview later. But the main challenge is that we're all some that early effort and close follow-up are the key. When Nav does not have the resources needed to implement it, there will also be a worse result at the other end – more people who are no longer sick, and more people who end up being sick. The National Audit Office's report shows that there are clear spatial differences, where there are everything from less than 20 pst. for over 60 pst. the completed dialogue meeting. It tells me that it seems that the building has poor control. So my question is, will the Council of State go stronger and give clearer guidance to Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e265	First of all, it's an organization that's being tapped. Nav got 1 billion. kr in the increase in appropriations from 2009 to 2010, and it has continued in 2011 – just so we agree that Nav is not an organisation that is being fed economically in a way that is starving. So that's right, as it also refers to, that there are huge variations, and we're going to go in and look at that. But I'm very concerned that the job we're doing now needs to be done in the context of the general IA work we're doing. So we're working well with the social partners, we're working very, very well and close to the companies, and we see results. Then I can assure you that I am also serious that we need to follow up on how Nav follows up the special dialogue meeting 2 in order to be able to build up just under the good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e272	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e276	In my family, the term “good voice” was used when the mother thought that the family had good enough speed on the way in to the cabin, then we were in “good voice”. The report submitted does not exactly show that it is ‘good voice’. That's pretty depressing what the Riksrevision says. The imbalance in our entire system is that we have doctors and patients who decide, and states and employers who pay. There's no dependency between them. It seems like the Council of State agrees with us in the Left that the expenditure actually has to go down, and that we have to go into it. Tomorrow is the anniversary of the Council's expert committee, which was set up to give good ideas. Very little of it has been followed up. Nothing that could be a little conflicty to go into, has at least been followed up. But now the Council of State has had a year to think through the proposals of the Committee of Experts. Let the Council of State go in and take some of the big grips, such as: the standardisation of sick pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e283	It's true that we got this expert committee on sick pay a year ago. We've followed up most of it. But we have a process of following it up, and I will come back to Stortinget during the spring, among other things. with legislative changes related to the new IA agreement, and related to clear recommendations from the expert committee, where, in particular, this with classified sick leave is an important thing – where we already see that it works. As far as standardisation is concerned, we have been quite clear from the government's point of view that clean standards do not work in isolation. We are concerned that doctors should be well trained to ensure the best possible and the best possible level of treatment for the sick during the sick period. We are doing that work, and that work will be intensified. It's set of means that we're just going to have to have such a training of doctors. I have a very broad communication with the doctors just at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e290	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e293	I want to ask my question to the Minister of Labour. The number of poor children in Norway has increased by 50,000 in the last five years, and 100,000 children now live below the poverty line, according to Fafo. There are 4,000 people in line for drug treatment, while at the same time the government is laying down treatment facilities at the Salvation Army and other voluntary organizations. There are more than 277,000 people in health queues – an increase of 14,000 people only in the last year. The number of people without housing has increased in the last few years. The queue before psychiatry has increased in recent years. And the number of disabled people without a job has unfortunately also increased in recent years. In summary, a lot of us have gotten much better, but the part that falls outside also increases. While the government commits to implementing important measures, there are even more poor people in our country. It is very serious that there are more and more children growing up without having the same possibilities as other children. There are children who cannot go on their birthday because they cannot afford gifts or who cannot participate in skiing days because they do not have skis. Poverty is job no. 1, The Labour Party will become clearer in the fight against poverty and will stick to the goal of eradicating poverty in Norway, said Helga Pedersen to the Newspaper in 2008. The Christian People's Party has called for a national fight against poverty. We have proposed eleven concrete and targeted actions. There is a minimum state standard, there are several labour market measures, there is a stop in supply when it comes to drug users and the elderly, and there is an increase in initial support for young mothers. My question to the Council of State is: will the Labour Party and the Government join in on this task, or do they feel that we are in a good voice when it comes to fighting poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e308	I realize that'sim' is kind of going to be my new chair now, to say it that way. I just want to say right away that this government actually spends much more money on what you can define as poverty measures, than what the former government did, which the party of the representative was also involved in. But I don't think it's so interesting to sit and discuss how much money you've spent, here and now. We can also discuss the numbers and how to calculate poverty, but the representative is right that there are too many children who don't have it the way we want all children to have it. The government is pursuing an active policy in relation to this. We're very busy not talking about poverty as poverty, but going about what's the root of people getting there. Then we know – if we go into this and look at this – that there is a lack of work, there are in many cases immigrant environments where you can see that this is inherited, it's addiction, and it's psychiatry. Then there are the three posts we have to attack. And the main thing for the government is to get people to work or qualify. Then we have the qualification programme, which works -- it has an incredibly high degree of people coming back to work and education. We've been committed to care and psychiatry in this year's budget. And – perhaps the most important thing – we're busy doing something about high school dropout, because we know that falling from high school is one of the reasons why you also reproduce poverty, it goes into inheritance because you fall outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e315	I thank you for the answer and am glad that one has the attitude that this will have to do more in the future, because we have to be sure that development is not good. I want to ask a question to the Council of State. Yes, work is important, but why does it cut back on labour market measures, when there is solution No. 1 to get out of the poverty problem? In the time we have had, unemployment has fallen, while the poverty problem in Norway has increased. So the Council of State also takes up the issue of drug treatment. But then it's very difficult to understand that the government, when it's in line with 4,000 to get a drug treatment offer, at the same time shut down the institutions that offer it when it comes to this. We have now seen that due to the bidding rounds, there are many voluntary institutions that have been able to lay down, because of government policies. Will the Council of State do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e322	In order to take into account the area of action for which I am responsible, and in which the representative was also concerned, relating to labour market measures, we need to have a somewhat sobering relationship with that debate. This government has thus more or less doubled the number of labour market measures since 2005 – be aware of it – and there has been almost a corresponding increase in appropriations for this type of action. What we've done for 2011, is we've done a little downgrading, 3,800 places, that's because you had an foreseen decrease in the vacancy. We had a high level in 2010 related to the financial crisis. And then you see that you're over that knee, and then you have a cut like that. And what I want to know is that when we were doing the accounting for places for 2010, you got 18,000 more places out of the money you had than you had planned. What I'm trying to say is that we can't have the whole debate on work in Norway related to reducing labour market measures by 3,800 places. We will finally see what the reality is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e327	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e330	Now I think I have to breathe out, because I knew I was engaged. I don't think the Council of State is aware of the situation. At the beginning of 2011, there are 61 000 people with reduced working capacity on action. The average rate for 2011 in the State budget is 51 000. That's 10,000 fewer. When we're talking about an average, it means that for several months, there must be less than 50,000 places. At the same time as 150,000 people are in line and are asking for a place to take action, the government only cuts 10,000 places from 61,000 to 51,000, and perhaps even more for a few months. If there's work that's the key, which we're all about, then it has to be able to help the people into work also be the key. That is why I have to say that when I hear the Council of State say that everything is very well and that there is a commitment to labour market measures. Won't the Council of State do something about it or prevent it from doing something like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e335	I didn't say everything was bad. I've just stressed that this government is spending twice as much money on these measures as the previous governments have done, and we have to bring that in that picture. And then I'm holding on to the fact that there's a drop of 3,800 places, but as the representative is also aware, there's something about the distribution, that is, where you take that decrease, whether you take that decrease linked to them with moderate aid needs, or those who have a bigger problem in the labour market. Here you have chosen to take more of the 3,800 places among those who don't need that much help, because you get a bigger turnover in the system. The point is that this is not how many people are actually on the measures, there are how many places you have, and then there are many more people on it over the period. I would like to agree with the representative that it would have been useful or would have been desirable with several places. This is also a budget to ensure employment in Norway, in order to balance economic developments, and then it is a proper assessment by the government to be at this level for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e340	Vigdis Giltun - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e344	Voluntary organisations working against poverty and social exclusion contribute to improving the daily lives of disadvantaged people, both through events, support measures and self-help activities. The Nav information page with the grant application form reads as follows: «With the draft State budget presented in October, there will be very limited opportunities to provide operational support to new organisations or support for new projects.» In this year's budget, the Progress Party therefore decided to strengthen the budget by 200 million. kr on this item. This would have been well spent money, which would have given up many times again, and could give growth opportunities for important poverty reduction measures. Why will the government prevent new organisations from being given the opportunity to receive grants, and new measures to be taken, when precisely the assistance provided by these organisations can help many people living in poverty, improve their lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e354	This government grants large grants to non-governmental organisations in the field under consideration. What I'm referring to here is that because you have long-term contracts, so that money comes over time, and because it's supposed to be predictability for them, there's a limited access to opening up to new ones. This does not mean that I do not mean that new measures are also important, but there is a balance between the amount of money you spend on this and how much you will spend on other businesses, among other things. in Nav, and we believe that this is a proper balance. We are already giving large grants to e.g. The Church's Bymission, and I think we have a lot of use for the job done. I would like to stress that this is a very important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e359	Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e362	I want to go back to what was the original question, poverty. I am very pleased that the Council of State stresses that the issue of poverty in Norway is huge and complicated. That's it. The heavy causes are immigration, exclusion, integration, absenteeism, not talking about drugs and psychiatry. But then there is also something to do with the effects of poverty, and it may be especially important for child poverty. In the right, we have been concerned with well-being that works, and right now there is a campaign in progress suggesting that in all municipalities in Norway, some simple arrangements should be made. You have to give every child the opportunity to borrow sports equipment, you have to have simple, unbureaucratic arrangements to pay the quota to selected non-governmental organisations, i.e. those you want to be in, and you have to have a cultural card that makes no one excluded from cultural offerings solely because their parents have a bad economy. Of course, it won't do anything about the root causes, but it might alleviate some of the child poverty. How can the Council of State contribute to more municipalities doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e367	As the representative also says, we already have State aid for these types of schemes in the municipalities. What the representative really asks of me is to consider whether or not to extend these arrangements, and it is a budgetary matter that I will come back to. But I am very pleased that the representative himself stresses that this does nothing about the reasons, because that is one of the things I am most concerned about. If you want to succeed in this, you have to get your parents to work, you have to get your parents to work. We've had a little discussion in the Evening Post lately about whether disability is inherited. That disability is inherited, I have never polemized against the representative about it, because I fully agree with that. And everyone who's got a handle on it says that some of the most important thing here is to see Mom and Dad at work. If you see Mom and Dad in social security every single day, the danger is to end up there very big. That is why I believe that we need to stop talking about poverty in general, we need to target our actions – also what the representative is concerned about, but we need to be focused on immigrants and immigrant women, drugs and psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e374	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e377	My question also goes to the Minister of Labour. Until 1 January, it was such that married and cohabiting pensioners were discriminated against by curtailing their basic pension by 15 pst. A new pension scheme, which came into force just over a month ago, is continuing a differentiation based on marital status. The new thing is that the curtailment is to take place in the guarantee pension stock. This means that those with high income will not be eligible for the guarantee pension stock, but no curtailment. Let's show this with the following example: Kari and Trine started working at the same time. They belong to the low pay group. They have the same job, they do the same job, and they retire when they're 67. Let's say they're 81 years old. That means that Trine, who has chosen to hold back the old age, will get a total of 158 000 kroner less in total pension than Kari, who was divorced before she reached retirement age. Let's say they don't belong to the low pay group, but they have an income of over 400,000 kroner. Then they get no curtailment, regardless of marital status. The government has been concerned with fair redistribution and has repeated that argument repeatedly in the political debate. I would therefore challenge the Council of State: how does the Council of State think it is fair redistribution to remove the curtailment on the basis of civil status for high pay, while maintaining full curtailment for low pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e388	With regard to the rules on the curtailment of pensions for married and cohabited persons, we have, in line with the pension agreement, continued the scheme already in place today, where it is a curtailment for married and cohabited persons. When it comes to where it comes in relation to high pay and low pay, I would like very much to be allowed to come back to it in a written reply to the representative. For just the fact that's based here, I have to look at it more closely to give a good and satisfying answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e395	My question is quite simple, something you don't have to go home and think very carefully, or come back with a written answer to: It's whether the Council of State thinks it's a sensible and good redistribution policy to remove the abbreviation for high pay, but keep it too low. It is a principle to which it should be simple to answer. If the Council of State's answer is no, will she be involved, along with the Progress Party, and change the legislation, thus removing the abbreviation for married and cohabiting persons as a whole, so that these unsocial effects and the injustice that the new pension system here invites you to do are avoided? Most likely, according to the response of the State Council, this is probably an unintended effect of the new pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e400	The background to this abbreviation is, of course, that the representative is also aware that living in a two-income family is cheaper than living in a one-income family. With regard to precisely the question asked by the representative – even if it is presented as a yes or no – there are some assumptions about earning, etc. to it. So to answer correctly and correctly, and that is what I am busy doing, I will be allowed to come back to it in a written reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e405	A follow-up question has been asked – from the representative Laila Marie Reiertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e409	One might well note that in this case there is at least a lack of voice, the word a should use here is rather a failure. It was with great amazement that I read Bergen’s Official Journal last Friday that the state still owes widowers nearly half a billion dollars after a 2007 EFTA Court ruling. This is serious and not trusting. Some of these widowers have already gone missing and will not be able to recover these legitimate money directly, which makes it even worse. State Secretary Jan-Erik Støstad promises payment this year, but unfortunately too late for even more. This must give both the department and the council a rather dull taste in their mouths. An extra float will occur when the Progress Party has recorded this earlier, namely 12 March last year. In answer to written questions, the Council of State states: ‘The objective of the Member State pension fund and the KLP is to finalise the cases of reimbursement before 1 October 2010. The Ministry will monitor progress in dealing with these matters.» It must be noted that progress is still very absent. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e421	It is true, as the representative refers to, that it has taken time to review these matters. Some of the background is that it has taken time just to get the legislation in place. As we also refer to, State Secretary Støstad has now said to the Official Journal of Bergen that these matters will be dealt with during 2011. That doesn't mean everyone gets their cases processed on 29 December 2011. Increased resources and work have been deployed in connection with this in the State pension fund, with a view to their continuous completion and exit. I also think you should be aware that you are doing an individual treatment of each case, so it's not that at the moment you got that decision against you, you could just pay to everyone. However, it has taken a long time, I will agree with that, but now we have given a clear promise when we will be done with those matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e428	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e431	I am going back to road safety, and my question then goes to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. This is because I am not satisfied with the answers we received in the previous round. That being said, I do not doubt that the Council of State will despair when young people are killed in traffic or when families with young children are severely injured or killed in meeting accidents. I think the Council of State has as strong a commitment to this as the rest of us. But at the same time, as politicians, we also have to show that some things are more important than others. And as far as road safety is concerned, it is a reality that the government has stepped down the allocations for road safety in relation to the national transport plan. In the previous spontaneous interview, the Right Prime Minister challenged to participate in a national effort where we could join forces in the opposition and government parties and say that measures against traffic death, road safety measures, are actually more important than other things. That's why we sometimes enter into broad settlements in Stortinget. The Prime Minister dismissed it by pointing out that if you were in favour of more and better ways, you could vote in the Labour Party. We are also concerned about people coming home safely, and then it is not enough to step down the appropriations for road safety. Then we have to step up the measures on road safety. My question to the Council of State is: When the Prime Minister has rejected a wide-ranging agreement in the Grand Duchy on a national effort and a binding action plan, will the Council of State take the initiative to submit an obliging road safety escalation plan in the Grand Duchy during 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e440	I am pleased that there is a strong cross-political commitment to greater road safety. So it's my opinion when it comes to this issue of settlement, first: we have a deal, we have a national transport plan that we now follow year by year that includes better roads and strengthened road maintenance, which contains a warning about race protection – 1 billion. kr per year – which also includes specific targeted measures for road safety. Let me say that for the first time we spend far more money in total today than before in the road sector – I think Jan Tore Sanner and I am a few about that. What hasn't happened so far is that we also allow more traffic security than they do in Sweden. And when we compare ourselves to other countries, we have to say that Norway is a road-safe country to travel in comparison with the vast majority of the others, and we need to have an approach that goes on the road, on the road and on measures to the driver. When it comes to Sweden, and the reason for the reduction there, they themselves pointed to two factors. One is the middle of the road. The second is a gigantic cleanup in relation to speed. They have e.g. three times as many automatic photo boxes as we do, and they have triple controls in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e451	I did not see this as an answer to my question. I didn't ask about Sweden, I didn't ask about other countries. I would like to point out that the European Road Safety Agency has pointed out that since 2001 Norway has been slowing down in the case of fatal accidents. But that wasn't my main point. My main point is: what do we do in Norway? And what the state council consistently does is refer to the national transport plan. Let me do that, too. In the national transport plan, it was said that 860 million were to be used. kr for road safety measures each year. In 2010 it was granted 682 million. SEK and in 2011 only 545 million. kr. In other words, it's a decommissioning plan. The government is already under $ 1⁄2 billion. kr in relation to road safety. If the government believes that road safety is more important than anything else in the field of transport policy, it must also be demonstrated in practical action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e458	Traffic security is priority No. 1 for the government in the case of trade. Therefore, it is also such that we do not show traffic security to one chapter and one item. However, we have a broad approach to other actions on the road — which are carried out in other posts — that go on different measures when it comes to driving gear, but also especially with regard to the driver. It is relevant for Norway to compare with other countries. But I totally agree with that point. 1 for us is to strengthen our own efforts every year. What I mean is that we do, and I think that the ‘results’ so far – that is, the number of serious accidents goes down – show that it benefits. So, when it comes to this, there's new possibilities for each budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e465	There will be three follow-up questions – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e468	I have great respect for the fact that the Council of State says that road safety is priority No. 1st@item: inlistbox That's when it's so disappointing to read the numbers that come out. The representative Sanner mentioned the number of millions that had been granted — that it was a decommissioning plan. The Council of State has said for itself, and it says in the NTP that 750 km of centre is to be built. So far, after two years in the period, 3 miles of middle parts are built. That means – then I just have to ask the State Council to confirm what I am saying – that there are still 720 km, or 9 miles – 90 km – per year during the transport planning period. Can the Council of State confirm that, for the remaining eight years of the transport planning period, at least 9 kilometres are to be built with middle-parties each year, or is this objective abandoned?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e473	I understand that the Right does not mean that a multiple of the efforts on racial protection, a huge effort to maintain the road network we have, and the construction of a new road is road safety – nor 1 billion. extra kr to the county roads. For our part, we have to look at it differently. So we go to the 750 kilometers. What is mentioned in the national transport plan is 750 km of intermediate measures. That means middle measures. The middle measures are then sorted out by 250 km with middle parts, and then there are different middle measures. There are spaces, there are different other ways of making a difference. What I can confirm then is that we are on the road when it concerns the construction of middle parts according to the objectives set in the National Transport Plan. What I can also confirm is that we're still looking at possibilities here for other middle measures as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e480	Ingebjørg Vosskensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e484	Traffic safety is important, and getting middle parties is like winning the lottery. When the opposite vehicle intersects, the middle parts are often what distinguishes life from death. The safety of traffic, yes the safety of a pitfall, is gold worth, and it saves us for sorrow and pain, great suffering and loss of human life. We know that there is a great deal of reduction in traffic accidents where we have built middle parts. It is then irresponsible for the government to bet as minimally on the middle parts as it does. In fact, it is incomprehensible that such road safety measures are not taken more seriously. The few kilometres of pitfalls that the government wants to build are almost nothing, and Sweden is going to surpass us here in total. My question is then: why does the government not want to build more kilometers with a mint than what is done, when the significance for the Norwegian people is so great? We have money. First, there must be even more lives lost on such routes as the drive to Flekkefjord on E39, where six people have lost their lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e493	The government builds middle parts, the government invests on a safer path, but it has a broader approach. It is short and good because we see it as irresponsible not to take seriously also the reports that show that one of the simplest measures is the responsibility of each one of us who leads – i.e. speed kills. For example, distance-wise ATK – automatic traffic control – reduces the accident risk three times in itself compared to not having such a warning. So I would say when it concerns E18 in the South, when it concerns Flekkefjord and other areas there, that there has been a traffic security inspection from the State Road Service, and follow-up comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e500	Dagrun Eriksen – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e503	The last state council said a little low, it's heard – and it's great. Many in-depth analyses have been carried out over the past few years to identify the cause of accidents. It gives us knowledge, knowledge that enables us to initiate actions that work, and not actions that we believe work. In the south, 259 fatal accidents occurred between 2005 and 2009. 28 p.m. in these cases, these fatal accidents are about driving in a drug-induced condition. Today we have heard the Council of State talk about not only the state of the road, about middle parties – as the Christian People's Party believes is very important to get in place – but also about the driver's responsibility. Then I hear just a little low that we don't like it. What I want is a state council and a government that now dares to stand up and say ‘don't drink and drive’ – run a massive campaign that says that rush and driving don't belong together, and not just say that you don't like it. Will the Council of State take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e515	Governments have taken initiatives. Before Christmas we got a bill change in Stortinget that meant tightening up compared to driving in a drug-induced state – zero tolerance. We had a law from before when it spelled alcohol. We've now got it going even when it's affecting other drugs, and it's getting sharper especially for those who have driver cards on trial. So I agree that there needs to be both changes in law, here there needs to be detention campaigns, and here there needs to be awareness-raising through training – both in school and in driving training. We're working on all of these fields and we're happy for everyone we have on the team in this context, because we need a broad commitment here. Noise and driving are not compatible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e522	So we're done with the oral question procedure, and we're going over to the regular question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e534	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives of Henning Warloe and Elisabeth Aspaker, respectively, to the Minister of Knowledge, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 3 and 4 from the representatives of Gunnar Gunnarsen and Line Henriette Hämdal respectively to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Vigdis Giltun to the Minister of Labour, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 5, i.e. first in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e591	The questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Councils have gone away. The first question is question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e600	‘In the year’s budget, EUR 3 million is committed. kr for the service dog project to be carried out. In addition, an overall labour and social committee said that 3 million. kr not used in 2010 could be used for replacement dogs. In the course of the year, eleven dogs reach retirement age, and next year another five, and there will be great consequences if these users become without a dog. The answer to my written question no. 697 for 2010–2011 created more confusion than preparation. Can the Council of State clarify whether users will be given a new dog as promised from all batches?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e607	In my answer on 25 January 2011 to questions about written answer No. 697 from the representative Giltun I explained that the Health and Rehabilitation Foundation from 2001 to 2006 financed two service dog projects of a total of 8 million. in the direction of the Norwegian Blind Federation and the Norwegian Handicap Federation. Dogs from these projects now reach the expected retirement age of a service dog, which has updated the question of continuing these completed projects. Of course, I have noticed the position of the Labour and Social Committee in the matter in connection with the treatment of the State budget for 2011. In my reply to Mr Giltun's representative, I explained that the allocation was on top. 634 item 21 is used to finance several actions, including the service dog experiment, and has the keyword ‘can be transferred’ attached to it. In 2010 there was a total of 71.88 million. kr on this item. Only when there is an overall accounting report with a full overview of consumption or undisposed funds in all measures in 2010 can it be possible to quantify the final sum of undisposed funds that can be transferred to 2011 and allocated to the purchase of replacement dogs. Here I assume that the Storting wants to report transfers from one budget year to the year after that, the Stortinget is usually notified in Notifying. St. 3. I will, when complete accounting figures for 2010, follow up the position of the Labour and Social Committee in the matter with a view to making unused funds available in the 2010 allocation to meet the needs of replacement dogs for the users concerned. This answer is more clear than the representative received in the written reply, and it is the most obvious thing that the Council of State can give at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e625	I thank you for your answer. This made it a little bit clearer. I was afraid that it was the same millions of the project for this year to be used. What the committee has asked for is that three million. kr, i.e. the project funds that were not used last year are used. So that's three million. kr. It does not cover all the eleven users, so I followed it up on my written question by asking if there was any more funds in the revision – because it is important now. It's a unanimous political opinion that it's important that these users get clarity and a certainty that they get new dogs before it's too late. And now it's getting too late for someone, because it takes a long time to train the dogs. Time is starting to run out; it's just questions of time before someone stands without a dog. The result would be that one of the users might have to move to the institution, and another of the users might have to stop working. This is serious, and now the council must give a clear signal that they are being secured new dogs anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e632	I refer to the answer I have given, which I believe far on the way was what was expected and wanted as far as we are now. When it comes to revision, I can't mean anything about it at this point in time. But I've said that when we find out what's left of the funds compared to 2010, I'm going to come up with a case on how this can be used on replacement dogs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e637	I'm not quite satisfied, because it doesn't seem like the Council of State sees these are individuals who are so dependent on these service dogs that there has to be a clearer political signal to, including from the Council of State, about what happens next. Now the committee and the various parties have said very clearly what they mean. It is also believed that there will be a permanent arrangement, but the Council of State does not say anything about this, except to look at the funds from last year. If it turns out that there is not enough money there, I would have expected the council to say something about how to ensure that these users actually got a new dog. For this is not only important for health – they improve their health by getting good help, they come out, they can be at work, and they have a completely different life – but it's also socio-economically profitable; it saves society in other areas in crowns and ears. And then it would be interesting if the council could be a little bit more proactive in relation to what's happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e644	I can promise the representative that I am also concerned about this issue, but I don't think we deserve to make a competition about who is most concerned about this. I am, too. What I have now said, quite unambiguously, is that I am following up on the Committee's comments by saying that, when we receive unsponsored funds, I will apply them to replacement dogs in line with what the Committee has asked for. But with regard to further investment in this area, it is a budgetary issue that I cannot comment on at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e651	We go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e658	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: «At the year's travel life fair in Lillestrøm there was a selection of different destinations. The stand that I think was visited most was the Swedish one who offered nature experiences with snowmobile rides and offers of accommodation, food, guided tours, etc. Why is the government not more in favour of snowmobile driving within a regulatory framework, so that Norwegians do not have to travel to Sweden or Finland to experience this and therefore spend money there that could rather have helped build up this type of tourism industry in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e667	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has the overall responsibility for tourism policy in Norway. However, responsibility for other policies relevant to tourism policy lies with individual departments. The responsibility for the law on motor travel in the outfield lies with the Ministry of the Environment, but since the question has been asked to me, I assume that it is the travel opportunities within this area that are the main concern of the representative. In Norway, we have followed a basic principle of having a restriction on motor travel in the field. It has also been reflected in a regulation on out-of-land scooter driving, and issues related to the level playing field for travel-life businesses in Norway compared to travel-life businesses in our neighbouring countries come from time to time. In Sweden, a slightly different set of principles have been put in place to regulate motor travel abroad than have been done in Norway. In the December 2007 national travel strategy, one of three overall objectives is to make Norway a sustainable destination. The concept of sustainability is made up of environmental, economic and socially sustainable assessments related to tourism businesses. Outland experiences based on scooter driving can quickly come into conflict with outlanding experiences that do not involve motor travel. Here we must have a balance that does not destroy the basis of the strategy we have put forward about natural experiences and a sustainable travel experience. I can answer the representative of Bredvold that the government is in favour of snowmobile driving within a regulatory framework. But the question is rather where to lay down the legislation and how strict it should be. It is the Ministry of the Environment that is responsible for Stortinget. From the travel side, it can be said that getting out and experiencing Norwegian nature is an important part of the travel life strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e678	There wasn't really much positive in this answer, I think. I've asked similar questions to other departments and state councils. This time I thought it was right to put it to Minister Giske. Tourism and tourism are also about getting into nature. There's not every place you can get into nature without having a snowmobile available. This has been understood by the Swedes. They have put up snowmobile guides and runs around, so that you can travel to Sweden and drive snowmobiles and experience nature in an extraordinary way. This makes Swedish people a lot of money. This helps to build up your travel life and those who are engaged in the travel life initiative in Sweden. It is also a great way to get into nature for those who are not so easy to get into nature – those who are sick, disabled or older, or for other reasons have difficulties with this. I cannot believe that the government – in this case the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade – does not look more positive about getting out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e685	It's nice that Bredvold asks several government councils, but he has to assume that from the same government he gets about the same answer, no matter which state council he asks. We have good cooperation between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Environment. We try to balance the different considerations, the consideration of the tourism industry and environmental considerations — including the considerations that exist between different types of tourism industries. It is certainly nice to get out on snowmobiles, but it is also nice to move in undisturbed nature that is not characterized by motor travel. That's this balance we're trying to maintain. So it's not one-sided so that the more motor travel you allow in the field, the better it gets for travel, because it could go beyond other types of travel life activities based on the pristine nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e690	Then I interpret the government to the point that the government is not very positive about the use of snowmobiles in the tourism industry. I understand, of course, that if you ask one government council, you get one answer, and you ask another state council, you get the same answer. But I thought you could cooperate a little bit more, and that the Minister of Industry would look at this with snowmobiles with positive eyes, because that means a lot. It would give so many positive ring-effects for those who are engaged in tourism and travel, for those who are not close to a jumping or skiing hill or an alpine centre. In this way, this would give full-year jobs to many. I'm interpreting to the Council of State that nothing will happen in the case of snowmobiles, and that there has to be a government shift to be more positive in this area. Because you lose a lot of money as it is today. You go abroad and spend a lot of money. This does not only apply to individuals, but there are families who do this. I find it a pity that I get the answer I get, which I interpret as negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e697	First of all, we hope that there are not so many places in Norway where all-year work is provided based on snowmobile driving. I think that's a winter activity. Secondly, if the law on snowmobile driving is the main concern of the representative, then it is the Minister for the Protection of the Environment who is responsible for it. Thirdly, few industries have so many exemptions, exemptions and arrangements for the use of snowmobiles as the travel industry. For even where you have travel life based on the pristine nature, in many cases travel life actors are allowed to transport both tourists, food and equipment to cabins and other places for travel purposes. So there is a balance between the tourism based on the unspoilt nature and that based on motor travel, which we must also take into account in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e710	«In public academic institutions, the proportion of temporary researchers is much higher than in research institutions outside public ownership. The situation appears to be comparable at university hospitals and other research activities organised under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Tora Aasland State Council has started work with a view to identifying and reducing the proportion of temporary in the UH sector. Will the Council of State take the initiative to undertake similar work in the research activities subordinate to the Ministry of Health and Welfare?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e717	It is the government's position that the general rule in working life should be fixed employment and reduced use of temporary employment. The representative, Lien, mentions the use of undesirable temporary additions of researchers in health businesses. I understand that such additions should be kept at a low level. It has been reported that some researchers have been in a temporary position far beyond the expected time period. It's not desirable. I also assume that health companies relate to the rights deriving from Norwegian law. In June 2010, we obtained information on the use of temporary research positions in healthcare companies. According to the four regional health enterprises, health enterprises have relatively few full-time jobs dedicated to research. Most researchers have combined positions between clinic and research. In research, however, it is common, including internationally, to recruit researchers in temporary posts. The reason is that such positions are often externally funded and most often for a time-limited period. Through the business meetings I have asked health care companies to follow up the situation of permanent jobs, part-time and temporary jobs for all employees. The general rule is to use permanent posts and to minimise the use of temporary posts and vicariates. The reporting by regional health companies will provide us with the information we need to follow in the distribution of all types of employment — fixed, part-time and temporary. It also applies to researchers and other scientists. The Ministry of Knowledge has a note for consultation on the use of temporary posts in universities and colleges. The note presents the wish for three measures: Temporary posts shall be reduced The development shall be followed up at the college management meetings Universities and colleges have been asked to review their own practice of reporting to the establishment management meetings In the light of what I said earlier, we have no plans at present for a similar consultation for the health and care sector. The request for regional health enterprises has not revealed that temporary employment of researchers in health enterprises is a major problem. At the same time, I believe that we have taken measures to reduce the level of unwanted temporary jobs by providing regional health companies with governance requirements to follow up the situation. These requirements are in line with the recommendations of the Ministry of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e749	Yes, there was a lot of work to do here. I note that the Council of State consistently uses the term ‘unwanted temporary posts’. It's good to hear that's what reality is. However, I have now noted that the State Council of Aasland has gone further; she also calls it illegal use of temporary posts. It is a paradox that we are increasingly discussing in this Chamber that the state is using illegal temporary posts. Among the members of the Association of Researchers at the University of Oslo, there are 27 employees who are in their third and fourth postdoctoral position – a clearly unwarranted use of such a job home. The private sector of the Institute emphasises the possibility of building generic knowledge in its organisations, thus providing secure employment conditions, despite having a greater degree of external financing. I think it is alarming that the Council of State does not want to do the same job that the Ministry of Knowledge wants to do with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e758	It's precisely because we both did a survey last June and because we have made very clear management requirements in terms of using part-time, which we will reduce by 20 pst. in the current year, in the case of the use of vicariates, which we are to have at least, and in the case of temporary posts, which we are also to have at least because it is to be fixed employment that is the usual. So it's also that sometimes there are research positions that can be externally funded, or it can be a research position for a period. We have to be able to accept that, but it is a very clear premise that this should not happen – I kept saying – with speculation, so that there will be illegal jobs. That's a very clear assumption. Because of these conditions, I have now asked for monthly reporting in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e765	I am pleased that the Council of State intends to follow this matter closely. However, I am of a different opinion regarding the severity of the situation. According to the same investigation that I referred to in the meantime, done by the Research Association, has 22 pst. of all members temporarily employed for more than seven years. There are 43 employees who are in their second period as a postdoctoral doctor, and 27 are in their third or fourth period as a postdoctoral doctor, which is not the intention of the postdoctoral institute. The paradox is that cancer research is particularly important – one of the most important areas of competence we have in Norway, regardless of discipline – that this is a major problem. The argument that external funding itself would make shorter positions necessary, I do not buy, for the construction of generic knowledge is important independent of the financing of individual projects. This can therefore be achieved in other sectors with 90-95 pst. external financing. Does the Council of State feel that the situation today is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e774	If everything was acceptable, I wouldn't have done anything about it. However, I have just made strict management requirements for this with the use of vicariates, temporary posts and, as I said, part-time – to reduce part-time time, which is a major concern in the health and care sector because it is such a large proportion of part-time jobs, which is absolutely not desirable. In addition, last year I took an initiative to reduce education positions in healthcare companies from temporary jobs — especially in medical positions — to ensure that permanent employment is as much as possible. It's working on it now. Very often, this type of job is combined with research positions. If it is the case that someone goes over the years in temporary research positions, this should not be the case, but it is precisely here that there is also a point to get rotation in the positions, so that more people can specialise and participate in the build-up of competences that takes place in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e785	‘NRK Finnmark reports on 24 January 2011 that Alcoa, the world’s largest aluminium producer, will build a melting plant worth SEK 15 billion in Finnmark. It can provide up to 500 jobs and be powered by Snow White gas. So the project is going to be quite similar to Hydro's work in Qatar. The government’s CO2 clean-up requirements give Alcoa stricter and more costly framework conditions in Norway than in competing countries, while location in Norway does not affect global CO2 emissions. Will the government review the conditions so that the industry can develop in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e798	Let me first say – without knowing the details of this project – that of course it is only positive if a large company like Alcoa wants to establish itself in Norway. I do not know the premises for this and the underlying assumptions, and some of them will not be under my responsibility either. But of course, a large company like Alcoa – like everyone else who wants to invest in Norway, whether Norwegian or international – must adapt to the legislation in force in Norway. This applies to compensation of employees, to environmental conditions and to all other prerequisites for investing in Norway, including Norwegian climate policy. The Soria Moria Declaration, which underpins the government’s work, states that ‘all new gas power concessions shall be based on the clean-up and deposition of CO2 at take-off’. This is an ambitious Norwegian climate policy behind six parties in the Stortinget. The potential government partner of the Progress Party even boasts that they have contributed to strengthening this policy and want to further strengthen it, so it is a broad majority in Norway that we should reduce our emissions. It is then difficult to imagine that it should be possible, if we were to relax the view that gas power plants must be based on cleaning. We have an ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. by 2020. It is considered realistic that two thirds of the reductions should take place nationally. This implies a need for national emission reductions in the range of 12-14 million tonnes up to 2020. During the fall, I will present a message to the Stortinget that explains how the government will meet these ambitious goals. But I think I can already now establish that it is not possible to achieve these goals without a broad-based policy that includes transportation, which includes oil and gas, but also includes significant reductions from land-based industry. In a world with a global climate crisis, where all countries have to contribute in their own way, it is not forward-looking to ease environmental conditions in order to attract investment to Norway. Anyone who wants to invest in Norway, Norwegian as a foreigner, must adapt to the ambitious environmental objectives set by a dwindling majority in the UK.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e812	The challenge here is that ‘a dwindling majority’ has adopted framework conditions which simply means moving emissions and not cutting emissions. In this specific case, where Alcoa has sent his Norwegian director on a trip to Finnmark to talk to state politicians, the director says that yes, we want to invest in this, but we need framework conditions that allow one to invest in Norway with the same CO2 costs as one has in other countries. We're talking about using Norwegian Snow White gas, so that the CO2 emissions are globally unchanged from a building in Finnmark, or about a transporting the Snow White gas on ships to Germany, England, the United States, or where it should be, and building a similar facility. In fact, global CO2 emissions will be less if one does so in Norway, because one drops the process of cooling down the gas and then heat it up again. This means that one gets lower emissions overall if one establishes an aluminium plant in Norway, which in any case will be built somewhere. The question then is: does the Council of State think it is right that Norway is trying to achieve its emissions targets, which result in greater global emissions as a consequence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e828	It is my responsibility to manage what all the parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, have said, that we must have substantial domestic reductions. In the favorable situation, the party of progress is that one day one can say that one agrees with these goals, and the next day that one does not agree with them. This makes it absolutely impossible to know, and then there is no framework for policy. All six other parties have ambitious targets for reductions in Norway. They simply can't be achieved if you make exceptions every time for companies that want to increase emissions. In my time in politics, I have seen a series of proposals all year round to ease environmental requirements in Norway in order to attract industry and industry to Norway. Fortunately, that's something the Storting has avoided over many decades. We have kept up and gradually improved our environmental conditions for a long, long time, despite the fact that there has been the kind of attempt to find exemptions that may be beneficial in each case, but which in the long run undermine the environmental objectives, and to the seventh and ultimately also undermine Norwegian industry, which is best served with strict environmental objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e833	Then there is just a quick question back, and it is: Does the Council of State think that the industry in Norway is strengthened by the fact that one cannot invest in new industrial activities in Norway, as is the government's policy? So Alcoa can't invest 15 billion. kr and thus build up the aluminium environment in Norway. The Ironman project, which is another, must not invest in Norway with its melting plant; they must leave the country. This means that it is the best available technology that would have been invested in Norway, but the engineering environments that exist must leave the country. This means that there are other countries that are getting their clusters strengthened, not Norway. In fact, when a decision is taken in Stortinget, which then turns out to have consequences that actually reduce Norwegian competitiveness, Norwegian business environments and the ability of the engineering community to contribute to finding future solutions, one does not want to improve the environment either. I agree that if you go along with local environmental conditions, you have to be strict. But this is a global thing, in which one should have global agreements and not national targets, in the opinion of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e840	It's a little strange to hear the Progress Party, which has been a liberalist party every year and always talked so negatively about investment abroad. It's a good and positive thing that a company like Hydro invests in Qatar and that Norwegian companies invest a lot abroad. We have the world's lowest unemployment, and this contributes to a better global economy, and to the seventh and last it also serves us. With regard to the environment, I am of the firm belief that it is a bear service to Norwegian business to lower environmental standards. It's a bunch of examples in this area, where you can imagine lowering the environmental standard in this particular area to get to an investment. In the long run, this is a bear service to Norwegian business, because strict environmental standards drive technological change and allow Norwegian business to be at the forefront of international competition. So it's an advantage, also economical as well as environmental, to have strict environmental standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e851	‘In the class struggle on 8 January, we can read that the Council of State has stated that the government will not cable for aesthetic reasons, only if necessary for reasons of natural diversity. At the same time, he confirms that there are aesthetic considerations in the Sima-Samnanger case. If the Council of State considers Hardanger to be only about aesthetic considerations, can this be interpreted in any way other than that the Council of State has already concluded on this matter before the selections have at all submitted their reports?’ Now they have submitted their reports after I asked this question, but I assume the question is relevant anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e860	The government has a clear objective of a robust security of power supply as well as equal and predictable prices of electricity across the country. At the same time, we have ambitious targets for the development of our renewable energy and climate policy. We will not avoid significantly strengthening and upgrading the electricity supply system, and we must therefore accept to see installations for the production and transmission of electricity. Having said that, I am pleased that the representative Skei Grande has asked me this question, as it gives me an opportunity to repeat the point of view I expressed in relation to Nature and the National Meeting of Youth on 6 January. At that meeting I was asked how I balanced the relationship between natural diversity and aesthetic considerations. In this respect, I did not say that aesthetic considerations should be ignored, but that biodiversity considerations should weigh more heavily. In any case, any decision on increased powertrains will have to include an assessment of several considerations, which in each case must be balanced against each other – they are already mentioned, but also costs, progress and local needs. As regards the power line case in Hardanger, I would like to point out that last year the department took a decision on the complaint. Afterwards, we reduced four external samples to address different issues of the sea cable option, and the reports from these samples we received as known yesterday. I can assure the representative that we will now carefully assess the content of these reports in the context of the political assessment of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e869	Then I have to be absolutely sure that I interpreted the Council of States correctly, because that means that he does not refuse to use aesthetics as an argument in this case, that aesthetics is actually one of the big arguments to protect Hardanger. Then there's a balance between price, speed and the other things can weigh up to preserving the aesthetics of a type of area that Hardanger is – an important part of our common natural heritage. I have to say that I think the government council yesterday moderated a little bit what stood in the class struggle, and to which I refer in the question, that aesthetics also have a value, sail if it can't always be measured in money. The Prime Minister has said in this case that this is not a money question. I therefore assume that aesthetics also have a value in the government's assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e874	I believe I can confirm the content of the representative Skei Grande now said. I think it was a pretty good description of the relationship to aesthetics in these questions. It is part of what needs to be on the basis of which to consider issues within the energy sector — it is power generation plants or power transmission plants. As the representative Skei Grande correctly says, I also said on various TV debates yesterday evening that when it comes to the issue of sea cable or line running in Hardanger, there is a legitimate argument when someone believes that the requirement for aesthetics suggests that one should try to find other solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e879	Esthetics have a value in our lives. That's why we clean up our houses, and that's why we go on vacation to different places that we think are beautiful. But it's hard to put a price on it. In particular, it's hard to appreciate natural experiences, how to value them. The Prime Minister said in the Official Journal of Bergen on 18 July 2010: ‘This is not a money question. A sea cable would not burden the state budget with one ear. The entire bill would be taken by the electricity customers through the mains. But a sea cable would not provide the necessary security of supply because an error may take months to repair, while we are talking about hours for lines in the air. Sea cable risk would be too high.» With the report we received yesterday, it is clear that the risk is not as great as the Prime Minister is afraid. When there is no price question, as the Prime Minister said in July, the arguments of the government begin to collapse. So then my question is, isn't it clear that the Prime Minister was wrong in his assessment in his opinions in July, with the new reports yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e891	It's interesting interpretations. Firstly, this case is not a money issue in the sense that there are budgetary appropriations for this. There will be costs allocated to online customers among consumers in Norway. So it's not a balance in the annual budgetary processes that decide such a case. When it comes to time, I believe that the reports that were submitted yesterday show a few things very clearly. One is that there is a need to do something about the power supply in the Bergens region. The longer we wait, the greater the challenges we get, the price and the need for various temporary measures to ensure that people in Bergen have a secure power supply in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e903	‘In VG 3 December 2010, the Prime Minister said that ‘there will no longer be a commitment to large-scale industrial projects without in addition adding electricity to the project’. Can the Council of State ensure that this does not mean that large new industrial projects such as Ironman, further expansion of the Worm Lange, Snow White etc. will be stopped, but that this objective is achieved primarily by means of power policy instruments, in particular by assessing new gas and hydropower projects, and, if necessary, by new grid deployment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e910	Facilitating the electrification of new projects on the continental shelf is an important element of government energy policy. Important installations have gained power from land. Central land facilities are also fully or partially electrified. However, it is important that electrification does not lead to increased regional imbalances in the power market. For the government, the main objective is to ensure predictable and stable electricity prices throughout the country. The government will therefore not propose to implement measures that may result in increased and long-term differences. I therefore fully agree with the assessments of the conditions for the supply of installations on the continental shelf with the power of the Prime Minister in VG on December 3rd last year. It is a prerequisite for electrification that there can be no significant adverse effects on the shore-based power system. As the Prime Minister also stressed in this interview, electrification on the pedestal should mean that at the same time either new power is built up or sufficient grid capacity is passed on. In my opinion, the experience of the expansion of the Worm Lange is illustrated, and then towards the power situation in Middle Norway. However, the government attaches great importance to facilitating new major projects and to ensuring adequate power. It is part of the background that the government has put a lot of effort into improving security of supply — a daily discussion. Under this government, both the production of renewable energy has increased significantly and the investments in networks have been significantly higher than in the past. In the case of new large consumption units, a solid power grid is particularly important, and I refer in this connection to Statnet’s network development plan. However, if power from land is to be an appropriate measure and an appropriate solution, there is still a need to assess concretely on a case-by-case basis, such as: did in connection with the Goliath expansion off the Finnmark coast. This will also apply to any increased supply of electricity to new projects in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e921	Thank you for a general answer. Then there are some specific issues that I would like to challenge the Council of State. In Finnmark – I just addressed it in a question-time question to Erik Solheim – Alcoa plans an aluminium mill with a significant need for power. So today's government says no that Alcoa can build a plant in Finnmark similar to what Hydro has built in Qatar, despite the fact that the Minister of Energy himself was involved and opened it in Qatar and was proud of that. So the question is, is there any chance that Alcoa can meet the power needs they have, in any other way, with today's policies? Similarly, for Ironman in Central Norway, there will be a need for power where there will be CO2 emissions that the government cannot deal with today's policy. Then there is Industrial Power Møre, who wants to build gas power plants with Siemens cleaning technology, and who get no answers or promises from the government about how to deal with CO2 that is being purified, and how to deal with the economy in this regard in relation to other competing projects. How does one deal with such concrete issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e936	I believe that in this area the policy – I would say – is very clear. At the same time, during the last gas concession treatment in Norway, it was said that no gas power plant concessions will be granted in Norway without future clean-up. So there is a clear policy in this area, and the basis for this policy is, of course, enshrined in the Stortinget. The targets we have set to reduce CO2 emissions in Norway by about 15 million tonnes of CO2 means that we need to reduce emissions from point sources and we need to reduce emissions elsewhere. It is an ambitious goal set by the Storting, and it also requires the willingness to follow it up through individual projects, through individual decisions. We have a big job ahead of us. It will be made concrete by the climate announcement that Stortinget will be presented later this year. We will then come up with our proposals on how to reduce and not increase CO2 emissions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e950	This is more than just a gas power plant. Gas-fired power plants are easy to illustrate, where one can choose where the power source should be, but there is CO2 emissions. But when the Council of State says that the policy here is very clear, it is sadly so, because the answer is a very clear no to all major industrial projects in Norway today. That's very regrettable, because it doesn't help build the country and make sure we have something to live on in addition to the oil. I hope then that the Council of State can draw up some good cards from the sleeve that show how these industrial companies will be able to establish themselves in Norway, while at the same time ensuring the power situation in the region through major point power plants, to call it that. If we are to wait for Statnett's network development plan, a lot of these investments will go elsewhere, and it is also not possible to build enough small-scale power plants in a region to operate neither the Alcoa aluminium plant nor the Ironman project, to mention two examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e958	I realized that the representative Solvik-Olsen is concerned about being concrete, and I can be. I believe that the government's work to ensure a better web policy and secure concrete network projects in Norway is an example of this. It is probably not many hours since the representative Solvik-Olsen and I were in debate about such a concrete project, and I realized that the representative Solvik-Olsen's answer to that was to assess and push on these projects and look at new investigations and assessments. I believe that for industrial development in Norway and in order to ensure stable business environment in the future, network development, the development of new power projects in hydropower, wind power, energy efficiency and increased use of heat for heating Norwegian houses instead of electricity are important measures that release power, reinvigorate the market, and then provide the stability on which industry depends.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e963	An obvious misunderstanding – I don't want to push projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e968	To the representative – Question Time is over. Question 10 has been answered earlier. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-02.ana.ud2595e983	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. If the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, now wishes to speak, that is the reason. No one has asked for the floor. The meeting has been cancelled.
