ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e53	The representative of Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e56	On behalf of Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Per Sandberg, Åse Michaelsen, Anders Anundsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to amend the Court Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e61	The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e64	On behalf of the major representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Ib Thomsen and the undersigned, I would like to make a proposal for a new key for distribution of the tipping agents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e69	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e83	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to a change of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e94	Today, the Justice Committee has a happy message to deliver to the Stortinget. We've had excellent cooperation on an attitude about organized crime, where the Storting gathers around most of it. It gives greater impact to increase the strength of the fight against organised crime. It's not about spontaneous acts that can be carried out in rushes, jealousy, etc., but it's about planned, cynical crime carried out by networks that often have money and power as a goal. We know some of these environments in Norway, which have been followed for a long time. I can mention the MCs – or what is called the one percent gang among the MC criminals – the A and B gangs and the Young Guns in Oslo and various other specific groupings. But we have also seen in recent years that there are new environments, especially in the area of economic crime – new groups that cross borders, i.e. mobile profit-criminals, other international criminal environments. There may be people who have illegal residence that cross borders, which we have more difficulty in getting an overview of how organised crime is conducted. What we can say, however, is that there are some new developments in organized crime. First, they're looking more systematically for where it's most profitable, with the lowest risk, and where it's easiest to jump over the fence. I believe that we will therefore also see fewer of the type of NOKAS-ran – of the kind of extensive, demanding and risky actions – in the future as well as ever new, other forms of crime. In particular – as we have seen in the Committee’s work – they target new, diverse forms of financial crime, different forms of data/ cybercrime, but we also see the renewal and professionalisation of known forms of crime, such as trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, extortion, etc. What is also a special feature is that organised crime is becoming more and more international — crossing borders — not just having a local foothold. One last feature that I would also like to stress is that in crime, whether it operates within new worlds, within cybercrime and within economic crime, there are still strong threat images, extreme use of violence and reprisals, at the bottom to achieve a purpose. Because this threat picture is so strong, it's important to look at how we can best attack, best to repel, the organized crime. At that time, the Committee has placed a great deal of emphasis on the very objective of crime, namely the economic benefit – the economic part of crime – because it is easier to find concrete things to deal with, without being dependent on witnesses, etc. Organized economic crime has in common that the money, generally at least, has to be laundered in order to make use of it. The Committee has focused on many of the new channels for money laundering. It's all about everything from the securities market, property investments and the restaurant business to client accounts, where we see that Skattenkrim has shown that only from seven large law firms have gone 7.5 billion. kr to and from tax havens of one year or two. We see that tax crime is evolving. We also see that when you get hold of a little tab, you can often make up big issues if you take these financial crime issues seriously. For example, the taxi business taxi business is a big deal in this way. And we see that there are new actors. The Communication mentions the “Aker Brygge” environment, which is a specialist and expert in carrying out the type of money laundering, fraud, organising loans in black markets and also operating as investors in stock markets and property markets, etc. in this grey zone. We have also seen that cheaters develop environments on the inside of financial institutions, which can assist in their implementation. Among other things, in the Nordea case, we have seen a strong example of the use of cheating servants. We see that Ecocrim and others are facing very strong resources when they try to bring these cases to justice, and we see that we need new methods to develop evidence. The method that Ecocrim has now used is called the ASK system, a system to organise what is given tips about suspicious transactions from banks, the stock exchange and financial corporations. It's a legal obligation to report suspicious transactions, but we see that some of the financial institutions, like brokers or law firms, give very little tips to Ecocrim about this kind of transaction so that you can track the tracks. We see that, within this type of economic crime, the storage of traffic data will be of great importance because, for example, when researching traffic data is to be carried out. insider dealing, there are only actual tracks related to communication with which you can provide advice on insider dealing. The Committee would also like to address legislative changes to the legislation on withdrawal. We want the rules of withdrawal to start running after the penalty has been measured, so that you can't spend long sentences just sitting and counting on getting out the money you've hidden away. Today's withdrawal time is five years, and in exceptional cases 10 years. We want to change the rules on client access – the possibilities of transparency for tax authorities in the client accounts of law firms – in order not to be one-sided black holes to hide away money, and we want to change the obligation of professional secrecy in order to achieve better cooperation between all the controls to pursue these economic tracks. Data crime is also the starting point of the Committee's new proposals, which are also included in the Communication, on how to attack the new data crime, which takes many forms – and new forms almost monthly or yearly – in terms of how to steal identity, how to obtain bank account information, how to implement frauds, skimmings, etc. Only in the case of shimmering crimes have you calculated that you make at least 300 million. kr in Norway per year. Data crime is also used to develop new forms of old crime in drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, building hallucinogenic sites, terrorist recruitment, spreading child pornography, and everything the Storting knows. There is also a great danger – as we have seen examples – that cybercrime is being used to attack infrastructure and financial institutions in a very serious way. The Committee points to the need for better coordination and greater strength in this work and has drawn up a note on the establishment of a national cyber centre and the establishment of an advisory group against the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Police on cybercrime. The Progress Party also supports proposals to this effect. I would like to make a pious wish that the Progress Party will re-submit those proposals for transmission proposals, because we have written together about it in the vote. We also have a strong focus on how to impose stricter penalties on serious organised crime, and will therefore amend Section 60a, the so-called organised crime paragraph, so that it can cover more of what is actually organised crime, but which has more flexible organisational forms today than the hierarchical structure required to practice this law. We also want to protect informants better, so that they can be sure of what will be included in the case's documents, what the counterparty should be transparent about, what they can give of tips to the police without risking life or strong reprisals, that information that is not used for evidence and that can be delimited as to what the counterparty is given access to. There are many other big questions that we'll get back to in the debate. This is how police resources are coordinated through an enhanced coordination body, through the creation of intervention forces. There are slightly different views within the Committee on how to build it up, and how to change the police measurement criteria to work better against organised crime, etc. But all in all, we have a positive and strong common attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e136	It'll give rise to a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e139	The new organised crime requires a number of new competences in the police. Then it is important that you start thinking about new things in the recruitment work, and that you look at recruiting in professional environments that the police need, for example. economists, auditors, engineers, etc. Then there's an opportunity to give the floor an acute competence. The police can then train people and give them a training course that is adapted to the job they are going to do, so that after a relatively short period of time they get into service. Is the Labour Party prepared to participate in such recruitment work within the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e146	Yes, to the most extent. In 2009, we have worked exceptionally 440 new civilians. We have set up a course at the Police College to give them competence in how to operate within the police, and so that they can also be assigned limited police authorities. We have made a plan for the police towards 2020 where there will be 1000 new ones with civil competence in the police, so I agree that there will be a comprehensive effort. This initiative – the plan put forward towards 2020 in relation to the Jafs we have already taken with regard to the objective – may well be stepped up, and we can do more when we see the great need, especially in the area I was very concerned about now, data crime and economic crime, where we just need the kind of competence that the questioner mentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e151	The case rapporteur gave a good review of the case, insofar as 10 minutes is sufficient at all to present such a comprehensive case. I understand that time can be scarce. One of the key actions of the strategies put forward in the Single European Act is precisely to coordinate public action and also to contribute to the role of business in combating organised crime. The situation is that we have a great deal of competence and knowledge in the public sector — in the justice sector — but we need to coordinate it better in order to solve the problems and win the fight against organised crime. Then also the anchoring of the strategies we adopt by Stortinget with this big message will be important. Then is my question to the case rapporteur: What are his thoughts about how to achieve the coordination and the anchoring needed to translate the strategy into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e158	This is a very important question. The Enterprise Security Council is an active organisation, which takes many initiatives and has made very important contributions, including: at our hearing in the committee. One of the actions highlighted in the Single European Act Communication is that we want to create a new form of cooperation forum – an operational cooperation forum between the business community and the Police Directorate, Kripos and the judicial authorities. It is absolutely necessary, because I had a meeting with the Social Security Council last week, which describes that the forum is ok, and it is fine also when the police meet with their representatives there, but there is a need for more operational, ongoing work, where you can take care of things that appear, in a more direct way than you get now. So I think the question is very good, and I think we should get back to it in the work on organized crime in all ways, because we see, for example. notifications of suspicious transactions. We rely on active commitment to do so in those institutions that do not contribute well enough today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e163	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e166	It is an important matter we have to deal with today – Report. St. 7 for 2010–2011 The fight against organised crime – and that is what concerns Norway as a whole, and all its inhabitants in Norway. I would like to take the opportunity to commend the rapporteur for the thorough work he has done, and at the same time that he has also been open to the opposition, and was willing to include many of the opposition's comments in joint comments, so that there is an overall committee that is behind most of the issues that are now being put forward. It means that the case gets a much greater weight, and a much greater credibility in the population as well. So all praise to the case rapporteur for the job that has been done. Organised crime is international. It knows no borders. It has no county boundaries, no municipal borders and at least no police district borders. The criminals are well organized. They do this for economic gain, and they do it because they want to gain power through economics. These groups, which come to Norway from among others: Eastern Europe, are mobile criminals. They operate across county borders and across police districts, and they are fast. They carry out their breaks, disappear to the next district and continue the runway there. It's hard to track them, and the police are actually doing a good job today to get these taken. But more coordination is needed to cope. Coordination between police districts is a crossroads, and in order for us to do so, the Progress Party believes that we need to reorganise the police districts – that is, organize the districts in a completely different way. Today we have 27 police districts in Norway, which are partly unable to cooperate in a good way. We have started some projects, including: Borderless, which shows that cooperation between districts works in an excellent way. This is what the Progress Party wants to do. We want to merge more police districts, we need no more than between five and ten police districts in Norway. If these between five and ten districts can cooperate in a good way, we believe that much is being done to solve a lot of organized crime. What is also important is the cooperation between police and customs. It's the customs office that's often the first instance, and it discovers some of the criminal elements that come in. They are the first instance to take those who run with, among other things. smuggling, and good cooperation between customs and police is important. It turns out that in some cases customs authorities lack effective tools to do their job in a good enough way. The Progress Party would like to see a limited police authority for the part of the customs authorities, including: have the possibility to pull out with blue lights in order to pursue persons who do not wish to stop for control at the discretion of the customs authorities. It has been shown in some cases that the customs authorities have driven after people who have not been willing to stop, and tried to stop them by waving a light or lamp, on which these persons have, of course, gone on. They have no obligation to stop for someone who comes and blows with a flashlight. Some cases also show that those who have tried to run away, which has thus gone on, have not been criminals at all, but have been in the belief that the customs person who stood and waved with the flashlight was one who was going to engage in highway robbery. It is clear that when customs authorities are perceived as highway robbers, then we have a problem. And that problem and that challenge we should take seriously and give customs the opportunity to move out with limited police authorities. We must allow them to use blue lights, so that they can stop these people safely and in a good way – not least in a safe way for the other road users who are on the road at the same time. As I said, some of the criminals who come to Norway to commit crime come from Eastern Europe, from countries with some significantly lower living standards than we have here. They come to Norway to commit crime because it's easy to do it. What they do is assess the risk of being taken and the penalties they may receive if they are to be taken and the conditions under which they are to be taken. The risk of getting caught isn't too great, the punishments aren't very high, but the settlements, on the other hand, are very good. It is a clear incentive for these people from Eastern Europe to come to Norway to pursue their crime, when the risk of being caught is low, the benefits they can get from crime are high, the punishment is low, and the settlement conditions are better than in a normal dwelling in the countries from which they come, while they, while in prison, receive financial benefits that are roughly like average wages in the country from which they come. In this way, it is not particularly risky to come to Norway and commit crime. There are police officers in Latvia who say that as long as we have the settlement conditions we have in Norway, the Eastern European criminals will never stop coming to Norway for crime. They are also encouraged to do so. It is also important when we are going to do something about organized crime, that we have a targeted response to it. The Progress Party has proposed the creation of a separate entity with the overall responsibility for investigating and coordinating organised crime. It might be an idea to organize this in the same way that the police security service is organized, without comparison, where we have a central unit with the primary responsibility, and that we have units out in the five to ten districts that the Progress Party wants us to have. They shall have special competence in their field of competence. They shall have the competence and impact to enable them to investigate this crime, to cooperate with neighbouring districts, to have the opportunity to do something there and then, and not least to have the economy to do so. This unit must then be financed in such a way that it does not charge the ordinary budgets of the police district from which they are from, so that they have the opportunity, as I said, to make this independent of the economy of the police district from which they are from. We see today that things that have to do with organized crime are often thrown into police districts. No police districts will take responsibility for the investigation, because it is so resource-intensive that they will not have the opportunity to investigate other crimes later. So it's important, I think, to look at organized crime as a special part of crime, and that the investigation and resolution of such crime is economically independent of the economy that the police districts otherwise have. There has also been talk of recruiting the police. It is important that the police get the people they need in order to solve the issues they are investigating. But it doesn't help if they just get the key personnel, there also need to be enough staff to be able to investigate matters. We aim to have in the police a number of two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants, but it was worrying when we heard the Minister of Justice say for a while back that if we are to recruit more police officers, some people have to retire or otherwise end. Then I have trouble getting my math to go up, because if someone has to stop or retire to hire more police students, we will never, in my opinion, be able to achieve two per 1,000. So I think there are a lot of tools that can be used against organized crime. But the most important thing is that we, as politicians, can agree on large parts of this. The representative, Mr Bøhler, asked if it was possible to turn the two proposals on cybercrime into transmission proposals. Of course, the Progress Party agrees. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e192	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e198	The representative of Ørsal Johansen spent some time at the customs authorities in his post. In the setting, the Progress Party states that resources for customs duties should be increased. We are hearing new tones here, and this is a clear breach of the line that the Progress Party has been leading in all budgetary years from 2006 until today. To date, in its alternative budgets, the Progress Party has proposed major and dramatic cuts in the Customs and Fee Setaten – significant cuts that would have had a significant impact on the fight against, among others. organised crime. Does the comment in today's position indicate that the Progress Party will change its policy in this area of action and, in line with the comment, propose to increase the allocation of the customs tariff in 2012? Or is this just once again empty words from the Advancement Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e205	These are not empty words from the Party of Advancement. We want – and have always wanted – the job done by the customs office to solve crime to be put on and increased. When the Progress Party in its budgets proposes cut, as the representative rightly says, in the Customs and Fee Set, the Progress Party believes that the Customs and Fee Setaten is also one of the agencies that can be more efficient in doing a better job. It is also possible to cut part of the appropriations allocated to the Customs and Fee Seat. Because, as I said, efficiency in the public sector is a main objective, and I think there are great opportunities to cope with the efficiency of the customs and tax haven, as in other public sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e210	It is interesting to hear from the representative Ørsal Johansen that the customs duty rate can be made more effective by giving it less money to do a better job, but that you can't do it with the police. We simply note that. Then I have a question for the representative Ørsal Johansen. It is the way that the representative Ørsal Johansen and the Progress Party have been very optimistic about – we are all – the fight against mobile criminals coming from the Baltic countries and celebrating across the country, making life miserable for very many people, and spreading insecurity and anxiety. The police officer aired the last thought that Schengen cooperation had to be taken into account for a serious assessment. This means that they are actually saying that the border control should be reintroduced. Does the Progress Party share this idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e217	First of all, when the representative Chaudhry says that the Progress Party will not – and cannot – streamline the police, it is with respect that customs should be notified. Police can also be effectively streamlined. But as with the organization that the police have today, they need money and resources to do the job they're going to do. Until the Progress Party gets an impact on its way to organise the police, we are attached to providing the police with the means they need to do a good job. With regard to Schengen cooperation, the Progress Party has been reasonably clear that the border control we have today is not a satisfactory way of controlling the border. The Progress Party is concerned that we should be able to strengthen the control of the border. We have also said that the internal borders of Schengen must be able to be controlled more effectively than what is being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e224	I agree with the representative that when we reassemble a setting, it reinforces the setting. Traffic data storage is an important tool for the police to fight serious crime. We have many examples of data storage leading to clarification, apprehension and conviction. We also record that burglaries, especially in Oslo. The police control of the telephone usage of criminals gets a lot of credit for this. Thus, the Progress Party, which is opposed to the Data Storage Directive, stands out from all the assessments made by both the police and prosecution authorities. Does not the Progress Party see that this is a very important venture to effectively fight serious crime, or does the Progress Party not trust these professional assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e231	Whether the storage of traffic data has been the most effective way to solve crime can well be discussed. The EU evaluation does not provide a very clear picture that data storage and phone storage have been as effective as hoped. I think we'll take it with a little pinch of salt. In the case of telecontrol, as the representative mentions, the Progress Party is concerned that the police should have the opportunities they can afford, among other things. operating telephone interception and surveillance of the computer network related to suspected persons in a much better way than they are doing today. Such monitoring is much more effective than the storage of data by all residents in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e238	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e241	Crime challenges are increasing. Reports, analyses and research all point in the same direction, namely that crime is better organised, more advanced and increasingly cross-border — in other words, organised crime is increasing. Therefore, for a long time and through several proposals, the Right has called for a comprehensive, overall and coordinated government strategy to meet these challenges. That is why the Right wishes to welcome this big message. We would have liked it to have arrived earlier, but now that we finally have the message on the table, we will from the Right praise those who have worked on it and thus contribute to us now having an important tool in place in the fight against organized crime. An overall strategy is the foundation for hard, targeted work over time to deliver the results we want. In the opinion of the Right, the Storing Message is just contributing to this. The fight against organised crime must take place on many fronts. It is demanding, and it will take time for the results of society's efforts to become visible. As a result, the Right has placed great emphasis on helping to maximise the political commitment to the strategies proposed. We think it's an important signal in itself when the Storting gathers to face organized crime in this way. And we think it will help to give the fight greater weight, and thus also help us get the results we all want. In line with the previous speakers, I would also like to commend the rapporteur for the work he has put into this matter. It is an inviting and open form of work that has in itself contributed to a good result. Organized crime is a social problem, especially for two reasons. Firstly, of course, crime itself is a major problem. And secondly, we see that in parts of these criminal environments shadow societies are established on the side of democracy, which live by their own rules that they override the rules of democratic society. We hear from the police that organized crime is growing into the legitimate business life of Norway. We see an increasing black economy linked to organized crime. These conditions are also behind the fact that last year the Riksrevision strongly criticised the police’s efforts against organised crime. This is an offensive response and the approach of the Right is based on three fundamental pillars in the fight against organised crime. Firstly, we need to have a broad societal effort against organised crime – the police cannot solve this entirely by themselves. Secondly, we need to have a strategy that is more and more marked by following the flow of money and attacking the driving forces behind organized crime. The third and last factor for the Right is that broad work is needed to prevent organised crime. I would like to take some of the specific measures covered by the Storing Communication. There is a great deal of emphasis on the need for public authorities to cooperate much better than they do today. Police and prosecution authorities have a key function, but also tax authorities, municipalities and Nav can be mentioned among others who also have a responsibility, as well as the involvement of business itself in the fight against organised crime. Each of these has a responsibility to contribute. Strengthening the cooperation body is important in this context. At the same time, the Right would strongly stress that the Ministry of Justice and Political Affairs have the overall responsibility for the functioning of this coordination and that it is clearly anchored in the relevant departments. Attacking the flow of money from criminal activity is the same as attacking the very lifeblood of organized crime. Increased efforts in this area will therefore be one of the prerequisites for our success. Possibilities for monitoring illegal cash flows, the establishment of methods and tools to prevent money laundering and increased powers to withdraw dividends from criminal activities can be mentioned. The right would stress that economic crime must be combated jointly by several authorities. A clear division of responsibilities between them will result in more targeted and effective work. The right assumes that the coordination and responsibilities between, in particular, Ecocrime, the police district ecoteam and the tax authorities are clarified. I also want to mention that Nav has a role in this picture. Earlier this week we heard at the NRK Focus at 37 million. kr in social security has been paid to Hells Angels members in recent years. Not illegal in itself, of course, but there may be reason to take a closer look at this when Kripos simultaneously refers to the one-percent-MC environment as one of the best organised criminal networks in the country. Just one per cent of theMCs are increasing throughout the country. There are environments that actively use violence and fear, both to create discipline within the environment and to create work space externally. There is reason to praise the KS, formerly the Municipalities' Central Association, for their attitude towards just one percent of the environment. This means raising the awareness of municipalities, and it will be an example of making the important role of municipalities visible in the fight against organised crime by helping municipalities to prevent naivety and what part of these criminal environments represent, by using their role as building authority, as a licensing authority and all the other different roles of municipalities, precisely in the fight for a safer society. Data crime and cybersecurity are also mentioned in the main message. There is hardly any international conflict in these days that is not followed by any form of data attack. Of course, it has an international dimension, but it also has a national dimension, because it makes just how vulnerable we are to unsafe computer systems. This points to the need to strengthen and improve the Committee as a whole, and it is very pleased with the right. The right will also point out that, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, a balanced agreement was put in place to ensure the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in the country in a balanced way between crime prevention and privacy. Information and information security are also at the heart of the Committee's work. The right and the committee have taken note of the plain warning given by the national lawyer that we are putting too little emphasis on the legal area, which is not enough to ensure the safety of informants. It is an attack on the legal state itself and on democratic principles when witnesses and informants do not feel that their security has been safeguarded and thus cannot, wish and dare to contribute to the detection of serious crime. The right will underline what is stated in the remarks on the matter that we are meeting, quickly, a proposal for a change in the law that strengthens that very relationship. The right will also point to the need for Kripos to be given increased resources to increase their efforts against organised crime. We're pointing out that Kripos needs to increase operational capacity, and we're referring in particular to the creation of a separate inspection unit at Kripos, so that they get an extra tool, which they have to borrow from others today, that is. Oslo Police District, when they're going to carry out the important task of fighting organized crime. The right will come back to that point later. International cooperation is crucial for the judiciary in combating organised crime. All reports have indicated that this is an international phenomenon. We can do a lot of important work nationally, but it is important that the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the police authorities facilitate the best possible international cooperation, the best possible coordination and the best possible flow of information across borders in the fight against this crime. I would also like to take this opportunity to say, and it is clear from the big news that Norway is the first of the Nordic countries to present a strategy to combat organised crime. The right will take the opportunity to congratulate the ministry on that. It shows that we're in the forefront, and we from the Right want to contribute to that being good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e283	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e286	I believe that the Right agrees with us that a national operational force is not the right tool to fight organised crime – contrary to what the representative Octay Dahl said to Dagbladet on 11 May last year. It says: ‘He wishes to establish his own operational response force under the auspices of Kripos to combat the organised crimes in Norway.’ The Labour Party believes that it is important that competence exists in the districts, because organised crime finds its place there. Can I now see that a national effort force was only high-thinking from the representative Octay Dahl and not from the Right, as the Right now does not support the comments of the Progress Party in this area? I'm a little insecure – on the basis of the post of the representative – on what Right really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e296	Thank you for the question. It gives me the opportunity to elaborate on this very important question. This is by no means a hoax from the Right. On the one hand, our comments on this matter underline that the Right wants to contribute to the widest possible political gathering on important policies. On the other hand, as I also underlined in my post, the Right wants to reinforce the effort and the operational capacity of Kripos, initially with a probe unit. But this is part of an overall approach, and in our comments on this matter, we underline and join in what we agree on, just to make it clear that the Right should help fight organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e304	I think the representative, Werp, had a good job. I'm going to have a more questioning than the critical approach in the line. First of all, the structure of the county councils and the police districts. I want to right a little bit about what Right thinks about this. Is it a massive restructuring that is planned you, or is it new and better forms of cooperation? So to the warp mentioned in his post, where he referred to and problematized unsafe computer systems, before he immediately began to talk about how positive it is that the data storage directive should be implemented. He also said that privacy should be kept at the same time. However, looking up the comment on unsafe computer systems, I would like to ask whether the risk of just these unsafe systems is also relevant to the issue of data storage and privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e313	Thank you! Right-wing promotion – I think it is – three-quarters of a year ago, just before the summer break last year, a proposal for a representative to use the near-police model as the basis for the organisation of police work. The centre party voted against that proposal. We have the approach that closeness and anchoring to the police are linked, and that's what we're going to use when we get the government's proposal on the table and we're going to deal with it here in Stortinget. It is precisely the organisation of police districts. I would like to elaborate on that, but I also need to spend time on the issue of the Data Storage Directive. Indeed, the data stored are not guaranteed by the fact that we do not subject them to more stringent public controls, on the privacy side, in the form of judicial control and in the form of clear restrictions on the penalties for which data is to be stored. The situation just underlines the importance of the reconciliation Right and the Workers' Party came into being in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e322	I would like to thank Mr. Werp for a very good and insightful statement. I have to say that there are parts there that I would like to have more time to get in, among other things. on informants and their protection. It was very well justified by the representative here – I am very happy about it. But in the positive spirit in which we are working on this message, there is one thing I would like to ask about the work on a point that is important here, bringing in more of the necessary civil competences – economists, auditors and civil engineers within data, etc. What's happening today is that when they're going to be hired by the police, they get a course at the Police College that lasts for up to a few months, where they get the skills to work in the police — legislation, etc. – so that they can also be assigned limited police authorities when entering the police and working there. In the context of a comment in the position that the Right and the Advance Party have together, we are uncertain about what is written here about ‘shorter and more adapted training courses’ for civil servants. I'd like to hear how to explain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e329	I think I can reassure the representative, Mr Bøhler, that there is no major difference here with regard to the question from the representative. What's important on the Right's part of that comment is to emphasize that we want more flexibility. We want more dynamism in the relationship between civil competences and competences needed by the police, without necessarily being tied up in special educational courses or courses. That's the flexibility that we're concerned with, and that we want to emphasize with that remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e337	Security is the foundation of the welfare society. The absence of crime, both in society in general and in the lives of individuals, is essential for the success or not of a society and a single person. Therefore, it is important that society does all it can to prevent, solve and punish crime. The Red-Green Government has this as its guide, and the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice are at the head. Over the last few years, we have increased the police budget, trained a historically high number of police officers, recruited civil competences in the police, and increased the penalty for gross crime. This message is another component of the government's commitment to crime. I am very pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has come together on important principles and measures, with a few exceptions for the Progress Party. The world today is very different than it was too few years ago. Short distances around the world, an integrated Europe and technological development face new and major challenges. Economic crime through technology, organisation and coordination and implementation of crime across borders through technology, transfer of dirty money, trafficking in human beings, sexual abuse of children on the Internet and through Internet technology requires those who are also required to prevent and solve crime, master technology and exchange information and intelligence with partners across borders. That's only how we can succeed against dark forces. That is why I welcome this communication. Several public agencies, and the business community, must stand together to succeed against these cancers. I fully share the Committee's views on close cross-border cooperation. It is important to close the holes and eliminate the possibilities for offenders to flee the investigation or asylum abroad. We need to have more agreements with relevant countries on the provision of information, return of money acquired as a result of criminal activity and agreements concerning persons wanted in criminal matters. Our police associates and women in different countries do a great job, but they need both increased resources and reinforced political support to do an even better job. The other day, I visited the police liaison woman in Pakistan. She does a great job, but needs further political and financial help. It is worth mentioning that Norway, Sweden and Denmark share only one position there. In my conversations with politicians in Pakistan, it was also found that Pakistan is willing to reach an agreement on the provision of information and people. I expect political leadership in the Ministry of Justice to take the floor and continue to engage in dialogue with Pakistan. It is important to preserve the lives of money laundering. Here we need all the good forces on board. I would therefore like to welcome the involvement of the Association and their input into how to open up bad lawyers and gain insight into illegal transactions. Let me first commend the police's fabulous efforts against organized and mobile crime originating in the Baltic countries. However, the police association now believes that the situation is such that ‘we cannot live with it’. Arne Johannessen, as a leader, believes that, if the situation persists, Schengen cooperation and its external borders must be seriously considered. Let me say this: SV warned against this development when Schengen cooperation was concluded. SV therefore shares the police association's reflection on the matter. Schengen cooperation is not a sacred cooperation. The safety of the Nordics is far more important for the SV than this agreement. In any case, we must be willing to listen to the professional advice provided by the police's own associations and associations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e357	Akhtar Chaudhry's party colleague, Oppebøen Hansen, was involved in the data storage directive, and said among other things. that the recovery crime has fallen and that before the data storage Directive has been introduced and implemented. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Chaudhry, whether this does not show that the data storage directive is not as necessary as it is. The Labour Party claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e364	It is true that SV believes that the Data Storage Directive is not as necessary to combat crime, for example: The Working Party and the Right believes. Here it is quite clear that we have disagreed on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e369	The representative Chaudhry was occupied with two things in particular in his post. One was cross-border cooperation, child abuse, and cooperation across borders is extremely important. But what is the background to the fact that by voting against the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, the representative Chaudhry would ensure that such cooperation would be impossible in practice? What other concrete action will the representative, Mr Chaudhry, take to ensure that information is provided that is necessary to solve the crime of which the representative, Mr Chaudhry himself, was involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e376	It is clear that there is disagreement here as to whether the Data Storage Directive is necessary for combating crime – sexual abuse against children, etc. SV is concerned about, and are the first to fight crime, and especially against children on the Internet, but it is also clear that there is disagreement. Many people believe that the Data Storage Directive is not necessary, not as essential at least as the Right Party and the Labour Party believe. Otherwise, I refer to the message, which shows that there are a lot of actions that have just been launched to combat crime against children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e382	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e385	Organised crime is a problem that seemed to increase as well as become more serious and comprehensive. It is based on trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings, MC and drug crime for financial crime, corruption and mobile crime. It is an international and cross-border problem, and it affects many Nordics in many different ways. Norwegian youths are imprisoned in the drug field when drug dealers are closed down to make new people dependent on the drug. At the same time, there are large, organized networks with little respect for the individual human being and the human world. Norwegian families experience their houses being rana while they're gone for a weekend – or even worse, the house is being ranaed at night while they're sleeping there. This makes people afraid. The problem exists throughout the country. Francis Bacon said that nothing is more terrifying than fear itself. This is a lot in. To feel that someone is breaking into your home, the place where you should be able to feel safest and most relaxed, creates fear, not only for your family, but also for your whole neighborhood. Safe communities aren't just a bunch, there's a real lot of places yet, places where no one locks the outside door neither day nor night, and where a drop the kids out freely to play. The aim must be to prevent a development in which many know fear and are constantly on guard, because it affects the quality of life and the value of pleasant communities. I support the government's target expressed in the big message, and the target of the rest of the Justice Committee on better cooperation and tools in the police action to prevent and fight organised crime. A good example of cooperation that has produced results is the Grenenselos project. This shows that it is fully possible to achieve results without merging entire police districts. Serious crime can be prevented and reduced when the police are both close to their audience and at the same time they can see greater perspectives outside their direct responsibilities. It is therefore important not to forget the role of the local police in creating security locally and in preventing crime, including organised crime, from getting a foothold. I have pointed out the various forms of organised crime that the bigotry report outlines measures to combat. Some of these also create problems locally in many parts of the country. I have great expectations that new technology through the ICT effort in the police will make it possible with new and modern solutions. Furthermore, I would like to see the importance of police cooperation both regionally and locally with organisations, municipalities, the business community and other relevant actors. I think the message is very good at this. So to international cooperation against organized crime. By its very nature, much of this crime is cross-border and international, and without proper cooperation across borders, we will not be able to prevent and fight against such crimes here to countries either. Schengen cooperation is very good in this way, but at the same time I would like to have a little problem with this. The Joint Police Association recently expressed its wish to reintroduce border controls. They're pointing specifically at some of the Baltic citizens who want to enter the North and Norway, given that 80 pst. by organised crime in the Nordic region, according to which they are made by Baltic people. I think we should take a closer look at this issue and consider arguments both for and against. Strengthening border controls into Norway or introducing common Nordic external borders may be useful, but of course must be weighed against any disadvantages of reintroducing passport controls. Nevertheless, it must be borne in mind that in the fight against organised crime, we must take the measures that can produce results. This could be one of them. So to the theme informant and witness protection, which is also addressed in the message. It goes without saying that informants and witnesses have to feel safe that they are, as far as possible, anonymous, and if they are not given good protection. In this context, I would like to express a different point of view than the Minister of Justice and the Labour Party and the Right on the Data Storage Directive. I believe that the risk of this directive preventing information to the police is greater than the risk for the criminals to be discovered. I very much believe that the big message about how the fight against organised crime can and will take place will provide a particular good basis for getting rid of the most possible of this type of crime, and will end by bragging to the Minister of Justice for initiating and promoting this important message. I would also like to point out that the whole committee supports most of the message, which promises good for further efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e415	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e418	There is now a growing debate on Schengen and border control. Some parties in Denmark have been out there notifying what they think about it, and we see that Italy and France now, in connection with Lampedusa and what is happening in Libya, have arranged for much more border controls to be introduced. The Progress Party will have a resolution dealing with this at our national meeting, and we will certainly have a major debate on this. We want so much to look at restrictions on border control. But my question is to the representative Klinge: Where is the Central Party? If so, will the Central Party participate in a reassessment, an evaluation, an innovation in Schengen cooperation, and also, where appropriate, in the introduction of border controls at internal borders between the Schengen co-operation countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e425	I thank you for the question. I was a little into it in the post, and I thought it was okay to follow up. It is important to bear in mind that both Bulgaria and Romania will soon enter into the Schengen cooperation and that Italy and Greece already have major problems with their external borders. There is something called making the door tall and the door wide, but it is clear that the door may be too high and the door too wide for those who want to come. from African and Baltic countries to engage in organised and serious crime. So I share the view of the Progress Party and the representative that Schengen cooperation must both be evaluated and, if necessary, amended in order to achieve that we are actually taking good steps to fight this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e432	5 minutes is very short time to present their party's vision in such a comprehensive case as this one. I understand. It is possible that I heard errors, or that I misunderstood, but I interpreted what the representative Klinge said about the data storage directive, to the point that she intended to express that the data storage directive and the implementation of it, as we have done in Norway, would prevent the police from resolving crimes. So my challenge to the representative is that she can then get 1 minute more to explain what she actually meant to say about the data storage directive, or whether I misunderstood the representative's posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e437	I'm glad to follow up. I was concerned with the protection of witnesses and informants as a special topic, because it has also been in the message and in the comments of the Committee. What the police on the one hand say is that they want the Data Storage Directive as a tool to solve crime. On the other hand, there is little evidence to suggest that there is so much to pick up. Rather, it is, as the representative himself was inside his post, uncertain computer system almost everywhere in society, also in the Pentagon. The fact that people who call the police to provide important information, or communicate by e-mail or other means, can trust and be confident that they are not discovered by those who are criminals, and who can do serious acts against themselves, I think I'm important to have with them. Even if it is not tracked, the insecurity will be there and unfortunately could prevent important information.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e444	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e447	First, I must be allowed to praise the Council of State for this communication on the fight against organised crime. It is a good and thorough report, which largely addresses the main issues we face in terms of organised crime. I would also like to commend the Committee on Work. I'm glad there's such a big consensus about such an important field. It is not insignificant that the Committee is so united in its comments and so offensive. The threat from organised criminal environments has increased in recent years, especially due to the increased influx of foreign criminal actors. At the same time, the efforts of the authorities have not been sufficiently targeted and coordinated, as pointed out by the National Audit Office. In my post I will try in a short time to get inside at least some themes. The prostitution environment in Oslo's streets is currently spreading, and more and more women from the particular Roma people are prostitution themselves. Many are concerned that minors are being exploited. A clear trend in the prostitution community is that more and more of those who are prostitutes are foreign. More and more of the women who come to Norway to start a new and better life are brought here by cynical backers. They believed in the promises of the great opportunities that existed in different countries – promises of wealth and jobs – but were met with an existence of begging or prostitution. This shows the importance of stopping the criminal backers in prostitution and trafficking in human beings. Just trafficking in human beings was one of the themes that was lifted at the Christian People's Party's national meeting this weekend. The fight against trafficking in human beings, the slavery of our time, must be higher on the agenda. I am pleased that the committee emphasises this and that they are impatient. The motivation behind the work against human smuggling must primarily be to help people in deep distress. The criminalisation of human smuggling must not be used as an excuse or a measure to ensure a most restrictive refugee policy, which some parties often call for. We in the Christian People's Party long reminded of a new action plan related to the fight against trafficking in human beings. It was good that one came now, just before the turn of the year, and it is important that this is followed up. The Christian People's Party has called for an action plan specifically aimed at children who are victims of trafficking in human beings. In particular, minor asylum seekers are at risk of being recruited for trafficking in human beings. There is reason to believe that several of the hundreds of children who have disappeared from the reception of asylum have been victims of trafficking in human beings, without adequate follow-up from the police. Few children are identified as victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway. It's probably not because they don't exist, but because it's so hard to detect. In the past, the Advocate General has raised the need for the protection of witnesses and police informants. That the problem of organised crime is increasing may be a sign that it is lucrative for the backers to conduct this activity in Norway. It is important that the victims be adequately protected if they choose to report their behindrs. Today many foreign informants are sent out of the country after they have witnessed, and then they are in real danger of represals from the rearmen. Only by offering a well-functioning witness protection program can we get informants and witnesses who voluntarily report to the police if they are in possession of valuable information. The Christian People’s Party is pleased that the committee is so clear that they want a change in the law in this area. Efforts towards organised profit-criminality need to be stepped up. The theft raids that we've experienced in recent years are devastating to people's perception of their own security. The Committee's wish to prioritise this type of crime must be followed up. Police have often pointed to the link between profit crime and organised begging. In other words, a more offensive response to begging can lead to a decline in the profitability rate. The review of the National Audit Office’s investigation into police action against organised crime revealed that we are facing a couple of billions of investment needs in order for the police to have an up-to-date ICT platform. In that respect, a Joint Control and Constitutional Committee pointed out that new ICT solutions are ‘a critical point for police action against crime in general and in relation to organised crime in particular’. Despite the fact that the Riksrevision and a Joint Control and Constitution Committee have pointed out that the improvement of the ICT system of the police must be a higher priority task, the Government responds in its communication that there will be no changes to the plans and that the correction will continue at the same pace as before. The Christian People's Party supports the position on the matter and also thinks it is good that the proposals No. 6 and 7 are sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e481	In the job I have, I often ask myself the question: is it possible to achieve results that create more security for people through political decisions, and that it happens quickly? The efforts of the police and the justice sector over the last two years – with the help of all parties in the Stortinget – have shown me that this is possible. It is therefore very gratifying that the Stortinget, through the treatment of the bigmouth message, has managed – with good efforts from all parties – to gather around very important sizes to combat the type of crime that we consider to be perhaps the most brutal, which goes deeper and which can hit the toughest. I just have to stress that I think that the effect of the proposed measures is even stronger when we manifest that all the political parties choose to stand behind them. I just have to say that, as far as the historical and political experience of each of us is concerned, what you look back on is when you manage to gather as broad and good solutions as you have actually done in this matter. It wasn't obvious. It started with the Riksrevisions report, which contained clear and clear signals to all of us – also to the Ministry of Justice and the Government. Nevertheless, it has been clear, through the committee consultation process and now here today, to manifest just that pressure. I stress this, because I believe that Police Norway, Justice Norway, the Public Prosecutor's Office and all the other actors may see it as a very clear signal. So many of the measures outlined in the communication are already in progress. That's why I could answer the initial question yes to the fact that it's possible to get a quick impact, even in terms of the crime that might be most difficult for us. There is reason to pay attention to the fact that over the last two and a half years, police Norway has contributed to a decline, for example, in the past two and a half years. in gross thefts in Oslo by 36 p.m. - It's a big number. The project Grensenlös, which has been brought forward several times, I just have to give all sorts of credit, because it is an example of how to organise the effort against organized crime. From October 2009, when this initiative was taken – I called it the intervention force in the debate then – and until April 2011, the Borderless Project has apprehended 326 people from Lithuania, Poland and Romania, and recently also from Chile and Serbia. We see that in the case of such criminal acts as these groups have been behind, the number has begun to fall considerably. Among other things, in Asker and Bærum and Søndre Buskerud police districts, we see a significant decline, for example. in the number of gross thefts from dwellings. We have good numbers on this -- people register it and report it. We see a fall of 52 pst, respectively. in one state and 19 pst. in the second. We have to be happy about that. It's one of the best signs that it's useful. It's useful to give more resources. But it's also useful to think about structure and how to work. The creation of cooperation, among other things: Over the boundaries of police districts is absolutely crucial. I believe and have mentioned – and this is not just the case with the judiciary – that future political debates need and will be much more about how we organise and use the resources, and not just how much resources you pump in. There are often heavy debates, but the debate and process that have been in the committee has shown us that at least the justice politicians in all parties are prepared to take that debate, and that it is growing from just such a political debate. I would therefore like to thank the Committee, the Enlarged Bureau and the rapporteur for their excellent work. So I would point out that perhaps the greatest challenge in the future in combating organized crime from the government and my side is to get further strengthening of international cooperation. There, too, it was perceived that Norway might be abroad and would not have the opportunity to register in the ongoing processes. It was not right that Norway had no options. With regard to the work of the government, with the support of the political parties in the United Kingdom, to join the Prüm cooperation, i.e. extended police cooperation with the possibility of direct searches, among other things. in DNA profiles, fingerprints and some car registration, I am pleased that Norway was not abroad, and that we are actively involved in this. There is also reason to stress that the way Norway is welcomed in cooperation with Europol and Eurojust is good. We reap a lot of it, and get good help from these cooperatives both in charge and in police to combat organized crime and to address specific issues. I would also like to point out that it is absolutely essential that we carry with us the whole chain of punishment when we are thinking of combating organised crime. It's not just about apprehending, prisoning and punishing. We also have to think about what kind of punishment we face these people, including. to prevent their return, but also to prevent those who are convicted of such acts in Norway from planning new crimes with further strength while incarcerated in a Norwegian prison. For this reason, it has been imperative for me to notify Norway in connection with the adoption of the EU framework decision on settlement transfer. We have not yet achieved that – it has not come into force in the EU either. In addition, it has been imperative to have bilateral agreements with the country concerned. I am happy to be able to report the following to the Stortinget: As far as Romania is concerned, what is known is a bilateral, good agreement – there are legislative changes related to this. But a few weeks ago, we also signed an agreement with Lithuania. Among the groups of non-residents in Norwegian prisons, they are high in Lithuania. So we got a redemption transfer agreement. Last week it was well, I was in Riga, Latvia, and signed a settlement transfer agreement with the Latvians. We have a model of this which is very similar to the EU framework decision and which shows that Norway is involved. And here's more work to do. But it's positive that we now seem to have got some holes in the bush in getting these types of agreements in place. There may be important policy tools for the future to combat this crime. But we are totally dependent on the fact that even atoning and sanctioning are being adjusted up and, I kept saying, calibrated in, in order to be able to be rusted against the kind of crime that we are discussing here today. It is also important to stress on our part that one of the most important measures has been to establish what I have called the response force to organised crime. It was done in 2009, and I have to say that it almost surpasses my own optimism about the results it has achieved in combating mobile profit crime. The fact that we're strengthening Kripos, that we're strengthening the U.S. police force, and that we're adding these together with the police districts, makes sure that if there's a raid in one state, you have the opportunity to deploy an intervention force quite as quickly to stop it. It is amazing to see that the emergency police — in fact, in the last few months — are appreciating more than 150 people per month for another type of crime. So I would strongly recommend the Progress Party to go from its proposal to assign the task of the P.D. to the police districts. The blackmail police are a vital player in the work that is now being done. I would also like to point out that we are totally dependent on adjusting the law, both in terms of the specific criminal provisions, which have been discussed by many – I will return to Stortinget with as quickly as possible – and the protection of informants. We have given a clear signal that we will, and I am pleased that the Committee is also in agreement on our need for this. Finally, I just want to say that the decision made in the Storting concerning the storage of data is absolutely crucial. It's not a piece to fight this kind of crime, it's, as the managers of the Grenenselos project have said, actually absolutely crucial. And it's not like there's something new coming, it's a method you've been using. The data storage agreement will help make it a method that we will be able to use with greater pressure also for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e507	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e511	The police are not allocated entirely insignificant financial resources throughout the year, and resources are also increasing every year. It is necessary for the police to be able to carry out the task which, among other things: The size has given. Does the Council of State think that the police can be reorganized and work in a completely different way, and that this can mean that one can reduce transfers to the police, or at least avoid increasing police resources year after year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e518	This is drawing to be a good day. For now we are getting the Progress Party with us that the police are being allocated resources, and also with the question of whether we need structural or other types of change in the police. My answer is that I think the police need more resources in the future. That's why I've never provided a budget in Stortinget where the police don't give more resources. Especially against ICT, we need more resources. But I am very concerned, especially at a time when we are increasing resources so significantly, that you also have a discussion about how that money is spent. And I would recommend everyone to look at the story of Follo police districts. I was there yesterday. It is a fantastic restructuring that has been done in Follo, and which, according to my concepts, has contributed to a significantly more efficient police service. The rapporteurs also say that. Then you can discuss that you want more money. At the same time, however, there is a significant decline in crime, including: a reduction of 40 pst. in the crime of violence. These are amazing police results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e527	The Minister of Justice was in several important areas, and in particular that of foreign criminals. Now we have a situation where we have sixfold the number of foreign profit criminals in Norway in the last ten years. The Minister of Justice refers to the agreement with Romania and that several agreements are now to be concluded. The Progress Party has supported these agreements and has called for more. But my question to the Minister of Justice is: are these agreements accurate in relation to profit-criminals, as these agreements explicitly state that the extradition agreements relate to judges over one and a half years? Is it so that with these agreements we are able to send out foreign criminals with judges in six months, eight months, one year, for example, or do you actually have to commit a criminal act and get a sentence of more than one and a half years in order for us to at all manage to send out these foreign criminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e532	That is a very good question, because I believe that the agreements that are now being concluded, and what is also happening in the European Union, will not be entirely accurate to those who get judges such as those. is located in the six-, seven-, eight-month level. That's what we're struggling with. I just have to admit, that's the way it is. We've set the "all hour high", which is the highest number of accumulators last year, but the number is considerably too low based on what we want. One of the reasons is that criminal convictions become too short, so that the process in any case takes too long. And then it's important to do what the government did last year, and what we do this year, that at least when the punishment is done, people are expelled by force. It was over 700 convictions that were sent out by force last year, as far as I recall – subject to the number, but I think it is there. Therefore, it is important that we also use the Foreign Affairs Unit as actively as we do now, because effective expulsion is an important measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e539	Criminal services and prison inmates can tell quite serious stories that there is a lot of networking in Norwegian prisons, both in the case of established organised criminals, and also in the case of recruitment of new ones. My question to the Minister of Justice is: Where is the work in relation to obtaining separate departments for foreign nationals who make judgments in Norway, possibly their own prisons? And does the Minister of Justice have any views on this by financing foreign detention places for their respective citizens from the countries for which it might be relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e544	I have previously said in Stortinget that we want to assess the question of our own places for the foreign convicted, and that is something we have to assess. I'll come back to Stortinget when we're done with it. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, it is quite clear that there are no prison sites available for sale, so we have problems with direct funding of our sites. It's also very difficult to construct. But what I've been very concerned about is that when Norway uses EEA funds in Latvia, in Lithuania, or elsewhere, it has to be possible to have more thoughts in mind at one time, so that we can connect some of the EEA funds to providing better, and more, capacity in the country's criminal services, alongside that we can pay for transport. So when I signed the agreement with the finance minister in Latvia last week, I was very happy that the largest share of EEA funds for Latvia was money for the criminal services. We even opened a new youth prison — while signing a settlement transfer agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e555	Earlier in the debate, both an SV representative and one from the Central Party have been concerned by Schengen and the challenges associated with Schengen cooperation. I have seen that the Nordic Police Association has sent a letter and input to the Minister of Justice in connection with that 80 pst. organised crime in the Nordic region is linked to persons from the Baltic countries. To this extent, it has also been interesting to see that the Minister of Justice has stated that Schengen cooperation can hardly be changed, but that he appreciates the recording and will take it further with him in his work. Then it would have been interesting to hear a little about what the Minister of Justice thinks about this, whether it's a video he's taking with him in his international work. Is there a proposal that the Minister of Justice seems to have something to do with it, or is it a proposal that he will not follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e562	I always believe that in Europe – and especially in the future – there will be a debate on the impact of Schengen cooperation. I think Norway has to be there. There may be adjustments, but there may also be measures within the Schengen area of justice policy, which I believe are important to us. I don't want to close the door for that. But the importance of almost closing the boundaries, controlling every single person who comes, I think is considerably exaggerated in combating crime. It is not written in the face of anyone that they intend to break into Asker and Bærum or elsewhere. I must remind you that the large groups with which we have struggled in the case of foreign nationals who commit criminal offences also represented a large proportion of the crime in Norway before participating in a borderless Europe. That's why I think you should be careful to think that that's the solution. Then I have said that, among other things, shall carry out border checks. It's strengthened in Eastfold, and I think we have more to go on there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e569	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e572	Organised crime is a clear threat to well-being and security and has received considerable attention in recent years. This type of crime can be quite daunting to discover and reveal – this is because the crime is spreading across borders and police districts. The hallmark of organised crime is that it is practiced in the hidden and by groups that are both smart and well-organised. The crime scene we're talking about here is, among other things, drugs, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings, ICT crime, financial crime and mobile crime. Organised crime is a growing challenge both nationally and internationally. Therefore, it is very important to exchange and interact with the countries around us. The Storing Message provides a good situational review. It is largely based on trend and threat analyses. One of the most important strategic issues is the coordination and governance of efforts, both nationally and internationally. I think that the big message, and the attitude of the committee, gives a lot of good answers to this. The message points to an adequate and effective response, not least through active and targeted international police and prosecution cooperation. There is a clear link between organised crime and conflict situations in several countries. These are situations that lead to serious violations of basic human rights. It is important to harmonise measures and laws across borders, and to end the work done by various international organisations, for example by acceding to and ratifying the UN Convention and its protocols against cross-border organised crime and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. The Schengen agreements have been actively discussed in recent times both in Norway and in some EU countries, including today, for a number of reasons. In Norway, some claims that the abolition of internal borders means more crime and that the solution is to pursue a more restrictive border policy. I mean, this might not be the way to go. We need more cooperation, not less. We need good international tools to fight this type of crime. A single country will not be able to do this alone. The Schengen Information System (SIS) is a common database which is important in the fight against organised crime. The database is designed to enable the administrative powers of the Schengen countries to exchange information on persons and objects easily and efficiently. The SIS compensates for the abolition of border checks at internal borders. But I also see that it may be possible to change and improve the Schengen Agreements, as the European Commission is also calling for today. Finally, there is reason to commend the government for a strong commitment to the police in recent years. We see that this initiative gives good results in the form of several solved issues, and it also shows figures from the Statistical Central Bureau. Operation Boundary-free, and other such projects, must have much of the era for this. When it comes to Operation Borderless, there is a cross-police cooperation where an inconclusive one is working to fight against the profit crime of travelling gangs. Many of those taken and imprisoned come from other countries, often countries in Eastern Europe. The good results of the police have led to new challenges for criminal services – prisons are full. In order to remedy this situation, more use of housing transfers is important. By date, there are about 1,200 foreign citizens in Norwegian prisons. Many of them would rather have their own sentence in their home country, so that the detention centres were released. The work on reconciliation transfer is a lengthy and circumstantial process. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has put in place settlement agreements with Lithuania, Romania and Latvia, and that he is working hard to get Norway into a new European cooperation on settlement transfer that will come into force from December this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e589	I was about to say that this is almost Christmas Eve. I also agree with all those who have distributed gifts as to the fact that this position, which exists from the Committee on Justice, is largely grouped. I also agree with what has been said, and I think the right tools are now in this setting. I record that the Minister of Justice has said that much of this has already been done, or is about to be implemented, and we get to believe that it will have an effect. I also believe that in such a context we must not believe that the solutions to the future challenges of foreign criminals, organised crime, are being solved only by making this decision today. We have to ensure that it has operational activities, and then the Minister of Justice – I think – is in an important area. If a card is to try to draw and predict and believe something about future organized crime – you have to call it organized crime, I don't find any other concept, but it's all about different forms of cooperation to engage in criminal activity – it's the economy that's at the top. Then you have to figure out who is involved in these different forms of cooperation, and it's getting more and more complicated. It goes across all possible borders, it goes across all kinds of nationalities, it goes across all sorts of cultural origins. There are different groupings, different professions that involve different forms of cooperation, which I fear have a small advantage, at least on us politicians. But in fact, I also believe that they have not only a small head start on the Norwegian police, but on the police in general, because there is so much economy in it. I refer to it as for example: referred to as corruption in the setting, which I also think we need to pay much more attention to. The numbers shown in the setting are alarming. It is clear that although many new forms of cooperation can be seen in organised crime, more and more people still operate as individuals, without communicating with each other – the network does not communicate at all. And then I'm not going to deal with the discussion about the Data Storage Directive, it's not going to be accurate. We're going to have a lot of focus on organized crime in every way, but we can't focus so much on it that we forget what is everyday crime -- the one that people meet every day, but which we may also have a tendency to consider and talk about as organized crime. There I think it might be that we're wondering ourselves a little bit in this context. Because if we don't shut down -- I was trying to say beat the hell -- the everyday crime that you see every day, right away, if we don't make it possible to get a real zero vision, it's all about siphoning, army, etc., we're making it easier to recruit for organized crime. So I also want to focus more on what goes on in the zero vision. That's right, we need to have an overall approach to combat both organized crime and everyday crime. That is why the Progress Party has put forward proposal No. 1, which is about to get to a national unit that coordinates this. Then I'm going to finish -- it's going to be too little time. But I am sure of what the Minister of Justice said, that the task of the future for us politicians to fight crime is to provide a structure and an organisation that is boundless, that we are able to place responsibility and sharpen competence to a much greater extent than what we are doing today. Then I would have liked to have said a lot about Schengen and internal borders and the external borders, but I think we can do that on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e607	In particular, the time suggests that this is a correct assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e610	It's almost so I get the desire to polish the silverware myself and invite everyone who has contributed, to celebrate that we have actually done a good job together. I don't want to say for once – because it's quite common – but as the Council of State and others have been involved, it's like we've been together, and it's essential given that organized crime is a fundamental attack on democracy. I think there is reason to boast that in public vocabulary too, parties and individuals who have done a job are actually famous. It has been done in the media to the Right, which has made a number of proposals included in the communication. That's what I think is rust, and I think it's fair – that's what it's said. Of course, the right will continue to challenge the government on individual elements, on the resource situation, on instruments. But I believe that we have now laid a good foundation for further work, regardless of which party constellations, politicians and individuals run the government and the Ministry of Justice after 2013. In the future, of course, the right will continue to focus on the need for resource access and basic manning. For this, as the representative Sandberg was in, also the daily. There are no watertight shots between organized crime and so-called everyday crime. No crime should be counted as everyday. Of course, we're going to continue to challenge the better and more use of civil servants. We are going to continue to challenge that all politicians should try to avoid planting flags on all kinds of things, calling something for a project, such as that. vacuuming the police districts of people needed in daily life to combat everyday crime that can develop into something more. We are going to continue to challenge that we need our own prison departments, our own prisons, but I want to commend the Council of State for being open here today that he is positive that we can also use EEA funds to increase the capacity of those countries. It's been challenged by the Right for a long time. It hasn't been as transparent, but transparency is now at least crystal clear, and we're only waiting for feedback when you can see the results of the approach that the Council of State has now taken. As far as Schengen is concerned, like others, the right is concerned that we need to follow up the initiatives that have come from, for example. Italy and France. It is also part of the Stockholm Programme to avoid fraud and abuse of freedom of movement. There is a central point on which several Norwegian politicians are concerned. So a little bit into DLD. I think it's interesting to hear from some people that people will stop tipping at the police because of the uncertainty in the computer systems. That uncertainty was there long before anyone started discussing the Data Storage Directive. To put it that way, lack of tips is the police's least problem – has never been a problem, nor will it be. That was a little bit of an obscure argument. Then there are the different, slightly temporary, representatives of privacy -- I say temporarily, for the commitment has not just gone like a red thread through either this period or the previous one. It is a paradox that the Right and Workers' Party in their agreement got far more than SV and the Center Party did well in government. I also think it is special that there are proposals here today that go far beyond the data storage directive in terms of possibly violating privacy. It does say a little about the reasons for voting against the Data Storage Directive. One point I'd like to address that we haven't come up with far enough is the so-called new crime and ID theft. It is a paradox that it was the Data Storage Directive that had to start discussing these kinds of issues properly, it was not a debate we started ourselves. It's a paradox. It is also paradoxical that the strongest opponents of the Data Storage Directive are those who are most eager to publish information about most of themselves and the family on different social media, etc. I'm not going to pull it anymore, but it says something about the attitude to what we put out is important. It is incredibly important to continue to focus on personal responsibility and responsibility for others. We can't be naive. Then to the level of authority. There's a lot of things to do when it comes to coordinating the total work. The fact that things that are reasonably confidential are still sent out by post, in a mailbox that is relatively easily accessible also to organized criminals, we have to look at. In addition, we need to start looking at computer systems evenly over, not just in the police, but not least in the health services, with all the examples we've seen of leaks, which organized criminals will, of course, use to the extent that you don't have enough security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e636	Organised crime represents, in part, new challenges for business, the local population and, in particular, police and prosecution authorities. The fight against organised crime is not of new date. It has been fighting through all times and with different means. As the police have introduced new methods of investigation, criminals have gone new ways. It's right – and important – to keep closing this gap. For us politicians, therefore, it is a challenge to constantly upgrade the police with the most appropriate tools. The Data Storage Directive is in this way the last means of action of a reasonable majority here at Stortinget has put at the disposal of the police. My post here today will mainly focus on MC crime, which is a challenging field in organised crime. MC crime requires new forms of police work and also broad, unorthodox alliances in each community where these environments are established or under establishment. I want to commend the Police Directorate for their efforts to combat one-percent-MC clubs. Furthermore, I would like to commend KS for their commitment and for the important initiative they took this winter, when they invited to a conference to put the spotlight on this challenge. The so-called one-percent clubs are characterised by the fact that they are defined out of the established society and must in no way be burdened with the vast majority of law-abiding motorcyclists. In the choice between Norwegian law and internal clubblover and rules, they opt out to follow Norwegian law. It can't be accepted. Internally, the membership of the club and the rest of the community is a priority above all, including their own family. The KS initiative was a start-up shot for a broad alliance in the fight against one percent environments, a wake-up to the entire Commune-Norway. Media was also present and – and they do – an important and necessary work by focusing on both recruitment to the environment and on the crime that finances the operation of MC clubs. Last time we saw this in Focus Tuesday this week. In my time as rapporteur, I experienced that a MC club went from being a relatively ordinary club to becoming a fully-fledged Hell Angels club. The recording test was the explosion of the Bandidos premises in the Drammen. Here human life was lost. In addition, large economic values were also lost. The withdrawal of values should be an important tool here. When there is a final judgment, it is important that the judgment be followed by the enforcement of the withdrawal requirement. This is essential for combating newly organised crime. We have to go after the money. In the case I refer to, Mutual has an outstanding claim of approximately 300 million. kr, which they have shown very little interest in driving in. When I first want unorthodox alliances on the ground to combat these environments, the insurance industry is also in such an alliance. In the case of Hedmark, Reciprocal, which appears in many other contexts as an important social actor, has been spectacularly passive. Hope this isn't afraid of the environment. It is important that insurance companies should not be perceived as more cautious of this group than of others who owe money otherwise. Finally, some words about what characterises the activities of these clubs. Torpedo and violence, extortion, violation of the Arms Act and, in particular, trafficking and trafficking of drugs have been identified. Members of my local Hells Angels department were taken with 30 kg of amphetamine just before Christmas. This is an example of where they pick up the income from, and this hopefully left a damper at the Christmas party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e655	As the Storting must have noticed, there is a great deal of commitment to this message. The main lines of division between batches may focus on the concreteisation and timing of actions that need to be implemented. Norway is part of Schengen, which poses major challenges in knowing who is in the country at all times. As long as the outer border-Schengen is holed and perforated, the criminals who have entered the area will search for the country that is possibly the most lucrative, such as Norway. Much of organised crime is rooted in other European countries. Norway and the other Scandinavian countries, with their open societies based on trust, have major challenges with criminal groups that want to exploit the system and not least build new networks to conduct their crime. When we know that it's e.g. In Oslo prisons are killers, violent offenders and drug traffickers from 60 countries gathered in one airport, it goes without saying that there are contacts here. Or to quote one of the prisoners, Beudin Azimov of Chechnya said to VG on 4 December: ‘Here is the Latvian, Lithuanian and Chechen Mafia gathered in one sofa.’ Increased networking with Norwegian criminal environments has also been registered. Then it goes without saying that we need to get far better control of who's here in the country, and not least monitor and split up these environments. This requires resources, and much better coordination and exchange of information between public bodies is needed in the fight against organised crime. But cross-border organised crime is not just happening on the land, it is happening so much via ICT and new media. Data or cybercrime will be one of the greatest challenges society will face in the future. The National Safety Authority’s strategy for cybersecurity states that the police are familiar with the challenges, but at present they do not have the tool in place to meet these challenges. EOS services believe that the level of threats associated with ICT-based instruments has increased considerably in recent years. Experience from NorCERT – CERT stands for the Computer Emergency Response Team – subject to NSM, our national safety authority, shows that this is becoming increasingly serious, and not least more difficult to deal with. Intruders have two objectives: either they are out to obtain information, for example. empty your bank account, ID theft, or they want computer power to use the individual's PC to attack others, so-called botnets with multiple computers that are run together. Remotely controlled by a malicious broadcaster, the PC armada is used to attack another user and can quickly put large important businesses out of play. So the outsider can break in today and control e.g. oil production at a platform in the North Sea or the power generation at a waterworks. Our communities have become incredibly vulnerable. Simple IT problems can cause major accidents, and it is possible for criminals to do great damage. Based on experience, there is reason to highlight intelligence and organised crime as the most important threats in Norway today, says NorcERT, who thus confirms that the Progress Party here is in charge. That is why we are promoting concrete proposals which will be much more able to detect and prevent this crime. Our allies are looking at the threats online with increasing concern. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly has produced cyberattacks along with terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons as one of the most serious threats facing the alliance and the Member States. I have recorded during the debate that the government parties are in favour of the two proposals of the Progress Party on cybercrime. This is a good sign that we in common will be able to find a solution that will serve the country and our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e676	We live in an amazingly exciting world in rapid change. Globalization brings us closer together. We're getting an increasingly open society, we're seeing increased migration, and we're getting better and better communication through, for example. air traffic. We see briefly an incredible development that is positive in so many ways, and people have opportunities that you could only dream of in the past. But we also see some side effects that are demanding. All countries strive to address these challenges. This has led to new thinking about cooperation, both in the major international regions, between countries and internally in the countries, for example. between police districts and between parties — a good example of which is the setting in this case. Cooperation is getting better and better, and more and more problems are being solved. But at the same time, we see that the methods used by criminals are becoming increasingly speculated and the cancers behind them are becoming increasingly raw. Many become alarmed by developments. People throughout Europe fear the future. Security and security are one of the most important issues in the media and in politics. It is quite natural, because security is the very foundation of democracy and well-being. But at the same time it is a paradox that so many are worried about the future, all the time when the world is actually getting better and Europe is getting safer and safer. Some react that way that they go back in time. They may have looked at ‘With the heart of the right city’, the time it went on TV, and think it was much better before, although I have to say that it seems that the crime statistics in Aidensfield were very high! In Norway, perhaps the Progress Party is the leading exponent of this romanticization of the past, it is most evident through the wish that the population composition in Norway should be the same as in the 1950s, and that the boundaries should be more closed. Then it is strange that the Progress Party has simultaneously cut the appropriations for, for example. Customs duties. It would be more fruitful with a discussion of how to exploit the possibilities that lie in, for example. The Schengen Agreement, rather than promoting a fear of the future that is only suitable to scare people and to create hostile images. Changes are also noted in the districts. Over the Guards, for example, there has been a huge increase in passenger traffic – an increase that has been unprepared for. This has meant that criminals on the road have had good working conditions. One way to address the new challenges is to develop joint service lists for the entire police district to meet the challenges in the summer, especially on Guards. However, this also means that the necessary resources are transferred from other parts of the district, in particular from the Inherad area and against the Guards, which in turn puts close police under pressure. Global change is not just a hit on the biggest cities, but it affects us all. It is therefore very important that measures against organised crime are as broadly anchored in the national Parliament as we see today. Many have pointed out the good cooperation in the Committee on this matter. I think it's important for people to see that this field is handled as well as it actually is, especially from the Council of State, but also from a total mass. This in itself can contribute to increased security and not least to people's sense of security. Too often we have seen how wrong it can be if the fear of the future, the pessimism and the fear of the future come to grips with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e698	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e701	The government has presented a good big message on the fight against organised crime. It has also received broad support during the examination in the Committee. The red-green government, with the broad and good support of the Stortinget, has strengthened the fight against organised crime. Norway has concluded the Prüm Agreement with the EU, which provides enhanced police cooperation. It is absolutely necessary in a globalised world, and we must continue to strengthen international cooperation. While we are waiting for the EU framework for settlement transfers, the red-green government is impatient and makes bilateral agreements on its own, so that even more can zone in its home country. We have put in place an effort force of 45 men and women who are the police's new weapon in the fight against mobile profit criminals. When VG writes on April 13 this year that the break-in figures in Oslo are dropping, there is probably evidence that the government's record bet on the police is producing results. We also have a police force that's capable of rethinking and doing things differently. Police cooperation Operation Borderless is a success, and there is good reason to commend the police's work. But the police alone cannot solve the challenge we face in the fight against organised crime. In the comments of the Judicial Committee, an overall committee stresses that financial crime must be combated jointly by several authorities. If we are to succeed in this fight, we have to go after the money trail, and then we also need institutions that can run control activities. At the hearing of the Committee, the tax authorities said to the East that tax crime was widespread. There is reason to believe that it is increasing, more organised, multi-criminal and cross-border. Then it is sad to go backwards into the future to conduct a cut to the Skatetaten. That's exactly what the Progress Party is doing in its alternative state budgets. In 2011, they would cut 645 million. kr. I agree with the Progress Party that the customs tariff has an important role to play. But it is strange to read the special comments of the Progress Party, where they say they want to strengthen the customs tariff, because it must be an acute case of short-term memory. Let me remind you that the Progress Party in its alternative budgets has proposed a cut of between 70 million in recent years. SEK and 223 million. kr in the budgets of the customs office. The progress party is talking about improving efficiency, but there's a difference between shaving and cutting off your head. Cuts of this magnitude cannot be executed without calling people off. Both agencies need to carry out statutory tasks, and if the proposals of the Advance Party are put into practice, this means reducing the number of employees and reducing control activities. Then it becomes more difficult to detect tax evasion and other financial crime. Then it will be easier for criminals to smuggle drugs and other things into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e716	I take the floor because I would not leave it entirely uncomplained that the Progress Party so much in its comments places similarities between the phenomenon of immigration and the phenomenon of crime. Now, over the years, maybe we've become a little used to a little bit of unhealthy language when you talk about these groups, and of course it could be overlapping. But when we look at the proposals, we see that the Progress Party also follows up on what I want to say is a quite extensive and borderline on totalitarian control of ordinary people who are immigrants. I must remind you from this pulpit that immigration for that matter is, by and large, lawful. I think you can reflect on the next time you're at a patio in Oslo, and you're being policed and maintained by our Swedish neighbours. I note that of the eight proposals of the Progress Party, two relate to immigrants. First of all, this is that the Progress Party will register and control all immigrants on arrival, so that the registration also includes DNA profiles. The Progress Party will then ensure that the PST – that is what other countries call the Security Police – will have access to all registered information on arriving immigrants. Then what I would like to ask is, is it so that we should put the Nordic passport union out of function? Should it apply to Nordic nationals? Should it be Poles, Germans? Should this apply to other EU citizens? Should it be for American and Canadian citizens, or what is contained in the concept of 'immigrants', because I also don't see the comments, which premise the proposals, that this is in some way specified. I would like to hear on my own behalf the clarification of how they intend to draw this distinction, if at all there is a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e727	Winning and power is the goal behind organized crime, and you skilfully get the means to achieve such a goal. Every day we read about the brutality of such a struggle to win. The person who looked at Focus on Tuesday also got an insight into how from the criminal MC environments are working to recruit young people into organized crime. I think what was produced in Focus was frightening, and also thought-provoking. The wave of violence and violence that was in Kristiansand for a time ago, where minors were behind most of the ranks, many consider an example of the link between the criminal MC environments and the criminal youth environment. The challenges facing our society are quite formidable. Our common task is to do what we can to prevent these environments from failing in their recruitment work. The fight against one percentage environment is such an example. What was done in Lower Eiker and Ring things shows that you can achieve something if you want to. The notification also mentions how the criminal environments operate depending on what produces the most profit at all times, assessed against detection risks and criminal responses. In this context, I would also like to focus a little on what is referred to in the Communication as ‘new crime’, or data crime. It is one of the fastest growing crime activities around the world, covering a wide range of illegal crime, such as financial gain, hacking, downloading child pornography, virus attacks on web pages where you promote racial hatred, to mention something. I think the message well describes the challenges we face in these areas. Part of such a crime can happen in the mini bank here at Karl Johan. Just minutes later, your money disappears out of the account in a mini bank in Chile. It's an example of global crime, which eventually also becomes everyday crime for many, including here in the country. Another major challenge is therefore whether we are able to adapt the law to this new form of crime. I think the Minister of Justice should be commended for quickly changing the law, so that it was illegal to possess shimmering equipment. I'm going to take another example where I think there should be a little look at the law, which should be harmonised in relation to the rest of the world. We have an organisation called STOP, which works to combat illegal streaming and illegal access to television broadcasts received via satellite, digital ground network, etc. It's gradually become a big crime, and you can make a lot of money. There's a verdict here in Oslo that shows that whoever was behind this, it was worth $15 million. kr. In some cases, a profit of 70 million is mentioned. on this type of crime. We have a penalty framework in Norway in just one year for this type of crime, while in Denmark there are six years. I think that should be looked at and would like to harmonise the law vis-à-vis other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e744	The president of the Committee, the representative of the Party of Advancement, said that the debate was a good Christmas and a good new year. That's right, it did until the post now from the representative Tetzschner – quite timely – and I'm going to take the two things up. It is that the Progress Party, which is opposed to the Data Storage Directive, DLD, believes that privacy considerations are very important. The fight against the Data Storage Directive was aimed at protecting the privacy of people. Then the Progress Party makes a U-turn in this matter and promotes the following proposal: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the PST and other relevant police units have access to all registered information on arrivals of migrants.’ The question was now asked by the representative Tetzschner on what is meant by ‘migrants’. I venture this claim: Immigrants, from the past history of the Progress Party, will mean different appearances. But I'm willing to hear another explanation for that. It shows that people who are different-looking should be treated differently and, as I experience it, are inferior. They do not have the same rights in Norway, the same data protection as in other people. The same applies when the Progress Party wants immigrants to be registered and their DNA profile to be recorded. Here again, different kinds of people are treated differently and as inferior. This is a human vision that I don't like, to say it very mildly. I think the way to combat organised crime is to make the police more robust, to increase police competence in multicultural Norway and to increase the confidence of the police in multicultural Norway. There is one of the measures: make it so that the police reflect the composition of the population. In Oslo now has 27 p.m. by the population a different background. Then it is important and right that the police reflect the composition of the population, and that there are people with a minority background in the police. It will increase competence. It will also increase confidence among the population with a minority background, which is important for combating crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e759	Economic crime and financial inequalities have good growth conditions both in Norway and internationally. Keywords are: a lot of money in circulation, greed culture, more complex economic transactions, easy moving funds across borders and, unfortunately, greater acceptance for that kind of crime in many environments. There are strong forces that need to be met with appropriate and adequate instruments. Cross-sectoral and cross-border cooperation is absolutely necessary in order to bring about the kind of crime. It is becoming easier and faster to transfer money both domestically and cross-border. Economic crime is often cross-border, and those involved tend to operate in several countries and have different nationality. Societal development towards increased internationalisation and globalisation only reinforces this image. It imposes increased requirements for effective action against money laundering. This is money earned on crime, which is used in the next round to finance new crime and terrorist activities. New rules will make it more difficult to use our financial system for money laundering purposes. The fight against money laundering, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking and terrorist financing are important building blocks in creating a safer society and in limiting economic crime. The Whitewashing Act, which we received in 2009, is an important measure for the financial sector in their fight against crime. The key obligations under the rules on money laundering are to identify customers and to report suspicious transactions to Ecocrime. It covers not only financial institutions and investment firms but also lawyers, auditors, accountants and others who are dealers of valuable items, including car dealers. This is an important law in the fight against economic crime. Supervision of financial institutions is also an important weapon in the fight against financial crime. The possibility of doing so must then be present. That was the background to the authorisation of hawala activities and other money transfer activities in Norway. Such enterprises are used to transfer black money to countries that do not have an up-to-date banking system. But many law-abiding people also depend on the system to send money back to their relatives in the country of origin. However, the system has posed major problems in terms of transparency and official control, as it has not been regulated under Norwegian law. Last year, this was put in place, and it is an important tool for us in combating money laundering and financing new crime. Finally, the budget has been adopted and will adopt several tax agreements with other countries. Many of these agreements are with countries that we refer to as tax havens. There are also important instruments to combat money laundering and economic crime, for this type of crime is international and organised and can only be combated if we cooperate internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e774	The progress party is concerned with privacy, even if someone doubts it, as we want to introduce some control measures for the police. Now it's like those who choose to put things about themselves on, for example. Facebook and the Internet, do this on their own free will. They're not actually forced to do it by the state. So we're concerned about privacy. We are concerned that the person who is innocent should not get his privacy violated, but is, on the other hand, a suspect of criminal activity, should also be able to be subjected to communication control. The representative of Håheim was involved with the Customs and Fee Set. I think I answered that in a line. We see the possibility of improving the efficiency of the Customs and Fee Setaten, both through the legislation and through a simplification of the charging system, of which the representative Håheim is a major supporter. In terms of privacy, the police have to get the tools they need to do their job, especially against suspects. If one is suspected of criminal activity, one may risk being subjected to communication control, because then it is clear whether the suspicion is justified or whether one is innocent. In the case of immigrants, which have been mentioned here, the term ‘immigrants’ may be used in an unpresidual way. Of course, this does not apply to everyone who comes to Norway. It's our opinion that we're going to do this as needed. There are some people who come to Norway without ID papers who do not want to give their identity and say who they are. Then we're going to have the opportunity at the border to immediately try to identify who the person is, through, among other things. fingerprints and DNA tests, to see if these are persons who have a criminal scroll, to check whether these are persons who have travelled in and out of other countries in the past, or whether there are actually persons who are also registered in criminal records in Norway. We continue to experience that those who have committed criminal acts, among others. goes down to Akerselva and sells the fabric and shows up again for the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth times. Then it may be time for the police and customs authorities to be able to control those who enter the country, so that we prevent them from coming back again and again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e787	I thought that, when the debate enters the final stage, I would like to thank the rapporteur for all the contributions he has made to the debate. I think a debate can be rich in content even if it is positively charged, although there is broad consensus that gives this setting strength. There's a couple of things that I could think of commenting on, that I think can be important questions in the future. One thing that was raised is the relationship between near-police and the fight against what is called, with a little bad words, ‘everyday crime’, versus the emphasis on organised crime, which we place on here today. I would like to say that I agree with that as, among other things. was said by the representative Oktay Dahl and others, that there are no ‘watertight bulkheads’. The fact that we have to see the context here is quite crucial, because organized crime is the basis for comprehensive drug trafficking everywhere. There are incredible networks that organize drug trafficking around the country. It's the basis for mobile profit criminals traveling around and tormenting people with what's called everyday crime. It is organised crime that is the basis for large shimmering operations and for data crime that affects the individual's PC, etc. I think those who work in the local police force, those who work locally, will also have to be specialists in their way in terms of organized crime, because there are forms of organized crime that you encounter more and more in the community. I think, therefore, that we need to underline that context, so that we have to use the entire police force, our entire capacity in the fight against organised crime, because it will be expressed both at Aker Brygge and in the local environment – at Otta or in Stavanger. The other thing I want to underline is what more people have been involved in, among other things. Kåre Simensen and Åse Michaelsen, namely the fight against cybercrime and cybercrime. I would just like to stress, in view of what the representative, Mr Michaelsen, said, that the proposals that are now being submitted by an aggregate increase are mentioned in the vote, so that it is already there that all the other parties are united on those proposals. There are also a few more points that are important in terms of data crime and that are mentioned in the setting. There are new sources of research into computer equipment, which we need very much, and new technologies to carry out so-called online patrols, where the police also need to be more present. So we also have good proposals for new efforts in terms of data crime in the vote. I see that speaking time is over, but thank you for a good debate, where we have made some important progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e800	I record that the representative Ørsal Johansen did not see himself able to give a clear answer as to whether Poles who have come here to work, or immigrants from similar countries, will provide DNA tests and whether they will be reported to the PST upon entry into Norway. Now it was assured from this pulpit that it would not apply to everyone, and then there were some examples of people that we all of course agree that have nothing to do in the country. It's just the catch that you haven't done these nuances in the comments of the Progress Party. One thing is that you are unprecise in your remarks – it may occur in several parties – but in the case of the imposed ones you want to give the government what it is going to promote for the Storting, you only refer to this group as ‘migrants’. Then I have just assured myself that in our foreign terminology it will also include nationals from countries with which Norway has been in passport union since 1954, Sweden, Denmark, Finland. It is therefore necessary to take a direction to the government more seriously than this and even to make the limits you want to do if you are not to be misunderstood in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e807	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e825	I have put the fighting children on the agenda with this interpellation. They have long been a forgotten group – largely invisible in the public landscape. Having said that, I will give tribute to Minister of Justice Storberget for the focus he has had on children and relatives. There has been a humanization in the criminal justice system that has succeeded, despite voiced voices that foreshadow the fact that the only charity is longer and more severe punishments. I also see that the Minister of Justice is busy constantly developing the criminal justice system, and I believe my interpellation is a contribution in that direction. Children of convictions are small, few, but persevering and fighting people, who, based on their assumptions, do a better job than most of us do when it comes to living. Growing up is not a simple journey. The way to adulthood has been different for us and is different for those who are children today. Most children in Norway today have one day millions of children in other parts of the world can only dream of. Most people have good health, go to school, live a daily life full of opportunities and have good adult relationships. Children and young people shall face resistance to childhood. They'll learn to lose, they'll deal with anger and fear, they'll learn to lose something and someone, and they'll experience solitude and love. The learning it gives them to get through such situations enables them to meet the challenges of life. But some children experience loss, loneliness, fear and grief so often that they rarely experience such learning. On the contrary, they learn that the bad situations are only repeated. They have to climb over large stones, walk on roads with a lot of gravel that gives hurt feet, or force large racial areas where they don't know if the road continues on the other side. These are fighting kids, full of resources. They use their forces, abilities and will to find footholds, enforce stones, obstacles and races they themselves are not responsible for. We adults often lack resources. We don't dare enough, we rarely help them with both rock, gravel and race. We give them few and often crazy tools, so that their path is twisted. The children may live in our neighborhood, or they might have been classmates of our children, but we don't know that very much. It is often a well-kept secret to have Mom or Dad in prison. Ellen, my daughter-in-law, is a teacher, and she told me about once she was an assistant in a fifth grade. It was one of the first days after the summer break. The teacher told me about what he had done this summer. He had been in prison! Oh, great excitement! The kids were excited and curious. At the end of the hour, the teacher revealed that he had had a summer job. Oh, that was great relief! In the spare minute, a boy came to Ellen, took her hand, and said, Ellen, my father is in prison. No one knew this. For approx. Ten years ago, when the Swedish government took the initiative to acquire knowledge in this area, it found that there was little research at national and international level, and that children of convicted parents are at greater risk of committing crime themselves. The trend was stronger in the United Kingdom than in Sweden, which was associated with less stigmatisation, more humane penal conditions and better welfare services in Sweden than in the United Kingdom. In Norway, the Fangers Family Association has been a spearhead in both knowledge acquisition and action. They, and Fafo, have investigated the conditions of prisoners and relatives. Between 6 000 and 9 000 children have convicted parents. Two thirds of prisoners have had more problems in their own childhood, they have a consistently weak relationship with the labour market, a high proportion of mental illness, and about half of them. 60 pst. had drug problems. We know something about the generation accounts in terms of drug addiction and mental illness, and we know that early intervention works. More than a third of those in prison in 2004 have had close relatives in prison. We know that the families of those who are in prison have poor advice. It enhances the isolation of children. Relatives and children to prisoners are rarely invited to conversations about their own situation. They carry multiple stigmas, and children of criminals have the heaviest backpacks to carry. We have to make sure that someone asks them and their relatives: do you need help? The last thing I did in my civil work was work out the project that became BarnsBest. Then I came to the then Health Minister Sylvia Brustad, as State Secretary in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. There I was delighted to be involved in working out the laws on children in the Health Care Act and the Special Health Service Act – a work that I have later had the pleasure of following from the outside, and which I see bears fruit. Children's contacts are established in hospitals and municipalities, and that's good! I am sure that a system of child custodians in prisons, set up on the same reading as in health care, but adapted to the needs of children and relatives for prisoners, will be a great improvement. Good measures will only be taken when we have complete and seamless arrangements, adapted to the individual child and its family. It will be a more demanding task than what has been undertaken in hospitals. Often, the children do not live there, nor does their father live there for atonement. This means that there will be challenges to bring relief measures together. Such a scheme must, if implemented, involve the obligation of extensive cooperation between local authorities, where families live. Last year, Stortinget passed the law on social services in Nav – a matter for which I was the case rapporteur. Let me say it like this: the law was without children when it came to the Stortinget, but with children when it left here. Ideally, it would be if we had a continuous system of child contact in all municipalities, in Nav and in hospitals. The child contact system would then become a complete chain of children’s and young people’s perspectives and ensure that the actions of the most vulnerable groups are linked. Focusing on children also means focusing on parents. These will be involved in conversations, and good action is a prerequisite for good cooperation. The poor living conditions of families are likely to require more and coordinated action for many. My proposal on child and relative focus was unanimously adopted at the National Labour Party meeting. The red-green government has been working hard to increase knowledge and provide more resources for child protection. Kindergarten for all is important to give all children good adult contacts. The size has allowed well over 100 million. kr for the quality development of kindergartens. The red-green government will do more of what works. Good knowledge needs to be gathered and disseminated, and we need to provide seamless chain of action for these children and their families. Using the experience of the Children’s Best Competence Network will be good, and it is important to build on the good voluntary actions. Among other things, the Church's Bymission, Wayback and of course the Association For Fanger's relatives will be absolutely crucial to achieving this in the best possible way. Some children fight a lonely fight to be seen, become safe, get rest, be loved for who they are, and know on safe borders. But the most important lesson I think we can draw from our knowledge of children is that they're never just what we see, we're standing around and having each of our puzzle pieces in the kids' big puzzles: MEG. In our quest to help, we must understand above all that building on the children's own resources and opportunities is what best crushes rock, removes gravel, and ensures new race. I fly a lot – back and forth to Kristiansand. Once I was sitting next to a boy who traveled alone. He was ten years old, and I asked if he had been visiting someone. He said he had been on camp: I've been to ADHD camp. We talked the whole trip – or to be honest, he was mostly talking. But he asked me and said, "Do you want?" I was asked every time he put chocolate or candy in his mouth. When the trip was over, I said, "You must have thanked for the trip, then, it was pleasant for me to sit next to such a peek, thoughtful and straightforward boy!" That's not often what I experience, I said. He kept quiet. Then he turned towards me, and looked at me and said, "Oh, no one has told me before, that I'm all right, do you think so?" "Children tend to live up to what you think about them," said Lady B. Johnson. We must have good faith in the children and their parents, even if the caregivers are in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e869	I will be allowed to start by thanking Mr Henriksen for addressing this issue and for a thought-provoking speech. There is hardly a group of people — small people, vulnerable people — who experience a tougher everyday life than those who experience having a mother or father in prison. It's a heavy message to serve out, and we have to do what we can to ease the situation for the young. These children are also, in their own way, a victim of crime and face many and very complex challenges in a number of areas when caregivers are judged to have committed crime and later to execute the sentence. And there are some strings attached to the children: they're totally innocent. One of the dilemmas of punishment is that it has unintended effects on people other than the convicted and the victim. Here's a reason to think especially about the children. I therefore fully agree that there is still a particular reason to look at their situation. In the Storing Message we presented in 2007-2008, St.meld. No 37, Penalties that work have been explained by various measures that are being used in criminal care to improve the quality of work to facilitate both children of relatives and prisoners, and the experience they experience when meeting with criminal services. In recent years, we have built several homes and apartments in prisons, with accommodation for both children and other relatives. It is thought-provoking that many of these facilities are almost ridiculed in the criminal policy debate. It's luxury, and it's too fine. But the government's taking care of it. We must have more of this, not just for the sake of children, but also because this in the long term helps to reduce crime. One of the most important things we can do is to ensure that those who are zones have the opportunity to have contact with their relatives, including the children. For this reason, in several prisons, schemes with so-called open days are also in place, where children of prisoners can see their parents ’ cell. In several prisons, prisoners can now be helped to read children’s books on CDs, so that their children can listen to them. The action The sound of reading has been very well received by the prisoners. There is also a system in which prisoners make small films of their seas and everyday life in prison, and which can help to give children a less frightening picture of the situation in which their parents live. Much of the work we do in this field would not be able to see the light of day if we had not had the Fangers Family Association. It's an organization that could give us all the constant bad conscience. They don't – a little bit maybe – but they give us good insights and are also the most important premiscuous in my work. In several prisons, life courses, parental guidance courses and so-called father groups are offered. I have a sense of the father groups. The aim is to meet the needs of children when parents execute prison sentences. Here, prisoners receive combined course plans and activities during their children’s visits. They also receive basic training in what children need from adults, and the development stage children undergo from the first year of life until they are well over their teens. For us who are young children's parents, we can only know what it feels like not to be part of for important years. I would also like to mention that we are in the process of introducing a new IT-based screening system in criminal justice. This system will contribute to a better overview of the number of children affected by the criminal execution and the status of caregivers for their children. I would also like to highlight the government's commitment to alternative criminal responses and methods of implementation, which will help make it easier to be a child and a relative. What about the Penal Code – do those rules adequately address children’s needs? I don't think so, and I accept the challenge from the interpellant. As the interpellant also points out, legislative changes have been made to strengthen the situation of children in other fields, including: health. There are already provisions on the children of the convictions in today's criminal enforcement law, including: in Section 3. But I believe that we should now assess whether Section 3 is sufficient in this context. I would therefore like to see whether, in the same way as in health legislation, we should uphold the obligations of criminal justice to children of all those who are in prison or who are otherwise in prison. I think we have a lot of work to do against this, but I'm optimistic. I believe that it can help to make accountability easier, and also trigger the creativity that legal texts can actually contribute to criminal care. I have also been interested to see how the Swedish Criminal Service has organised this work. I think we have a lot to learn from each other. The Swedish scheme implies that all prisons, detention centres and health services have appointed one or more employees as children's representatives. The role of children’s ombudsmen in Swedish criminal care is to ensure that the unit takes into account the child perspective expressed in the UN Convention on the Rights of Children to Get Together With Their Parents and that assessments are made in the best interests of children. I want to highlight the child perspective in criminal care – I do not agree – and will consider introducing a similar system in all of our prisons and free care offices. The concept of child ombudsman has already been used here in Norway. In this case, we need to find another name – which is a microscopic problem – for example. child-responsors, and it is a term used by health establishments in Norway. Finally, I would like to mention again the cooperation between the criminal services and the voluntary organisations, and in particular the Fangers Family Organisation. We've had a lot of good meetings, and we've got a lot of good ideas. It may be those who contribute to the small steps that are being taken when we build visiting homes, implement measures and issue information material, which should be small and large steps that make it easier to be small in a very tough everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e892	First, thank you to the Minister of Justice for a positive answer. There's a lot of people -- even people other than me. I believe that the answer, with its references to what has been done, underlines the basic humanist tone of the Minister of Justice's criminal policy, and I think that is very good. Prisons are what sociologists call totalitarian institutions. In these are some of the purposes of breaking people down and then building them up again. This is the goal of punishment: to rebuild it for law-abiding people. Prisons have a long tradition of dealing only with criminals. Totalitarian institutions do just that. They reduce human roles. Such institutions magnify one role of man. In prisons, it's the criminal role that's been given place. The Council's answers show how the Red-Green government has let go, and will also continue to let, also other roles come forward: mother, father, daughter, son, brother or sister, roles that are often more important than the role of criminal when we think about rehabilitation, but that today do not get any nourishment or opportunities to grow. The role that children care about is the role of mother and father. Although society should and must punish a caregiver, neither mother nor father disappears for the children. It's just going to be more difficult. This is a should the children should not carry alone. The children are concerned about things criminal care does not have the tradition of thinking: that there is confined air in the visiting room, that prison officers unpack and destroy the fine paper on the gift of mother or father, that there are strict restrictions on talking on the phone, that they cannot walk in the woods, go to cinema or participate in birthdays together. I am very pleased that the Council of State will now assess a law, and that he also clearly signals the need for cooperation with other public authorities and non-governmental organisations. I would like to ask the Council of State to take into account the experience of healthcare, and it was also the Council of State within its posts. Then there must be an understanding of the arrangement that is the same in all prisons, and it must have a clear management anchor. In the health sector, there is now much talk about patient progression. Maybe you could think of something similar in criminal matters? I look forward to the debate here in the Chamber and the recordings that will certainly come, which the Minister and the Department can take with them in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e909	I'm going to take with me the experience of working on this kind of thinking from health care. I think it's absolutely crucial. But at the same time, I just want to use the opportunity now to say that it's amazing how far you can get with quite simple tools. In a day-to-day environment where, when discussing criminal policy, one thing – the resources of the police – is essentially focused on one thing, it is important that we in the Stortingen can have these kinds of debates to highlight the need to also use resources in this field. We get so infinitely too little. When you have chosen to spend some money in the last few years – and I hope it will also come forward more – it is because we see that the children are getting better, and that the relatives are getting better too. There are also questions about how far we are going to stretch the work in this field, where some people might want to bring with them relatives in general. But it is absolutely vital for those who are at home, and especially for the small ones, that we think more systematically than we have done. I also stress that one of the four important sources of preventing relapses mentioned in the Storing Communication, in addition to treatment, education, housing, work training and some cultural measures in prisons, is the social network. To the voices that will claim that criminal care is too mild and soft, I just want to fight back and say that these are also measures that make it easier to rehabilitate people. It is, in my opinion, a good dose prevention, even for the small ones, that the best possible management of a very difficult situation is achieved. That's why we've chosen to spend a lot of resources on this. I mentioned the houses and apartments with accommodation – i.e. at Ringerike, Halden, Bredtveit, Bergen and Åna, and I know more during planning – the visiting facilities at Oslo prison, where it is set at 10 million. kr for better visiting places, this with open days, the sound of the reading project, information material like How are you feeling? which was a printed paper which we at least participated in, and, not least, the information booklet of the Fangers Family Association. We've seen that there are quite simple instruments to do. A father went pilgrim with me when I went with the Bastray prisoners on the pilgrimage trail. He said he had been allowed to participate in the son's class to explain what happened. It had contributed to a good situation for the son. It turns out that these are pretty simple instruments. They can be tough there every now and then. It doesn't have to cost much, but it has to take initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e918	I would like to thank the representative Kari Henriksen, who, through this interpellation, places an incredibly important issue on the agenda, and, not least, thank the Fangers Association, the Children's Best, the Church's Bymission and everyone else who has contributed to giving these children a voice in the public debate. In St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008 a relative's story can be read: "I was a relative who needed help, now I'm going to fight for my child's rights to have decent visits of good quality. Her voice shall be heard. Every day we live with the shame that Dad is in prison. We've learned to keep our heads up and say that 'papers can be okay, even if they're in prison'. Our everyday life still reminds us that Dad is where he is. She asks, and I answer as best I can. 7 miles ahead, 7 miles back every Saturday, and the little body is happy and says tired in the backseat "my dad is best in the world." Those who are put behind the walls are being put by society, and also by us politicians, stamped as criminals. Too often we forget that they also have other roles in their lives: they have boyfriends, they have siblings, and many of them are moms or dads. If we're going to succeed in the repatriation work, we can't expect the inmates to pause their lives. Relations and networks are a success factor in the return of society. Then we have to look at relatives as a resource, and we have to do more to facilitate more and better family relationships. There may be a challenge in the criminal policy debate, where the focus is on stricter penalties and more security, and where a party believes it is a good idea to buy cracks from Sweden to put prisoners in Norway in them. Then it's good that we have a state council that stands by the storm. The Minister of Justice will also have to boast in order to increase the focus on humane criminal execution. This is a sensible prevention policy, but it is primarily about caring for the rights of children and the best of their children, because we know that the prison sentence for adults who are mother and father also affects the children. The survey The health and quality of life of relatives, from the Fangers Family Association, suggests that prisoners are severely affected by imprisonment, both economically and in terms of their own health, and we know that families with children are hit hardest. The study showed that almost half of the children had poorer health, in the form of sleep problems and behavioural changes, after their insertion. Many children are struggling with rest, struggling with guilt, when one of their parents disappears from their lives. That's why we need to do more to make these children grow up better. It is important that a most normal family situation be created when visits are to be made. It can be about things as simple as making food together, and that way creating good memories. The red-green government has done a lot in this area, and several measures have been taken. All prisons are required to have a visitor’s room, and more and more prisons are receiving their own homes. The role of parents can be difficult when you are in prison. Therefore, it is good that many prisons offer father groups, life courses, and excursions with the children of the prisoners. It happens very well, and with St. reported. No 37 the government has worked out a proper and good course. But there is a need for more systematic and overall development. We cannot accept that for some children the offer is better than for others, depending on where the parents are in prison. Then the proposal of a child-responsor in all prisons is a good and proper idea to increase competence, to keep it in focus all the time, and to make it more systematic that there are people who are responsible for the children and their rights. The red-green government has outstretched the course. We have launched a lot of good measures. Now we have to make sure to keep the pressure up. Human punishment shortens the path back to society, but it also makes children's lives easier and better. Efforts for these children will also help prevent crime. It will bring a worthwhile life and a socio-economic gain because it has a preventative effect. Once again, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, and also the Minister of Justice for the good signals he has given in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e942	As others have been involved, there is a very important problem that the interpellant addresses. There is broad agreement in this Chamber and among the political parties that children are, in fact, also victims of the criminal act committed by one of the parents – and they are very innocent victims, who have certainly not done anything wrong, who cannot do anything because one of the parents has done anything criminally, and they must certainly not be punished for it! We in the Progress Party also agree that action is needed to improve the response of children to such a situation and to provide children with an almost normal situation, even if a parent is employed. What is important to look at and care for are children’s needs and wants in such a situation. We have to remember that there are many different types of criminals, and there are many different types of crimes committed by parents that make them go to prison. I think it's important to differentiate what kind of crime has been committed in order to get a right offer for those children. For example, when a parent: have killed the other parent, the imprisoned parent still has the right to co-exist with the children, even if the children may not. We also have criminal cases in which a convicted parent has the right to coexist with the children. In several situations, it turns out that the children absolutely will not meet this parent, nor should they be forced to do so. The children's needs and wishes are to be met, and it is the children's best job is always to work for in such situations. It will also be a little strange if a prisoner who has children is given too much benefits and special arrangements that can be provocative to other prisoners and criminals. But don't get me wrong, I'm busy – and the Progress Party is busy – that children who have parents who are imprisoned should have the most normal conditions possible, and that they should have a follow-up that allows them to also have an approximate normal life. But we must also see that there are other aspects about it and that it can have consequences, create precedent, for others. So I just want to say at the end that it's sad that someone in a debate with such a serious theme is trying to get ahead cheap points and draw something out of whole things. When the representative of Håheim makes it clear that the Progress Party wants to get cracks from Sweden to zone in, the representative is sadly aware that it is drawing it a little far – it is drawing it out of proportion. We have not said that we should have brackets for normal housing in Norway. This is for foreign criminals going out of the country, and it has nothing to do with prisoners who have children or are Norwegian citizens to be returned to society. To draw such parallels I find sad in such serious matters. Finally, the Progress Party has supported many of the measures taken to ensure that young people are well placed in prison. We are also one of the parties supporting the Fangers Association's activities and Wayback's activities, organisations that are important for both prisoners and relatives to have the most normal life possible, and that they should have the opportunity to return to society as law-abiding citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e955	First, I would like to say that it is very good to hear an article that is not a typical politician's post, which I think the representative Henriksen held when she held her opening post. It was a deep, honest and good post that we need more of in this room. This is an incredibly important topic. So as many people have been involved, there are several victims in a criminal case. Not only is the victim subject to crime, but relatives and children are indirect victims by putting Mom or Dad in prison. Life behind the walls is in many ways still, but it definitely does not make life outside. If you have committed a criminal act, it means that you have done a criminal act and have to take responsibility for it. But that doesn't necessarily mean that you're a cruel person on absolutely every other level, for example. not as a parent. Several have indicated that voluntary and non-profit organisations in this field are doing a great job – several of them are in the gallery. In some cases, they also do a job that the authorities should actually do to restore prisoners, trying to keep some of the networks they have, or trying to get outside. Although the increase in recent years has been good, it's like a lot of these live from hand to mouth every year. A little cheaply, it sometimes sounds as if they have to work for 100,000 kroner to apply for 150000 kroner afterwards. So you can sometimes ask questions about how we prioritise between public and private. While it's okay to get large sums into the big public systems, it's extremely difficult sometimes to get half a million more things that we know work, for example. to help children by prisoners in Norwegian prisons. Children are totally innocent if Dad or Mom are in prison. But otherwise in society, very few treat these children as completely innocent. There are many examples from school, kindergarten and other places that we adults say, "From that family there, yes, something else could almost not be expected." And when, for example, Children in kindergarten become unactive or quarrelling at school, we can say, the apple doesn't fall far from the trunk. After all, the father or mother is in prison. It kind of explains everything. Then, as pointed out by the interpellant, it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. The child becomes exactly the child that someone thought it was, because it happens to have a mother or father who has done something stupid, something serious, and is in prison. So attitudes to fellow humans apply to everyone. It's about school, about health care, child protection and every one of us, that we don't demonize people, neither in public debate nor in conversations, and that we sometimes think that there are people who have done a criminal act, but that they in 90 pst. of their lives are not completely destroyed or shaken people, but people who actually deserve respect that they are human beings and not just prisoners. For almost six years I have heard, for example. The Fangers Retirement Association is broadly the same every year. There have been allocations. But I want to go back to the point and challenge a little bit about how we're going to get a better balance between what's happening in the clean and cutting criminal care system, and not least in the direction of volunteers. Without strengthening the volunteers and those who work with an additional 'illegal responsibility', we will never succeed in creating safer societies for children of prisoners or a better society for those who are imprisoned and to be repatriated to society. Safe people, what is it? Safe people are the ones who feel safe on themselves. Safe people are the ones who are safe with other people. And how do we get safe? Most of us become confident that we have a family that looks after us, that we're pretty good at school, that we have cultural opportunities around us, and that we're able to handle everyday life. Very few of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons do just that. But a prerequisite for building a safe person from the ground up there is that they have the opportunity to have contact with those who stand them – most likely – all, most closely, and that the children, who are innocent victims, have the opportunity to keep in touch. In such a debate, it is quick that we are all touched by our own words. We think we're saying very well, that children are important and so on. That's why it's incredibly important that we don't just let it go with words that we think it's very nice that this case is going to travel, but that we actually jointly raise this debate to where it belongs, so that we don't just feel a lot, but that we do a lot too. I want to end by saying that the red-green government has full support from absolutely all the parties here in the hall, including the Right Party and the Advance Party. I fully agree that it is not really appropriate to come up with the kind of fracturing devices that we are talking about, as the representative of Håheim did. It was quite unnecessary, not least because the representative's own party thinks it's quite okay to use cracks, or so-called pavilions, in the case of school buildings where there's a lack of capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e976	This is an important debate, and we must be very careful, but it must nevertheless be allowed to point out political disagreements in this area as well. Let me start by thanking the interpellant for the initiative. I feel that there is a far greater and positive focus on the situation of the prisoners' children today than a few years ago. Let me also praise all the volunteers who do a great job for these children, and therefore also for people who are in prison. We know that children come innocent in a situation where father or mother — mostly father — has to go to prison. And we know that in many situations the condemned one has bad advice, is poorly socially integrated, it's drug abuse, and he has a dysfunctional family from before. When Father has to go to prison, all this is reinforced for children. In our society, we count almost everything and have an overview of almost everything, except for one thing, and that's how many children have fathers in prison, and vice versa – how many fathers have children outside prison. It's important to get an overview, because if we don't know how many children are out there, we can't help parents and children to stay in close contact with each other. We know that it is important primarily for the children – this is a right-holders issue – and that the contact between the children and the parents can affect the choice and progress of the prisoner. That's why I think it's important that we manage to get an overview of how many children have fathers in prison, and use this in the further work. It's doing a very good job around in our prisons. Bergen and Ringerijk are very good examples of how to facilitate good contact between the prisoner and his or her child. Other prisons should learn from and move on with this. We have Dad in prison, a program that a lot of prison uses, and those who don't use it should learn something from. I agree that we should look at how one person can be responsible for following up on children's realization of their rights. There we have good examples from Sweden, and we should look at that and learn something from it. It is important that we know what rights children have, and that someone then makes sure that those rights are realised. Many prisoners have poor advice in the first place. When Dad suddenly gets in, the bad economy gets further strengthened. Then it will be difficult for very many children and families to visit this father, who is largely in a prison far away from the T-course on Sinsen, to say it like that. It costs a lot of money to visit Dad and realize a right. Again: I think we should be able to look forward to this. It's very good that there's a lot of focus on children. They deserve it absolutely, and the families do it. But it's more than the children and the absolutely closest family, that is. The spouse, we should spend time on and focus on how they are doing, for example. mothers who have their sons in prison. It's an equal feeling for a mother of a son to experience that the child is behind the prison walls. And all of this we have to look at in two perspectives. One is the people behind the prison walls. They're people, they have needs, they have desires, and they're going to come back to society. That's the other thing, to make sure they have good contact with their family. It affects their choices in a positive direction, and it gives us two gains: that this human being, hopefully, makes the right choices for his own life, and that there will be a better person when he, basically, comes back to our society – because that's what he's going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e995	The interpellant takes on a very important theme. Prisoning is a burden on the prison itself, but children in prison may feel at least as bad. Criminal services should not only be punishable, but also, to a large extent, prevent them from returning later. These are tried in many different ways, depending on the problems and needs of the individual groups. The last paragraph of the word "criminal care" points out that we have to keep in mind that we are dealing with vulnerable people. So it's not just about punishing, it's about caring. Of course, all adults in prison are not vulnerable. There are some hardcore criminals. But most deployments – and their relatives not least – benefit and need positive follow-up by both their closest and public authorities. Many inmates have kids, and when they are released, they should be parents for these kids. Volunteer organisations make a tremendous effort to make the transition easier. The Minister of Justice has already highlighted important measures for young people who have parents in prison and for those who are in prison, which can improve their ability to be good parents. One should not stigmatise by claiming that the majority of prison sentences and prisons in Norway are poor parents, but sometimes have a great potential for improvement. Better young people and their follow-up will serve at least two purposes: first, to improve their quality of life if they escape insecurity and feel ashamed of the situation here and now. Secondly, it can prevent some children of inmates from becoming criminals themselves. Good growth conditions are important to prevent a criminal loophole. Often we now know that psychiatry and rushes are inside the image. Our international obligations through the Children's Convention give children equal rights to other kids to have contact with their parents. Of course, there are practical obstacles to this, but it is evident that we can facilitate better contact between children and prison parents. I can't see that the rehabilitation work during a prison stay will be easier if they are deployed and their children experience a lot of problems, rarely can they talk on the phone and meet under low-proprietary conditions. Good measures have been taken here, but more can certainly be done. But here I share Mr. Örsal Johansen's thoughts on right of cohabitation after killing and special situations. There is something that needs to be assessed separately. Finally, I would like to point out that the Minister of Justice will assess the child custodians in all prisons. I think that's a good idea. We'll be a long step forward if the perspective of children's best becomes an integral part of the thinking of criminal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1010	Thank you to the debaters who have spoken on this matter. I think it's been a very good debate. It shows that these are important issues, which I also heard were mentioned in the previous case, on which we largely agree, but which are nevertheless important to debate in the Stortinget. The Minister of Justice was concerned with this with resources – and I support him on it. The experience he's referring to shows that there's a lot to do with little. It's not always that calls for more money, more people and better resources are necessary to get quite far. In Kristiansand, they have already begun work on planning a child contact in prison. They do because they see that it's important, and they see that it gives good results. They also see that it is necessary to rehabilitate those who are going to have their punishment, but also in view of the children, so that they will not suffer later. The representatives of Håheim, Oktay Dahl and Klinge were concerned about this with rehabilitation in the fields of crime, drug addiction, mental health, and also the link to working life, and more were involved in the poor living conditions. It is clear that when the prisoners have little connection with the working life, they lose the opportunity to create their own values and values for their family. Although we agree on most things, I believe that the red-green policy of working life will be much better for both prisoners and the family of prisoners in real life. So Ørsal Johansen drew up a very important point, and that's all of the dilemmas that criminal care is affected by -- the relationship between parents and children, the relationship between spouses, and justice within prisons. It's hard, but that doesn't mean we don't have to do anything. Justice is not for me that everyone is treated the same, but that they are treated according to the needs of the individual. The representative Chaudhry was involved with this with registration and the relationship perspective in a further setting. It's also important to get involved, but at the same time I think it's important to start at one end. So I'm just going to give a tip: when I was working in the sector and I asked people when they came into our clinic about how many children they had, the mothers said exactly the number of children, but the fathers ignored. As we went deeper into it, it turned out that the fathers had a notion that when they were asked about how many children they had, it was they who cared for, but not those to whom they were father. It's just a tip to ask correctly when you're going to register. Then I'm going to end by supporting Octay Dahl and saying as you say in the South: it's not just good to say hallelujah – we have to do it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1028	I also fully agree that saying hallelujah can be nice, but we have to do it too. In fact, a cross-political majority in this Chamber has largely supported the measures outlined in St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, also in budgetary terms, when it has been decided to implement fully concrete measures. However, it is no more than to read the measures in the Storing Communication in order to see that there are several measures outlined there that remain in this work. This debate can, of course, help put pressure on it. In the debate, there were questions about the grant scheme and the economy for those living with one in the family who are in prison. The government chose to propose extended child welfare for those outside – it should be a good contribution. This also applies to what I have mentioned about the visiting rooms and houses. It is a cross of thought that when we took over in 2005, and got the difficult project Halden prison on the table, which finally cost 1.3 billion. So it was a piece that had been taken out to make it a little bit more reasonable, and it was the visitation home. Now we got it back in, but it says a little bit about what you prioritize when it comes to the piece – and when it's done hallelujah, to say it like that. So this is a debate and a side of criminal justice that we need to have the greatest possible pressure to implement the proposals in St.meld. No 37 — in addition to having a child-responsor in prisons. Finally, I would like to stress that the entire criminal policy must bear this in mind. That is why I would like to point out in particular the alternative criminal responses we have, where we have the opportunity to ensure that relatives and children have contact, especially in the case of shorter prison sentences, and that this contact is not disrupted. A 14-year-old boy who was subjected to violence by his father – he was a direct victim of the sea – was referred to the Trondheim conflict council, in that family violence project there, which is very good. He was asked what he wanted. He was a direct victim and also a child. He did not want Dad to go to prison, sail if most of us would immediately think it when someone commits violence against children, and he replied that what he wanted was that the family would function again. So it's important to keep in mind that we're thinking about alternative criminal reactions. I take with me the signals that have arrived in Stortinget today. They're good to have when we're going to design new laws. I hope to come back quickly, so that we among other things. have a change in the direction of getting child-responsors in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1041	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1057	I have been chosen to represent those who vote for me. That is why, today, I am going to build the case on a number of individual cases, but my questions to the Council of State should be of a general nature. I want to start with the following example: On 24 January this year I get an e-mail from a desperate woman. She's a Norwegian citizen, but she's married and has two children with a foreign man. She writes to me because her husband is now expelled. His crime is that he has worked and paid taxes in Norway illegally. So he has worked without a work permit. The wife writes that in four years' time the daughter has begun to become a night sweater, has developed anguish of separation and is crying in sleep every night. Just to say a little about the topic: All children are generally very well in Norway. That's very good. But I'm worried about the kids who are not doing well or who are being illegally – and perhaps unnecessarily – hit by our immigration policy in general and our expulsion practices in particular. That's why I've initiated this interpellation. I'm essentially going to focus on two different groups of children. One group of children is those who come to Norway because their parents or other adults have decided that they should live here and that, once they have been refused, accommodation in the country becomes illegal. The other group applies to kids where their mother or father has been expelled from the country. And in both cases, I want to ask how much children are going to suffer for parental or adult choices. First, about the expulsion of persons. I will first address the situation of young people who come to Norway because parents or other adults have decided that they should come here. Those who are allowed to stay, there is no problem with it, nor with those who travel after a refusal. It is those who are not allowed to stay, but still remain in the country, I will discuss. In the case of these children, there are particularly two questions I want the Minister of Justice to answer. First of all, does the Council of State think that children can be illegal in the kingdom? Should their residence be considered illegal when they are under 18 and are counted as children under all international conventions? The second question to the Council of State is whether people who have lived illegally in Norway throughout their childhood should automatically be sent out when they reach 18. Maria Amelie is so far a good example because she was brought here as a child. But she wasn't a little child. What if a child is eight years old when it comes to Norway, or maybe two years when it comes to Norway? Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that immigration policy considerations should go ahead of the fact that a person has lived his entire childhood in Norway? Does the Council of State think it is right to volunteer for expulsion when you turn 18, even though you may never have lived in the country you are then expelled to? Where does that limit go? And is there at all any limit to those who have lived their whole lives in Norway? Just this issue, Norway is now facing the human rights court with regard to Abbas and Fozia Butt, where parents have filled out mistakes and made mistakes, having great consequences for children who have lived almost all their life in Norway. To me, it's an important principleal debate. For me, as a left-wing person, it's about me being in a liberal tradition from Johan Castberg's 'castberg children', who established a fundamental principle, that we should never judge children for adults' choices. The times we've done it in history, we've been ashamed of ourselves afterwards. So to the second theme, that goes on parental expulsion. There we get a lot of enquiries from women and men who are concerned when their child experiences being forced apart from their parents. Let me clarify one thing: I am not discussing here the practice of expulsion in the event of a criminal offence. I think that is a fundamental and important principle. But working without a work permit is not a violation of the penal code, it is a violation of the Foreign Affairs Act, and I believe that there should be a distinction between a violation of the penal code and a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. A former State Secretary stated in 2009 that it should commit serious crimes in order to expel a toddler’s father or a toddler’s mother. I agree. I think it violates the common sense of law for people in the streets that they experience that offences of criminal law and foreign law are treated equally. I've been going through these matters carefully, and my opinion is not a criticism of UDI and UNE, which I believe makes the right decision. My criticism is of the policy, and of the basis for the decisions they take. I also want to mention some examples here, first of all an expulsion decision taken by UNE in 2010: here the man, who has Norwegian wife, two Norwegian children and one stebarn, is expelled. The man has not been illegally in the kingdom, but the alienation authorities have refused family reunification because his identity has not been clarified. At first UDI said that the birth certificate was not enough, and that he needed passports. Then he obtained a passport, but not by personal appearance. According to UNE, the passport has not been ‘adequately noted and therefore cannot be used as sufficient evidence of the complainant’s identity’. Family reunification was therefore refused. UNE has then assessed whether a man can still be allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis and indicates that the best interests of children should be a fundamental consideration, but that emphasis can also be placed on immigration-regulating considerations. The man has been legally resident in Norway since 2004. He has a wife and a child, but UNE believes that ‘this does not give him such an independent relationship with Norway that he is authorised under this provision’ — i.e. stay on a humanitarian basis. So living so many years in Norway, being married to a Norwegian woman, having two children in Norway, it's not related to the kingdom. The decision states that ‘in the meantime, contact with the family will be possible by letter and telephone’. Then I would like to ask my new father, and the Minister of Justice, if he thinks it is sufficient to have contact with a ten-month-old baby via letter and telephone. I also want to mention a case of expulsion due to illegal stay. A man from Nigeria, Michael, was denied his asylum application in 2006. Instead of going home, he was in Norway, because he had met a Norwegian woman he had fallen in love with. They had children, decided to travel to Nigeria, married, and applied for family reunification from there. After one year, the rejection came. UDI did not find the period he had stayed and worked illegally in Norway, which counted, so he was expelled for five years. This is not a criminal act that has been tried to hide either. It is very easy to find out that people have stayed here, paid taxes and followed Norwegian laws while they were here. But UDI then chooses an expulsion decision, for general prevention reasons, and believes it is far more important than the child’s concern. So how much is it really going to take to ensure that the child's interests are taken care of? Comparing things is hard. But we in the Left have noticed that when you create your own legislation to adapt it to Marie Amelie, you focus on the needs of industry for labour. So it's clear that the government here chooses to have a practice where you use the Foreign Affairs Act to take care of business interests, but you choose that immigration policy considerations should be much heavier than children's concerns. And I have to say - cf. Our document 8 proposal on criminal asylum seekers – that it is quite provocative to experience that one cannot get action against those who commit crime, but honest people who are here and work and pay taxes should be persecuted. Summary: I think there are two challenges. Does the Council consider that the time when children live illegally in Norway should count, or should it not count, when to decide on a humanitarian basis, and how old should children be before they suffer for adults’ choices? And the second: how much should general preventive consideration count when children are involved? Is the Council open that we may have gone a little too far in creating examples that it is not worth staying illegally in Norway, when we see what consequences it has for children?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1093	I thank you for the interpellation. I just want to say in the beginning that, to the extent that it was true that the interpellant said that for convicted persons, no execution of decisions is possible, while the opposite is true for children, I would strongly draw attention to the results descriptions for the Foreign Office of the Police from last year. The group that certainly experienced what is the tough, hard core of government policy, that of sending out people who have been rejected or expelled, was very much the ones who were convicted, it was the ones who were hit. I think it was over 700 pieces, so here you really chose to prioritize this particular group. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is central to all aspects of the administration’s management of foreign affairs involving children. I have to take this on a general basis, it's hard to go into individual matters, including those that the interpellant is presenting here today. This includes the principle that the best interests of children should be of fundamental importance. That doesn't mean that's the only consideration. When assessing what is best for the child in a case, the foreign authorities will often face a number of dilemmas and, in practice, difficult balances, which also make it difficult to be general about where the border is going, which the interpellant repeatedly tries to challenge me. It would, in my opinion, deprive a very much of the discretion that must lie there, which is actually also for the protection of children. The concerns of children in expulsion cases were carefully assessed in the context of the drafting of the new Foreign Affairs Act and the regulation. It is explicitly stated in the law on expulsion that in matters relating to children, the best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration, in order to raise awareness of this. A provision was also introduced that the entry ban should, as a general rule, be made for a limited period of time if the foreigner has children in Norway, with whom he has lived for a long time with or has engaged in a certain amount of association, etc. and this shall continue to be the situation. I believe it is important that the legislation takes care of the best interests of the child, but this cannot be regulated exhaustively, as an individual discretionary assessment is to be made in each case. There will be a role to play there; the child’s situation will play a role; the child’s situation in the country to which you may need to return will play a role. These are difficult, discretionary considerations that foreign authorities are set to take, but which will obviously be based on discretionary and individual facts, and which will make it difficult to say that here goes the limit in these matters. I believe it is important that the legislation therefore takes care of the best interests of the child. But this cannot be regulated exhaustively. The specific assessments in individual cases concerning children and the best interests of the child are made by UDI and UNE — on which the interpellant was involved. A thorough assessment of all aspects of the child’s situation which may have an impact on the case shall be carried out. It is also necessary to consider the need to obtain additional information to give the best possible information. The Convention on the Rights of the Child does not provide an absolute directive on the weight to be given to the best interests of the child. It seems fairly obvious that for many children who come to Norway, or are born in Norway by foreign parents, an isolated assessment of the child’s best is that the best thing is to grow up in Norway. But as most people will understand, it will not be possible for us to implement this as the only criterion when considering these matters – sail if we would never want it so much when we see the individual issues. Therefore, the Convention on the Rights of the Child does not provide an absolute directive on the weight to be given to the best interests of the child. States are obliged to assess the best interests of the child, not as the only relevant consideration, but as the fundamental consideration. The fact that the best interests of children are fundamental does not mean that they are always decisive. The closer balance between the best and opposing interests of the child, such as: in the light of the specific nature of each case, the importance of controlled and regulated immigration. We can read that from the decisions. I have a hard time seeing that it can be different in this area. Sickness with regard to the child’s best in isolation indicates that the child’s mother or father is not expelled from Norway can legitimately legitimise a decision on expulsion. Nevertheless, according to established practice, more will be done to expel foreigners who have children in Norway. The best interests of the child mean that more than one condition that would otherwise result in expulsion is imposed or that the entry ban is limited in time. In the last year, the Ministry of Justice has made two changes to the expulsion legislation in the interests of children. In the summer of 2010, provision was made for persons who have children in Norway and who have worked illegally here for less than two years, as a general rule, not to be expelled on this basis. In the past, this was only the case in the case of illegal residence. Furthermore, a provision was introduced in March of this year that, as a general rule, the entry ban should not be set at more than two years when the foreigner has children in Norway and has been expelled because of a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. The Ministry of Justice will also assess the possibilities for reactions other than expulsion for minor infringements of foreign law. This is reflected in the Ministry’s implementation plan for the foreign field from December 2010 and is to be further investigated. I therefore believe that today's legislation and practice are consistent with our obligations under the Children's Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1119	I thank you for the answer, sailor, if I don't think it was just an answer to the things I asked for, and that is not actually experienced out there as the Minister of Justice is now presenting it. There will soon be separate organisations for those affected by this. I think that most of the Nordics think that you find someone happy who doesn't live in the EEA area, and you do everything right and fill out forms and get married, at least when you have children, you have to do a lot to split that family. I think the North is walking around and believing it. There are a lot of people who get a hard one – I don't know if it's parliamentary to say drag in the face, President, but at least they get a big meeting with Norwegian bureaucracy when they find it's not like that. I fully agree with the Council of State that children's best interests are to be governed by foreign law. It is almost all children’s best to live in Norway. But here it's about children who actually live in Norway, but who we're taking away the opportunity to grow up with a mother and a father, who they actually have biologically, and who wants to live with their children. It's okay to coerce criminals and punish them. I should have liked to have said something about it too – but I don't have time for that – because I feel that it is not done in a way that makes it permanent enough. My objection is the same as the Children's Ombudsman's when they presented their supplementary report to the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child of 2009 that any expulsion of a parent, even limited expulsion of two or five years, will have major consequences for the child. We have a number of things. I want to say that every week I get enquiries from people who experience that they have broken their family life, either because of bureaucracy, or because of the matter that I mentioned in relation to Cameroon, or because you perceive it so that you have found an honest and decent person who has only worked a little too long in Norway to do things properly. One would like to discuss immigration policy and immigration-regulating considerations, but my appeal is that children should not suffer for the choices of adults. When we see children being brought here – children are also kept hidden as illegal immigrants – adults’ choices become very crucial for the future of their children, and we condemn them for literally being on the sidelines of adults. In addition, we condemn families to divorce, not because they have done something criminally wrong – cf. previous interpellation – but actually because we have a code that doesn’t value children well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1134	The President is not quite sure whether 'trafficking in the face' is the most parliamentary expression, but we have heard worse here from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1137	Yeah, I guess we can handle it. I record that the interpellant does not believe that I am answering questions, but it is therefore the interpellant that I am trying to answer. There were a number of questions in the article that relate to very specific issues, and that really relate to what is difficult in the design of this type of legislation, namely that we might want as much as possible very clearly defined limits. I want to warn you a lot about such thinking, because I think it could also help to hit children, and that the only way we have in this is actually to have the discretionary provisions that you have in the law. I would also like to challenge the interpellant a little bit to dwell on the question of whether it is such that, with regard to the decisions taken by the foreign authorities, all the more immigration regulatory measures and considerations when there are children in the picture should be almost set aside. This will involve major problems for us, which I am convinced will not be for the child's best either. So sometimes it will actually be more appropriate to look at how we can get to a faster handling of these issues and better implementation of the decisions to be taken. This will include, among other things: be the subject of the great news that has been announced to the Stortinget, which will come to the autumn and not now in the spring, about children on the run. So how can we better deal with these things in this group, faster, so that you actually minimize the pressure on children, which it's not possible to hide is in a difficult situation? Then I will also challenge the interpellant to comment at least on the changes that I point out have been made in the legislation as late as the summer of 2010, and on the issue of the entry ban, now in March, where you just want to strengthen the situation of children. It is Section 14-2 of the Foreign Regulation and, in the case of expulsion, Section 14-1 of the Foreign Regulation, which shows that this has been the subject of attention, which makes it possible for someone to be better qualified than it was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1148	It's an important topic that's being addressed in the interpellation, although I'm aware that the Council of State has notified, and repeated it now, that there's going to be a separate message about children on the run. In this context, it will be important to address the fundamental questions related to this. It's a little difficult to comment on the interpellation, because it's based on a lot of simple cases and individual cases. For us who work on asylum matters, it is very tempting to base the version that one is presented. But very often we get a different answer if we get more information about the matter. It is often the challenge in this type of debate that it may seem that injustice is often committed, but when one goes closer to the discussion that the foreign authorities have done, one finds that there was actually perhaps a reason for the decision to be as it was. Although the Right is not a warm supporter of the Foreign Affairs Department and the system adopted by the Stortinget at the time, depriving itself of the political responsibility for the final decisions in some of the principal and important asylum and immigration issues, we trust that the assessments that are being made suggest that the best interests of children should be taken into account. Me and the Right are pleased that the changes presented by the Minister of Justice have come in. It helps to strengthen the legal position of children, while I see that in many, many cases difficult decisions have to be made. These are cases of doubt, but we are of the opinion that this is largely well maintained, and it is generally seen that the best interests of children are taken care of within the law we have. I look forward to the debate we are going to have on the new, notified message. Then we can go deeper into many of these issues. I think it's important that the Left has the strong commitment to these questions. We have recently discussed a Document No. Eight proposals from the Left, one of the proposals just put forward with children's rights in relation to asylum legislation. The right is concerned that we should have legislation that is strict, i.e. that it can be verified and that there is a regulatory framework that does not allow too much discretion either. But the fact that within certain frameworks, of course, there must be a sloop that gives room for human concern is quite obvious. At the same time, it is important to remember that those who come through family reunification represent a very large proportion of those who stay in Norway. One is almost surprised when one sees that of the foreigners who live in Norway, refugees and asylum seekers make up less than 20 pst. It is well, while family reunification, labour immigration and other groups are the deciduous largest group. Maybe we should think a little bit about when we're going to discuss these questions in the future, is that very much of the political focus is on those around 10-15 pst. refugees and asylum seekers coming to Norway, while perhaps a little too little of the focus is on how we follow up the 80–85 pst. coming here on a different basis, e.g. migrant workers and their rights related to language training and other things. It's an important debate, but the substantive proposal and changes I expect we'll have the opportunity to discuss when the big message is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1163	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate here in Stortinget. How the best of children is reflected in our asylum and immigration policies is something that deserves great attention. In my post, I want to focus specifically on two groups: long-term children, and children who disappear from reception without being able to account for them. Initially, I would venture to make the claim that it may seem that the government is letting children's interests give way to immigration policy considerations. The children are hit when the government comes into competition to have the most stringent asylum policy in Europe. In the spring of 2007, changes were made to the foreign regulations, so that special emphasis was given to children’s relationship with the state. This came into place on the initiative of the Christian People's Party. Unfortunately, the government has tightened up this regulation. When children who have been here for four to five years are raised in the middle of the night and expelled from the country together with the rest of the family, it is difficult to see that this change in regulation that came in 2007 is followed. After all, the change in the regulation highlighted the need to strengthen the child’s relationship with the country. Expectations were created when the Council of State went into the Evening Post last year and expressed concern about the best care of children in Norwegian asylum policy. He said that three years in a child's life is like an eternity. At the same time, he announced that a message would be sent about children on the run before the summer of 2011. The Christian People's Party shares the concerns of the Council of State and is anticipating what the government will notify in this message. Children who have stayed in Norway for a long time and have been well integrated must be allowed to stay after a given number of years, also because it is not best for children to be punished for mistakes made by their parents. That is what is used today. The Christian People's Party hopes that there will be a change in practice that will make children's relationship with the country more important, as was the intention of the change that came in 2007. In addition to children in general foreign affairs and taking into account them, a group of children are in a special situation: children of prisoners to be expelled. The rights of these children must also be respected. They must be given the opportunity to speak. Today’s case-handling practices do not exercise this right towards children with deportees. Over the last ten years, between 300 and 400 children have disappeared from Norwegian reception. This is an asylum child who has come alone. They disappear without being able to explain where they are or what they've been advocating. This is serious. There is also reason to assume that many of these children may be exposed to human trafficking, or slavery, to call a spade a spade. This is unworthy and totally unacceptable, something we cannot be aware of in Norway. According to figures from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, about 1.2 million children become victims of trafficking in human beings every year. Children’s slaves are often used as domestic workers, in the sex and drug industries, as workers in shops and restaurants, such as beggars and handkerchiefs. We know that Norway is both a destination country and a transit country for human trafficking. Several criminal networks that organise human trafficking operate in Norway. In addition, it has been discovered that Norway, together with Sweden and Denmark, is used as a transit country by children’s smugglers. These include: on this basis there is reason to fear that many of the children who disappear from reception are exposed to slavery. Action needs to be taken immediately. We need to intensify cross-border cooperation. We need to put in place a separate action plan specifically aimed at children who are victims of trafficking in human beings. We should put in place a specialised police unit that only works with human trafficking and children, because special knowledge and skills are required to work on this topic, just to mention some measures that should be taken. The Christian People's Party has great expectations that this too will be given great space in the message of children on the run. I know that the Council of State is concerned about the matter, and we are excited about how he will follow this up. Finally, in our asylum policy and practice, it is important to think that children are children, regardless of background. They are first and foremost children, then asylum seekers. They are the most valuable thing we have, and they deserve the best we can give them. Focusing on the best interests of children in our asylum practices should therefore be a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1191	The interpellant addresses an important theme. The core of the problem is what she herself says: It is almost in the interest of all children to grow up in Norway, because the vast majority of children in the world would have felt better in Norway. I understand that the representative Skei Grande has a genuine desire to improve the situation of children. But the changes in the rules she's calling for, to make children's best for a purpose that trumps everyone else's interests, will they make children's situation better or worse? Even today, we see examples of a child as a means for parents who want a better life. Children are smuggled and hidden, are part of transportation under the control of criminal networks, etc. I'm afraid the representative of Skei Grande is at risk of achieving the exact opposite of what she wants, that even more children are being used as a means. If we make children only as a means of deciding on the application for a stay alone, I am absolutely sure that we will see more of this. I think the representative Trond Helleland had a good job. He pointed out how difficult and complex these assessments are. The representative Svendsen claimed in his speech that the government is competing for Europe’s strictest asylum policy. It can't be undisputed. Norway is among the countries that accept the highest number of asylum seekers compared to the population. This is not the result of our leading Europe's strictest asylum policy, but the result of our pursuing a fair policy that underpins the need for individual legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1202	I'll first comment on two of the posts. First to Haugli: He could not possibly have heard what I said at the beginning, for I believe that it should not be the best of the children to be founded, for that is impossible. But I can say that when the Foreign Affairs Act was dealt with, the Left proposed in this Chamber: ‘The more important the decision is for the child, the more important it is to give priority to immigration regulatory considerations. A refusal on grounds of immigration regulation must be sound from a child law point of view.’;» ‘Responsible in a child’s law perspective’ was the concept we used, not that it should be for the best of a child. That's what we've done. That proposal got the votes of the Christian People's Party and the Left. So to Greece, I want to point out that I've been working on this field for a long time. I know there are different versions. All versions of this interlocutory have been checked against UDI's decision. So these are not e-mails that have been uploaded. I want to ask myself that you think we don't get it. We've been working on this for too long. I would like to end with four challenges to the Minister of Justice, based on what has been said, since the Minister of Justice is actually going to make a communication in this area. Firstly, it is possible to obtain an impact assessment on immigration policy considerations related to the impact on children. This is not about children who are either going to be here or not, but it's about children who get their families split up. Secondly, is it also possible to get a proper analysis of how many children are actually expelled for reasons of immigration policy? How many children are there in Norway today? Thirdly, the Left wants decisions that lead to family divisions, that mother, father and child no longer live together, be treated in full respect and treated by personal appearance – this is by the Foreign Affairs Act, and not by the penal code, which I believe is clearly distinguished. Fourthly, we believe that there must be a limit on whether children can be judged for the choice of parents, and that there must be a limit when those children have their own rights in themselves. As I said, the best thing for children can never be taken into account in any other law. Although the Children's Convention was incorporated when the Left was in government, it is not in that way that the Children's Convention can be understood. But I think there are limits to how long we should be able to judge children for the choice of adults. I believe that there should be serious grounds for immigration policy considerations, and that violations of the Foreign Affairs Act should be judged more harshly when you see all the children who become victims of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1229	I thank you for the recordings, also from the interpellant now on the tap. This is something we should take with us, and I understand that it may be okay to have a little more time on that big message when we get those requests. I'm taking that with me, because I don't want any doubt that I think all parties see the dilemmas in these matters. Here we're talking about a very difficult weighting as it's hard to define from the Storting pulpit. So to the representative of Svendsen's statement that we are participating in a competition on the strictest refugee policy: I kept saying that the more you say it, the more we become in many ways, outwards. But there is reason to stress, as also the representative Haugli did, that both in the reception of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers, young people coming to Norway, but also adults, this does not indicate that we have a practice that is the most stringent in Europe. At my discretion, it's completely uninteresting. The most important thing for us is that just the standards that we have laid down in the law, which also have its sound from the conventions, are followed, so that people get the rights they actually need. What is the situation of a policy that helps to get rid of this completely is that we do not get the targeted help towards those who really need it. It's a frightening scenario for me. That is why I think it is good that Norway accepts the number of quota refugees that we are doing, and that we have an asylum policy that helps to put the need for protection at the forefront. That's why I think it's so important that we also implement the decisions that people have been given that they don't need protection. In this way, there must be a poor contribution in a race for a strict refugee policy when one just demonstrates the changes that the government has chosen to make in the regulations during the last year. There are two changes to the foreign regulation. In the summer of 2010, we chose to make things easier for children, to be allowed to stay in Norway and to avoid expulsion. And when, as late as March this year, you choose to change the foreign policy so that imposing a ban on entry where there are children inside the picture, and where the illegal activities described in that provision have not been going on for more than two years – well, it is – just getting harder, then I've hurt to see that it's taking part in such a race as the representative Svendsen describes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1240	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1254	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1263	The issue we are discussing today is a Document 8 proposal from the Christian People's Party on full foster home coverage by 2013. A Joint Committee agrees on the need to put in place a sufficient number of good and stable foster homes and foster homes that last over time. In this work, it is important that private and non-profit actors can contribute to the recruitment of foster homes. That is why it is very positive that it became known today that Buffdir will announce tomorrow a competition for the purchase of foster home services among the ideal actors, in line with the comments made by the majority in the case. Both in the child protection field and in the foster home, there is a lot going on during this government. We gain more knowledge, including: Through studies among child-restraint children and foster parents, we look at the major challenges of evaluating the whole child-rescue reform, we need to assess the biological principle to see if the children's interest is sufficiently focused, we want to improve the conditions of state foster homes, and now we need to look further at the local authorities. In addition, we add more money to municipal child protection, which provides opportunities for more child protection positions. We're taking steps to clean up an area that has very big challenges and is responsible for a very vulnerable group. If we start with the number of children who have decided to stay in foster homes, 164 kids are waiting for foster homes as of 31 January 2011. This is a decrease from the previous year, when there were 180 children and young people in the same situation. There's still a lot of people waiting, but it's going in the right direction. I would like to stress that it is important that the young people are at the centre of the selection of offers, whether in a foster home or in an institution. That's exactly why it's so hard to say that we're going to have full foster home coverage. A free foster home is not always a good foster home for all children. The foster home is designed to take care of the individual child and therefore it will be difficult to have the most optimal supply available at any time. In addition to the use of ideal actors, a nationwide and regional recruitment campaign has also been launched to provide more foster homes. At least as important is the feedback from those who are already foster parents, where 92 pst. says it's tough, but it's worth it. A large majority also say that they could imagine becoming foster parents again, that they would take the same choice again, and that it actually gives more pleasure than anxiety to be foster parents. I want to take this opportunity to promise that very many foster families are doing a great deal to help children and young people who cannot live at home with their own parents. We need to focus on better family follow-up, and we need to look at the conditions of municipal foster homes. That is why a working group has also been set up to address this issue. An overall committee agrees on much of the most important thing, that young people should be at the centre, and that work to provide more foster homes should be intensified. Then we do not agree on all measures and instruments to achieve the goal. I want to say that there is good reason to give the government credit for the work that is now in progress, because it is doing a lot of good work. So I think we all agree that we have a way to go, because this is a very demanding field, where it's important that we have a good professional basis, and that we know what we're doing before we start the major reforms. Then it is not easy to take simple and easy decisions that seem to solve a more comprehensive problem. In the case, five proposals have been submitted, and further, the matter is proposed to be annexed to the Minutes, which the majority support. Otherwise, I expect the parties to promote their proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1294	All children and young people in Norway are entitled to care for stability, continuity and safety in growth. Child protection today helps many more than ever before. The government has strengthened child protection since 2005. Despite this, we still have challenges. The Labour Party believes that children under child-restraint care have a right to the provision of medical counsellors and good professional services. This is central to our child protection policy. It is serious that children have to wait for their foster home, for these children, who already have major challenges in their lives, need to get a good, safe and sustainable response as quickly as possible. We know well how decisive stability and sedentary frameworks are for all children. Especially will it be important for those kids who have had a rough start in their lives. What is absolutely crucial in a successful location is that the foster home is quality-resistant. We could not have had a queue today, if we had lemped on the quality requirements or if the children were placed in the most ideal home for just their needs. But for us, it's crucial that the kid gets a good qualitative foster home with the least possible risk of, among other things. moving — a home that is suitable for the child in question. Norway is one of the best countries in the world to recruit foster homes. That said, that doesn't mean that we accept that kids have to wait. That's why it's great, as the representative Ramsøy mentions, that tomorrow Bufdir will announce a competition for the purchase of state foster home services as a debt to non-profit actors. The role, competence and speciality of non-profit organisations must be valued by obtaining conditions other than purely commercial ones. As pointed out in the vote, the Soria Moria II Declaration states that the government will further develop the interaction between the public sector and voluntary actors and non-profit organisations, which are important contributors to our welfare production. In addition to this effort now under way, we need to work more on reputation building. I mean, the way foster parents are sometimes produced, especially in a lot of tabloids, doesn't help recruit more foster parents. When we look at the investigation, which is also referred to by the representative Ramsøy, we see that 92 pst. by foster parents think it is «thankful, but worth it» to be foster parents. That they will also recommend it to others is important to communicate. Many different measures have been taken in recent years to recruit new foster homes. Working with new methods, such as: Family councils have proved to be a very important and appropriate measure. The protection of children shall be assessed periodically whether it is possible to place children in the family or in the close network. As of 31 December 2009, 1858 children and young people were offered in foster homes in their own families. In fact, there are as many as 275 municipalities that have been trained in family councils and offer the method in their child protection work. It has almost been a triple in use, and in 2010 it was held up to 500 family councils. This shows that enhanced competence and quality in the use of new methods also have a great deal to say. Fosterheim is the most important care measure in the field of child protection. I am pleased with the Council of State's commitment and willingness to take action in this matter. In addition, we have a government that is busy right-wing about how the children are doing. For the first time, a user survey has been carried out on children in state foster homes. The study shows, among other things: that the young are well-being and that they feel safe. Of course, this study shows a lot more, and it is important to use it together with the investigation of foster parents to create the best possible supply. It is important to listen to those who are actually in debt; it is important to carry out such investigations; it is important to listen to those who experience the system, who experience the everyday life – and that is what we do. The most important crop in existence is growth. Contributing to safe, stable and good growth conditions for children and young people is a central policy of the Labour Party. I am therefore pleased that one now takes seriously the challenge of a lack of foster homes. When it comes to the measure of announcing a competition for non-profit organisations, we also have experience in cooperating with them from before. Targeted recruitment measures will help those who need their child protection services to get the qualitative help they need. I believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1311	It is an ambitious but good proposal that is being discussed here today – full foster home coverage by 2013. And then someone could probably say no, it doesn't matter, we'll never be able to make time, and we can't make it. But why don't you have a goal, why don't you be so ambitious with the kids this is about that we can set such an ambitious goal? Luckily, when I heard the previous talk, she said that we have challenges in child protection. It could almost sound as if everything worked now after this government has done so much well. But the situation out there is actually that we have an incredible number of kids in line waiting for foster homes. It's the building-up of institutions because we're going to have more of them in foster homes. But it's not always a good enough offer for the children who no longer get to live in an institution, because it's not foster homes for these children. That's why we have a big challenge in recruiting foster homes. It was a pleasure to read in the newspaper in Easter, for in the magazine there was an incredible advertising for being a foster home. It was a check reading, and I really hope that it has inspired many to make contact and make themselves available to the children who need it. Nevertheless, the alarming situation we have today, when we know that there are people in line, and when we know that there are a lot of unintentional movements of children. It's also a long wait. That is why, as the Council of State has also been involved, it is so important when we are going to recruit foster homes, to find the right and the good enough foster homes. Then it's important to have a mapping. It is important to have a solid and good home, which means that these children for whom the government has taken responsibility and are to move out have a home that can be a home over a long period of time. That's why we need a diversity. What I am stunning at is that we see that the government, when it knows that so many children are in line, is still going to launch a tender competition tomorrow where they are going to rule out everything that is called private actors, and just talk about ideal actors. It's good with ideal actors, but we're not going to get under the chair that there can be a lot of good private actors too who can do a good job for the kids who need it. That's why I think it's a big shame that we can't look at this so wide that we think of the best of children. It's a shame if there's good private foster families that don't get an offer to do this just because the government has an aversion to private. The most important thing in these tender documents must be that it is quality, that we ensure that it is quality and not always only price that is essential. Because we know that there are different needs out there for the individual children. The Committee has just arrived from a meeting with the Health Authority, an incredibly important and interesting meeting, which shows that there are many municipalities that do not do their job to the children who need it. There are many municipalities that do not follow, there are low reporting frequencies, they are not organised for cross-border cooperation, and there are insufficient regulatory knowledge. We know that almost 50 pst. of the children who are required to be supervised when in foster families do not have it. Sometimes it feels like when child protection has brought the children to the foster families, they forget them. That's why we have a long way to go about those challenges. There are many children who need help, so it is important that all politicians, at all levels, take greater responsibility. Politicians also in the municipalities may have to take a greater responsibility to look at the situation in their municipalities, when the Health Authority says that there are municipalities that say they did not know how bad it was for them. So I'll take up one thing at the end here, and it's: We need foster homes. But then it's time to ask a question. We know that there are a lot of grandparents, and there are a lot of aunts and uncles who want to be foster families. When Stortinget has said unanimously that we are going to use close family and relatives to the extent possible, it is sometimes doubtful to have grandparents on the phone asking: Why can't we meet our grandchildren? Why aren't we allowed to be foster families? We have to use all of the channels we can. There's a lot of grandparents and aunts and uncles out there who can really do a good job for the kids who need help. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1332	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1335	Today, we are probably having a debate on our most important and most precious, namely our children. Child protection is in place to ensure that all children who, for various reasons, need help or care from non-parents and the family for a period of time receive a safe and well-growth. All residents of Norway shall be confident that children have an auxiliaries that are ready to provide help quickly in order to meet the need for different reasons. In this way, the capacity and capacity of the Child Protection Service to carry out these important tasks is central. There are several numbers for how many children are in line at any time for foster home. The problem is one child in line is one too many. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party addresses this important matter, with which they have worked for a long time, and for which they had the hope of having a majority in this Chamber. Right supports all the good intentions of the proposal presented by the Christian People's Party. I am also pleased that the government appreciates the initiatives that the opposition has now taken to improve child protection, but I record that although we all work to improve child protection, we do so in a slightly different way. At the latest today, we could read in the Evening Post that the Council refuses private operators operating foster homes to participate in tendering procedures to operate foster homes. Governments refuse to recruit foster homes; at the same time, we know that there are many, many children waiting to have a home to live in, who do not have a home and a family where they can live safely. One would think that the government looked at different initiatives and different measures to provide these kids with a home. But rather than focusing on getting all the children who need it, a good and safe foster home, the government wants to use this matter for an ideological crusade against private actors. It surprises me that the government does not put the children and the children's best interests first in these questions. The right is concerned to ensure that all children receive good help in a timely manner. Then it is essential that we have many and varied offers to meet the different needs of the children. Therefore, we ask the government to make sure that the capacity available in private businesses is used and to provide foster homes for all children who need it. I hope that the government can put the best interests of children ahead of many of its ideological principles in the work on child protection in the future. Another challenge for child protection is working with multicultural children. It has been focused on increasing the competence of those working in the field of child protection with regard to children with a multicultural background. It is also important to recruit foster homes and support persons with a multicultural background in child protection in order to ensure that these children are entitled to a daily life as much as they would otherwise have. The identity and cultural background of children are important. This is why the Right has proposed that more people with a multicultural background should be recruited in order to meet children’s needs. It is therefore sad that the government does not want to support this proposal, but is voting it today. At Easter, the NRK reported that 3,000 of its foster children do not have regular conversations with their supervisor, as required by law. In the 2011 government budget, the government shows that in fact 11.5 pst. by foster home children do not have supervisors — there is a trend that has remained since 2009. I'm surprised the government doesn't do any more to change this. I would also have liked to have supported the opposition that stands together on these proposals, rather than always justify the importance of the ongoing evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1352	Child protection is essentially about some children needing a new home, home security, and adult people there who have a genuine interest and capacity and competence to do the job. The heavy responsibility this is, this government has taken very seriously and invested in child protection more than it has been for very many years, and that is necessary. When we're going to recruit foster homes – there's a need, and no one wants any children to stand in line to get a foster home – we need to do it based on the necessary and thorough competence. The government has started the job. This is absolutely necessary, because it has been difficult to recruit, among other things. minority parents, as the representative of Hofstad Helleland was up here and said. And how it's possible to read the government's answers to these questions as if you're not interested in it, is an interpretation that, to put it that way, other literacy experts wouldn't think of thinking that it was that you didn't think it was important. You've been working on it, but you're not willing to look at it, and you're not willing to look at the skills you're going to have to acquire to take some of the other important questions. So we've launched a recruitment campaign, and that's very important. It is Bufdir who is responsible for this, the department that some of the sharpest critics here today were willing to cut down by up to 1⁄2 billion. kr. Then I think one should be a little bit lower in his criticism of the lack of competence in this system and the lack of capacity in this system. Because that's what this is about, we have to enable this system to handle this difficult problem and recruit more parents. I am very happy that you now have to go through the situation of the municipal foster homes, because that is absolutely necessary. It is necessary to recruit many more and good foster homes, because we must have foster homes that fit more as hands in gloves also for the individual child. Because chemistry and competence are so important in these cases. I have also seen in the newspapers examples of very unprofessional recruitment of foster homes, where children have been advertised with images, and information that they are particularly handsome and pretty or nice to play football, or whatever it might be. I have also heard responsible politicians in Oslo go back on these campaigns and say that this took on their self-criticism, and I am very pleased about that. Because we have to recruit foster parents based on a different type of seriousness and a different type of longer-term responsibility and commitment than this. I am very pleased with what the Council of State and the government have now done in this area. No one from the government parties has said that we are in the target of this, or that the situation is so that everything is fine. On the contrary, we strongly advocate this, precisely because there is a need for it. That's why we've also earmarked money for the municipalities, just so that this money doesn't disappear into other things. That is why we have now started these great work to get the necessary knowledge to do the right grips and to recruit more foster homes – more good foster homes – for this very important work. So I hear that there are some people who are very concerned about ideology in this debate, very concerned that this should be a private market, and more concerned that it should be a private market for some, than that we should recruit those who are most competent and most concerned about this, without necessarily being a business area for some. I've worked closely with the voluntary sector all my life. There I find many of the most committed people who work with these kinds of questions and other kinds of questions, based on a genuine interest and an commitment that I believe we have great benefit from involving more in this work – perhaps especially in recruiting foster parents with minority backgrounds, because many of our minority-based inhabitants also have good contact with many of these volunteer organizations, and through that I am sure that we will reach several of them that we need so badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1371	On 3 February there was an inter-pelling debate on cultural policy in this Chamber. The Minister for Culture stated that: ‘As the inter-pellant refers to, cultural and volunteering has become for the first time as committed and hand-held as the investment in other areas. Our government is talking about the cultural promise, the long-term plan of defence and the national transport plan in the same breath. It has become a obligatory.’ The obligation is exactly what this case is about. The obligation of deadlines was the key to results in the field of culture, and the lack of commitment may be the key to understanding why more and more kids are waiting for a foster home. We have a government that knows how to commit when they give priority to a matter: ‘For me, it’s so important that you get rid of me if we don’t get this,” said Kristin Halvorsen to TV 2 in the 2005 election campaign and promised full child care coverage within two years. Yes, maybe it would have been best for countries and people if we had been rid of her, SV and politicians who throw out the big promises, but who reserve the commitment of the large electoral groups, where it is most to pick up in popularity and gain. The obligation through a clear deadline – it should – triggered resources in the kindergarten field. Prioritisation, political attention and creativity created a pressure to succeed. There are many older people in this country, and we will have full health care coverage by 2015, says the Prime Minister. I'm not saying that this isn't important for the red-green ones, I'm just saying that there's a lot of things that are more important. We are going to have obligations in relation to kindergartens, hospitals and the cultural field, but there is one thing the red-green politicians absolutely do not want, and it is a commitment with deadlines for those who lack a safe home, for those who lack a bed and who just say that they lack a mother and a father who can come in and give good nightsticks – those who lack the most important thing. They're waiting for the Audun Lighthouse. They're waiting for Jens Stoltenberg. I fear they'll wait a long time. What ministers spend their time on, they get answers to themselves. Indeed, an action plan for multiple foster homes has been delegated. It's Bufetat who's gonna fix it. These kids don't have to wait for Stoltenberg's New Year speech, for a political project, for a vision from a government, a commitment and a deadline – it won't come. There is a strange voting to be carried out in this case, and there are strange comments from the red-green side. Now in the debate it is said that it is so difficult to get full foster home coverage. Well, when the baby hail was set in motion, when Kristin Halvorsen gave his promise, there were 15 000 nursery places missing in Norway. It was actually refurbished on the quality to achieve it, but to a level that was thought to be sound. A significant part of the Committee's work has been devoted to the role of ideal actors in the recruitment and operation of foster homes. It is also strange to see young people who lack home and ideal actors with 100 years of experience in child protection who are knocking on the door of the council and asking to help get home to these kids, and then see a councillor who does not have the power to open the door. The door's on fire. I raised the matter in Stortingen's Question Time. The state council promised to take immediate action. Today it's 365 days since it happened. It's not an anniversary, it's almost a memorial of the empty words. It is clear from the letters of the Council of State to the Committee that there is still a meeting between Bufetat and the organisations. It's fine with dialogue. I don't measure any results in nice meetings. The results here are only measured in kids who get a home! One year has passed. A year is a long time in young people's lives. Then we are told in the evening post today that a tendering procedure should be launched. Finally – it's time! We don't know if it's larger than the activity that's already for the ideal actors. But again, there's a game of what kind of offers are to be put down now, while these kids are waiting in place. One aspect that needs to be mentioned is that it is reported at regular intervals that young people remain in institutions, not because they do not have foster homes, but because Bufetate is reluctant to move into homes that are already ready because homes are recruited by private – mostly non-profit organisations. An overall opposition expresses the fact that this is very critical and extremely serious. In fact, an overall opposition also finds reason to refer to the provision of the Child Protection Act — its practice — on the consideration of the child’s best interests and on the need for timely assistance and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1402	First of all, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for this Document 8, which I think is very constructive, and which I hope would have received even more support, sail if they had received a lot of support. Then I want to underline an aspect that may not have been drawn by so many people: if foster home works well, it also requires a child protection that works well in the first-line service. When I talk to people who have been foster parents for a long time, there's one thing that goes on, and that's that they've learned more than they've learned away, and they've got more than they've given. However, it is very often the quality of the first-line service that is crucial for their success. It is incredibly fine by being able to have one permanent person in child protection as a contact person, as a control authority, as a interlocutor, as adviser, for example. Over a long period of time in the growing up of a child, it helps to provide safety both for foster homes and for foster children, making this job much easier to do. Therefore, the Left has also been very concerned that the first-line service, i.e. municipal child protection, must ensure that there is stable and good labour and good resources to do that job properly. It is the key to making life as a foster parent much easier and to ensuring the legal certainty of the unborn child. That seems to me to be an important aspect, and it has been addressed in many of the other proposals. To put it that way: for the government, there is not exactly a lack of ideas from this hall at the grip you could take, which is the government's problem. There are numerous proposals in relation to this whole field that have come in recent years. But the field also bears a bit of the impression that we have changed the Council of State, and one must kind of start again each time. That's why I'm probably expecting this Council of State to have a little bit more speed than just starting over. There's a lot of people waiting out there to get good results. I just want to say that we in the Left support all the proposals that the opposition has put forward and will vote in favour of them. We're also going to make sure that if the Council needs more good ideas about things to do in the field of child protection, we want to be involved and contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1416	Children who need a new home are in a difficult and vulnerable situation. Our mission is to ensure that these children receive the security, stability and care they need. The foster homes are the most used placement option we have in child protection. More than four out of five children for whom public care has been taken live in foster homes. Therefore, the development and strengthening of foster homes is very important. The state foster homes, through the standard contracts introduced last year by the government, have had good framework conditions, and now we focus on the municipal foster homes. A working group has been set up to provide concrete measures to strengthen local foster homes in September this year. 164 children were waiting for foster homes on 31 January of this year. There's a drop of 16 kids from last year. On the one hand, we are happy that fewer children are waiting for foster homes, but we are not satisfied as long as some children still have to wait. In 2011, therefore, efforts to provide adequate foster homes will be stepped up further. A national recruitment campaign took place, among others: launched in nationwide media before Easter. If someone did not do such things as the representative Solvency Horne and had fun with the attachment in the newspaper at Easter, I have it with me here in case someone wants to look at it. This is an example of measures – pressed up in a circulation of over 300,000 – that we believe should be mobilising. We need skills development, thematic campaigns and cooperation on recruitment and training activities, and it is now at the heart of the recruitment work. Increased use of foster homes in the family and networks of the child is also an important objective. We need to recruit more ordinary municipal foster homes. Many NPISHs can make an important contribution to this. Voluntary organisations, especially those with communities spread around the country, have a wide range of networks in different environments that have not previously played a role in foster home work. Together, we can do an important job. In addition, we need competent foster homes for children with special needs. Many non-profit actors have long experience and considerable competence in the operation of foster homes. It's a competence that the government wants to take advantage of. Tomorrow, therefore, Bufdir will announce a competition for the purchase of foster home services. We set up a new system to provide more foster homes, while strengthening the role of ideal actors in child protection. This will include foster homes linked to the transition from institution to foster home for children as an alternative to further institutional residence. In addition, it will concern the recruitment of ordinary municipal foster homes. This competition will be reserved for the ideal actors. Through that acquisition, we follow up the promises of the government statement of cooperation between the voluntary and the public sector. Of course, all non-profit actors offering foster homes will not automatically get an agreement. The assumption is that they offer high-quality foster homes at the right price. But we hope that it will both help us get more foster homes than today, and that we can get more effort, mobilise the forces we know that the non-profit sector has. So it was said here that we exclude private actors. That's completely wrong! This is a round just for private. Nor is it that we exclude the commercial ones. But we think that the ideals have too little role in this work today, looking up to the potential it has. Today, Bufetat buys foster home services from private individuals for approx. 250 million. kr. Only approx. 50 of them come from ideal actors. Through a separate round of ideal actors, we believe that they can fill a larger part of the need. This, of course, does not mean that we cancel a single agreement that has been concluded today. And if, after the round of the ideals, it turns out that we need more, commercial ones will also be released into a round two. So this isn't about not wanting to use private actors. But it makes the distinction in welfare policy between the left and the centre on the one hand, which wants to focus on strengthening the ideal position, and the Right and Advance Party on the other, which wants first of all commercial well-being. We have a good dialogue with the ideal actors about foster home work. Ideal Children's Protection Forum has met with both Bufdir and political leadership in the Department this week on the theme. The feedback about the system we are now creating is positive. I look forward to further cooperation with Stortinget on this. Our goal is unambiguous: all children who need it will have foster homes. It's the government working with great energy to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1442	It is unexplained in the foster home code, section 4, that the child protection service should always consider whether someone in the child’s family or close network can be selected as a foster home. So we know that it's not always going to work. But then we also know that very many of these children need contact with biological relatives, grandparents, aunts and uncles or other relatives because they need this proximity, and they need to have contact with biological relatives even though they may not have contact with biological families. And then we've seen more and more examples of them not being used. Grandparents or aunts and uncles who wish to have contact must not have it because child protection has made a different assessment. The size has clearly stated that it is necessary to assess whether close family or relatives can be used. My question to the Council of State is: Does it mean that the obligation to assess child protection goes ahead of what the Storting has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1451	The population has never said that child protection should ignore the usual professional criteria for what is needed to be a good foster home. But the Storting has said that often it can be that we can find a good foster home in the child's close family, and if possible, child protection should try to find such a solution. And so does child protection. That's a pretty large proportion of the foster homes we have today, which are just in the child's original network or family. In the campaign we now have, we also attach extra emphasis to finding more foster homes in the child's close family. But of course, there can be no automaticity in the fact that close family members are entitled to foster homes, because child protection must make the same demands on those of other families that foster homes should be safe and well-suited to the needs of the child. With the guidelines as a starting point, child protection shall, where possible, identify a foster home which is in close proximity to the network or within the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1456	The Minister of Culture has promised 1 pst. of the state budget to go to culture by 2014, the Prime Minister has promised full hospital coverage by 2015, and as I referred to, Kristin Halvorsen promised in 2005 full child care coverage within two years. What have these ministers misunderstood, since they are so busy setting deadlines for achieving their objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1461	It is not the ministers who have misunderstood, but it is the representative of Håbreek who has misunderstood, who believes that it is as easy to make deadlines for children's protection as it is for kindergarten construction or in the case of cultural money. Each child shall not only have an offer; they shall have the right offer on their own. I could achieve full foster home coverage today. The government could only relax the requirements for individual adaptation, but with the result that several moved. We have more foster homes than foster children, but we need to have the right home for each one. That's why we need a lot more. There is no political decision that can ensure that we have enough foster homes for 2013, because we need a hard time out among people who are making up for the right foster homes. The representative of Håbreek here is a gross simplification of what is needed to achieve the goals, and I would like him to put it away and instead contribute constructively to finding solutions to how we can recruit more people. There are no magic spells, there is no political decision that solves this, just hard work to recruit more good foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1473	I hear what the Council of State says, and it actually reminds me a little bit about what former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal said, when he stood here in 2006 and 2007 and was going to explain why it turned out to be so very difficult to achieve the goal of full child care coverage during the deadline set. The result came, but it came too late from the promise, but it came after a huge effort by the government, with billions, with creativity in adjusting demands, in looking at new instruments, etc., because it was defined by the government as an overall political project. We're not measuring the number of homes relative to the number of children; we're actually measuring the number of homes given that the queue is going to go away. That's the criterion. So I ask again, is it perhaps that the areas that I mentioned in my previous line, by the government, are identified as being a good part more important than getting full foster home coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1480	I have given the Christian People's Party and the representative Hope a lot of praise in many debates on child protection, but I must say that I am quite upset about the post that the representative Hope held in place, which is full of errors and gross simplifications, and which also creates a picture of the government's efforts in the area that is completely wrong. All the big money in the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion now goes to Child Protection. We carry out the largest child protection effort in Norway in 20 years. And I would go further in the doors if I represented the Christian People's Party, because in the 20 years when the greatest bet was not, the Christian People's Party had responsibility for quite many years. We are doing significantly more for Norwegian child protection now, both in terms of resources, and in terms of getting an organisation for the future, than the Christian People's Party has done when they've been in position. Let me also add that resources in foster home work are important, but it's not that we can just give a sum, and then we'll solve the problem. We need people, so this is more difficult than the goals that the representative Håbrek compares to. But we're not going to give up. We're not going to have a goal of full foster home coverage in 2013, but a goal of having it today. And then we're going to work for it every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1492	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1497	One child in a foster home queue is too much, it's said. It's totally unacceptable that we can't get a home for all children. I must therefore admit that I am very disappointed today that the government parties will not participate on a binding plan with a deadline to secure a home for all children. It should be a matter of course that we have a national plan with a deadline for all to have foster homes, as we have it for nursing homes and kindergartens. I know that has been said before, but just think about it: Norway is the country that has provided kindergarten for everyone, before we have got all the children a home. It's a paradox. We have to ask ourselves what's really most important. Having said that, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority, i.e. the government parties and the Christian People's Party, agree that further provision should be made for ideal actors in child protection. I would like to take the opportunity to draw the lines of the representative proposal from the undersigned and co-representatives of the Christian People's Party on measures for better framework conditions for non-profit enterprises, which were dealt with in Stortinget just before Christmas. There was also an overall committee which agreed that the Stortinget wanted contributions from the ideal actors. Also there the representatives of the government parties expressed their agreement with the Christian People's Party that the non-profit sector has an independent self-esteem and that it is a political task to ensure that the sector is maintained. The majority also agreed that all possibilities for using different procurement procedures need to be exploited in order to improve public procurement. I am pleased that the majority of the family committee also agrees that procurement methods other than tenders should be used, as far as possible within the existing legislation. I am pleased that the family committee quotes from the position of the nutrition committee: ‘A second majority, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People’s Party, assume that the scope of action in the law is used to achieve public procurement in line with political leadership. [[...]] This majority believes that the possibilities of applying different procurement procedures should be exploited in order to improve procurement.’ When, during 2011, Bufdir is about to launch a competition for the purchase of foster home services by the State, it is very important that this political signal to avoid tenders and rather to use direct negotiations where possible under EEA legislation is followed up. Christian People's Party requires full foster home coverage by 2013. It's time for a power cap. One child in line for a good home is one child too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1523	The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party to present an action plan for full foster home coverage by 2013 is voting for the majority of the population and government parties today. It is not an easy task to find good and suitable homes for each child. However, when the public decides to take the children out of their home, it is unacceptable that we do not provide a full care offer immediately. It's that simple and so difficult. The number of children waiting for foster homes is too high – 164, according to the Council of State. It is unsustainable and unacceptable for a child to stand in line and wait in a foster home. It is time we all gathered together on the goal of full foster home coverage, that a clear deadline is set, and that all good forces are put into operation. With regard to the ideal providers of child protection, it is outrageous to hear stories that they encounter reluctance and skepticism when they want to contribute to the recruitment and operation of foster homes. This is probably an example of the government sitting still and seeing that ideal actors are not used, that they are opposed to the attitude: we prefer not to use you, we want to operate in our own direction – we need you, or maybe we prefer to use the big ones. Then I also talk a little bit beyond the foster home recruitment. I mention one key, Styvi Gard in Hordaland, who fell for such a grip. This is at least the story up to today from the government of Stoltenberg. Much attention has been paid to the setting of cost differences between state, non-profit and other family homes. There's two things that can be said here. Experience from other sectors shows that it is difficult to have comparable cost figures for different actors, because the basis for calculation is often different. And it is very unlikely that actors living from bidding round to bidding round are actually 50 pst. more expensive than the protected activities of the State. This shows one of three things: Either the state gives the children a very bad offer, or Buffetat is an unprofessional and little demanding order for services, or costs are calculated differently in the run-up and competitive business. I choose to think that's the last thing that's happened. I have experience from the kindergarten sector in public and private kindergartens. It is nice that the government also says in this context that they want to involve non-profit actors more in the work to provide more foster homes, cf. posted to the Evening Post. But it is also time to show this in practice. I feel that until now it has been a lot of empty words. I do not understand that the government parties cannot vote for all the good proposals from the Christian People's Party in this matter. When we discuss today, I feel that we really agree, but in some way you still manage to vote down the proposals. I don't understand!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1541	In this debate, I believe it is important to have a realistic and open approach to the matter. I believe that as a positioning party, we have been open to challenges in child protection that need to be solved over time. It may not be quite right when you're in position, but I feel that the opposition is at least playing its part in not recognising any of the good work that the government has done. The challenge in child protection is two-fold. One is about structure, it's about internal control, it's about cooperation and a lot about the overall. The other thing is about money. The last thing we're doing is when we give more money to positions in municipal child protection. The first will take more time. It is then easy to be in opposition and to make proposals that sometimes simplify demanding issues. Many proposals have been made, and these are some good proposals. So to say all the intentions of many of the proposals that have been promoted, both now and before, the government is already involved in its assessment and review of child protection. But it won't be responsible if we don't manage to see child protection in a context and wait for the review that's actually started. Today's child protection system we agree that it is not working well. I think if we spend time and get the knowledge on the table, we'll get a good child protection that lasts over time, so you don't need these complete reviews of child protection so many times. So to full foster home coverage: As the council was also involved, there is a difference between full child-care coverage and full foster home coverage. Trying to say that this is the same thing as saying that it is not an offer adapted to the individual child that is the most important. When it comes to the recruitment of foster homes, we've already been involved in several things. I would like to repeat this: we open up the ideals, we have recruitment campaigns – both nationwide and regional – and we put a lot of emphasis on knowledge to know more about the situation of foster parents. Yes, we have challenges in municipal child protection, but we also need to take into account that the Health Authority is targeting those municipalities where they expect to find anomalies, where they think there is something to point out. That's why there's almost a tendency to black paint in the description of Kommune-Norway, because it's actually very good. Through a commitment to municipal child protection and a focus on interaction and internal control, I think we will see fewer municipalities on the lists that have many differences. It is clear that it is helping with money for municipal child protection, but this government is already giving more money to municipal child protection. I have great faith that there will also be money for municipal child protection in the budget over the next few years. I want to say that we're doing a lot of work. I hope that the opposition sees that we are on the right track, and that many of the proposals are actually well under way. Although the device and details of the proposals are not agreed, the intention is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1562	Now I have heard three articles from the Christian People's Party, where it is said about the same thing, namely that the government does nothing to strengthen the role of the ideals in child protection. I explained what we are doing now. It's okay with prewritten articles, but I might think it would be natural to ask for a response to that, rather than a claim that we're not doing anything. The representative, Håbreek, said that he had been met with “empty words” in a year after he raised the question of the role of ideal in the recruitment of foster homes. It's, with respect to reporting, completely wrong. We took this up with Bufeta's different regions last year, after the representative had taken up the question in the Stortinge. So that time we had a system where the purchase of private services within foster homes took place by single purchase, not by a single system. The Christian People's Party at the time asked for it was to inform us that the ideals were not to be given priority when such single purchases were made. I've made sure that signal came out. Now we go much further than the Christian People's Party has ever proposed in Stortinget, namely to create a system for the overall purchase of foster home services. The result of this will be – if that is what the Christian People's Party believes, and the government and I believe, namely that the ideals have a resource that needs to be mobilised and that has not been used – that we will have a significant increase in the foster homes we need and in agreements for ideal actors. Then I think it's a little special that the only thing we're being met with in this debate is angry posts about 'empty words' from the Christian People's Party. I think that the political debate on these issues might have been served with a minimum of roughness as we move towards goals that are common to us, and when we even go much further than the Christian People's Party has proposed in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1575	I have given praise to the government on several occasions, including: for the earmarking of funds in the State budget of the year, for increases to county level and for other measures in the area of child protection, and I am still standing by that. In the last post of the Council of State, I would like to remind you that the representative Andersen Eide went through the positive comments that the Red-Green and Christian People's Party are all about in the setting, just about the ideals. It was meant to be praise, and I hope it is also perceived as that. When we actually criticize how far you've come, I recognize my right to do so. We had a round in the Questionnaire a year ago, and then the council replied that he would immediately give a message to Bufdir about those signals. I thought everything was fine, and then it went on for almost half a year. Then the Buffetat employees came to me and told me, "We are so pleased with what the Council of State answered your question in the Questionnaire, but we have not yet heard a pipe from our leaders that there is any new policy, and we see that it is necessary. Then I called the Dagsrevyen and asked them to look at the matter. But when the Dagsrevyen had called Bufdir and the department, the news came that there was to be a tendering procedure. Now it's been a year, and now it's going out. I think it'll take a long time. The new signals could have speeded up, and the formalities would have to be carried out. But the new signals in the system that make organisations experience a new everyday life have taken a long time – I would like to point that out. Then it's used as an argument that there's so much trouble with full foster home coverage compared to other goals. Yes, in the nursery agreement in 2002, it was said: We need 40,000 kindergartens until 2005. 40,000 kindergartens – it's hard, it's hard! There were actually many vacant kindergartens then, just as there are vacant foster homes today. But they were perhaps in the wrong place, in the wrong place in the city – different things. There are many challenges to achieving an objective, but with major policy projects it always follows a commitment, and then it follows a deadline. As I say, we don't measure the relationship between vacant homes and children who need foster homes. We're just measuring the line that's going to go away, and we should be able to decide that line is going to go away. And we can set a deadline. Then we put pressure on ourselves, we put pressure on the government, and the government puts pressure on its agencies. And it creates change! It's always been like that. Once we've lifted important things together here in the hall, we've operated that way. It also shows the government's policy projects in other areas. I'm waiting for Jens Stoltenberg to appeal to the Norwegian people in his new year's year, saying that one of the most important things we're going to get is full foster home coverage, and that the entire government is behind a campaign to get us into goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1590	I'm going to be the first to confirm that it's quite demanding to work with child protection, including as a government council. We work for all, the weakest – the smallest – and it requires enormous amounts of both bureaucracy and, not least, political leadership. At least in my four years as Minister for Children and Family Affairs, there was no matter or area for which I worked harder than child protection. This was also the reason why, in the conversion of child protection, a model was put into place at the time where state councils can actually intervene directly – from top to bottom – precisely because political governance was important. I just want to mention this, because all opportunities should be provided for very, very good political governance. It's not like in the health sector, where what I'm experiencing today, is that we have a health minister who always refers to health companies, who have been given so much decision-making power. It's not like that in child protection. State councils are calling for roughness. I think it's great what the council says, and the commitment that's shown. And I think everything done by the government is great, but I have to say that the problems are exactly the same today as they were nearly six years ago. Some of the backgrounds for the child protection reform at the time were just the same problems we are facing today. I also think it is positive that the child protection reform or child protection should be evaluated today. With the major reforms we had in 2004 — and which almost did not start before 2005 — it is important to follow this closely and politically and to adjust it along the way. My question is how much Stoltenberg government has committed itself from the first day they took over, until today. The problem is that we all have to measure after what we do, and after the results of what we do, because that's where we stand today, that we see that the problems, if possible, are perhaps even greater than they have ever been. So I'm going to be the first to admit that there are several children coming under child protection today, there are several children who have it difficult today. Why can't we make a deal? Why can't we have better cooperation? Why is it that you are only met by voting for good proposals when they are really there all the time? Maybe it's because the Christian People's Party has had this department, that we have such a strong commitment and so much want to contribute. Now let's do that. Instead, we're about to be clubbed down on good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1605	Just like Document No. The 8-proposals tend to be put to the vote, I believe that remembering was also the case when the representative Davøy was in the government and I was in opposition. But otherwise we've been very open to recordings, and the process around ideals is an example of that. There is no doubt that it was important for the Christian People's Party to take it up in the Storting. It also made us focus on a system that didn't work as it was supposed to, and that we're now doing something with. I'm not going to erase this, but I'm going to ask the Christian People's Party to think about the comparison that the representative Hope again drew between kindergartens and foster homes. So we depend on there's an understanding outside of this hall for what it's going to do to achieve the goals that we set ourselves. We can't afford foster homes, we can't adopt foster homes, we have to ask people to be foster homes. Fortunately, this is the case, because we have to make very strict demands on those foster homes. Therefore, it is not possible to compare with reforms where there is only one question of how many millions we grant. It's not primarily a question of that. Of course, it helps with resources, but we have to reach people. Then it's a huge simplification to say that this is something we can just set a deadline for in this room, and then we get it. I believe that, on the contrary, we should have the same goal every day, namely that the queues should be removed as quickly as possible, put full pressure on it, as we do now. Then it's not natural to set a date. It would be quite possible to achieve the goal of full foster home coverage immediately if we, for example, said we would connect several foster parents and children, without the strict assessments we have today regarding which home is best suited to the individual child. The consequence of that would be more shifts, as we in other contexts say in this room that we're going to try to avoid, or we could rearrange the policy that says we're going to use foster homes to a greater extent, and less to use institutions. Then we could also solve this problem very quickly, but it would go across unique child protection advice. That's why I won't do it. I also want to warn you that setting such a date will lead to taking shortcuts around the system, because it becomes so important to have the queues gone right on that date. What is crucial for us is first of all to recruit enough foster homes over time, and, second, to do something about the trends in society that make more and more children need foster homes. That's the last thing that's important to say. We have no idea today how many children need foster homes in 2013. Hopefully the growth won't continue, but there's nothing Christian People's Party or government is over. We can only put a lot of energy, a lot of forces and a lot of political commitment into recruiting multiple foster parents – and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1618	Everyone wants children to have foster homes when they need them. So there's no one who doesn't share the desire for full foster home coverage, but as many people have said before me, there are some differences in that. If you look at what happened after we strengthened child protection, you can see that there are many more people who need the help of child protection. So it's very hard to know just how many there are. I'm very happy that this has happened, because I think this is right. Of course, child protection is not just about foster homes, it's about many people who turn to child protection to get help in everyday life. That's very good. But we know that as we work more on this, there will be more. The other thing that I'm very concerned about is that some of the toughest requests I get in this area are from the children who have been moved from foster home to foster home because it didn't fit, it didn't clapp, it wasn't done a good enough job for the foster home to do the task they had been given, whether it was about the support they received, or that people fit together. It was not done a quality good job. That is why I believe that the recognition of some of my co-representatives is now a little low when it comes to doing a quality good job. It doesn't matter that we think it's okay that kids are waiting, but it has to do with having a recruit that makes us avoid these kids moving and moving. When Laila Davøy was Minister for Children the last time, I was given, among other things. enquiry from someone who had become a foster parent about the night because child protection knew them and thought it was decent people, and that was it. But they only got a phone: we have a child here, can you take it? They just had to do it. That time it went well. But that's not the way to have it. Then you can get full coverage, but you have to have different systems than that. So it's this by voting down suggestions. I have a long experience in Stortinget, to say it like that, and I have probably also promoted a lot of proposals that I know, among other things. The Christian People's Party has been cordially in agreement, but as they have voted against. The point now is that there are many things going on, so it has something to do with turning open the doors. With a work going on, I understand that you need to make a difference. And I believe in the commitment to what it is, I have no reason to ask any questions about it. But that's not sure that way is the most productive. So it's true that there have been major reforms in child protection, and many of us were probably more critical to part of the grips that were made. They are now being evaluated. There is no doubt that there has been a great deal of effort on child protection over time. We still have major challenges ahead of us, so the evaluation now being carried out may well show that there are some new approaches that need to be taken in this area in order for it to work better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1631	Eye Wind Hope has had the word twice and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1634	A brief remark: I refer you to the representative, Mr. Davøy's last post, which I think was a good summary. Yes, it is difficult and demanding to recruit foster homes. Yes, there is a difference between building kindergartens and recruiting foster homes. But what's common to the two areas, just like to all the other areas in which we want to achieve something in politics, is that commitment creates commitment, commitment creates pressure on ourselves and downwards in the system among all the thousands of child protection workers who are to give priority every single day to their tasks. If it is believed that the professional assessments in the field of child protection make it impossible to have political visions and ambitions, objectives and action plans, as is the case in other sectors, it is a solid failure statement for the protection of children. So I don't think so. It is possible to combine professional assessments and political ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1641	Laila Bavøy has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1644	First, to the representative Andersen: I am absolutely sure that there is a need to make a new approach to child protection, and I look forward to that. Then we all agree that the most important thing is that foster homes are of good quality, and that children do not move from home to home. Fortunately, we also have some foster homes that actually receive more children – many children afterwards – and they do a wonderful job. So to that with the goal, to set goals and to have a certain number. It may be more difficult in child protection than it is in kindergarten. You know, after all, how many children are born, and when they turn one year old, which is the age limit for starting in kindergarten. I would rather compare it to a nursing home. We don't know how many sick elderly people we get, but the government has set clear targets for how many sick places to build. And then you're going to say that if we don't have a measure that hits, and we need more space, then we're going to adjust. You could do that in child protection too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1651	I have to breathe quite deeply before I start my post, because I was greatly provoked to hear Andersen's representative. Here we have the opportunity to debate what we can do to improve child protection. The opposition is restless! The Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Left and Right promote monthly proposals and measures to improve child protection. Then Andersen's representative goes up and appears like a sort of seventh father in the house, who's going to tell and teach the opposition how child protection is, and how everyday life is there. So she says between the lines that it's not easy to get into all the parts of child protection and tries to claim that the opposition doesn't have any idea what we're talking about. President, I think it's disrespectful. It is disrespectful of the opposition, which is impatient for the protection of children and children. To the Council of State Lighthouse I would say: that's right, I think the Council of State is on the right track. He has ambitions for child protection, and I'm glad. But when the opposition is restless, it's because the Light Hill is the fourth child and family minister in five and a half years. The light hill is the fourth child and family minister who sits in the department and says that now we're going to do so much better for child protection, now we're going to turn every stone, we're going to go through everything – everything is going to be so much better. That's what the red-greens have been saying for almost six years, and nothing happens. Children’s protection is out there and does not have time to sit and wait for investigations and panels and evaluations. If we look at how many issues the government has put before the Storting in terms of child protection, it's sad. That's why I think you can spare yourself the slightly obnoxious approach to the opposition and the suggestions we make, and the instructive tone the red-greens have to the opposition, who work very hard, and who work every single day to take initiatives to promote measures to improve the situation of children's protection. There is a situation in which 300 of the foster home children do not have regular conversations with their supervisor, which they are entitled to. That's 11.1 pst. of the children who do not even have the supervisor and there is a breach of the law. It's 110 of the country's municipalities that don't even have emergency preparedness 24 hours a day. The situation is serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1661	I believe it is important that this type of major issue is discussed in Stortinget. I'm glad we have a debate on this. This matter, as the representative, Håbrek, was involved, is also a matter of commitment. I want to repeat what has been said several times, that we are doing a lot of work. When this work, and this evaluation, is in place, when we have facts on the table, I believe it would be natural for it to come as a matter for Stortinget. I also think it would be very nice if we could have had a wide deal in the Storting in this case, precisely because I think we agree on so many of the goals. In the meantime, of course, debate is good. If you're going to go into what's "respectless," I'm not going to say that we've had a learning tone. But it has to be allowed to say that this is two-part. One is to grant money, which can be made over each state budget. The second is a work that takes some time, which actually requires that you have some facts and some evaluations in place. But there's something to admit that there's actually a work going on, and I think it's a little special that you don't see at all. Obviously, we have a lot left, but we have a lot of good explanations for why it has to be like that. So I hope that when there's a matter for the Storting about this, you can start to discuss whether to set more concrete goals regarding what kind of plans you're going to have to have in the future. But this work has to be seen in a little different stages, precisely because there are demanding issues. You have to respect that, too. When you're going to work on this, you have to have some things in place. So I think it's very good that the opposition is involved in these questions, and I think it's important that we have a debate along the way. I am sure that the Council of State now takes with it many of the recordings of the work that is going on, and then we can go back and look at both proposals and debate. When Stortinget gets a case about this, I'm sure there's a lot of things you can agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1674	Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1677	I understand that I must have made a very painful point with the representative of Hofstad Helleland, when I point out that making proposals in Stortinget and being dissuaded has been a relationship between the opposition and the position for all years. So it was when the representative of Hofstad Hellenic party was put in government. At that time, proposals that were actually agreed on were also put to a vote. The government's reason was usually: we're working on it. And that's what we're saying. Then the representative of Hofstad Helleland says again that nothing is happening. Yes, we've strengthened child protection. We are working on important work to produce a quality basis that we want to invite Stortingen to join in and discuss a cooperation on. And then I actually think it's a little disrespectful to say that no, it doesn't matter, we know best now, so we're going to decide right now, just like you did in the budget, where you just put a line over 500 million. kr to Bufdir and said that it was a good arrangement – when we now talk about who is going to provide foster homes, the one that also needs to be treated in a respectful way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1684	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1700	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1709	Today, we are expanding the Husbank's loan framework to a historically high level. 5 B.C.E. kr is a significant addition. The total frame is now going to be 20 billion. kr. There's a lot of money and there's going to be a lot of housing. Both the addition and the overall framework are an expression of the important role of the House Bank. With its various instruments, the Husbank has proved to be an exceptionally good tool for achieving the housing policy objectives. Through robust schemes, flexibility and good local knowledge, Husbanken contributes to the implementation of an active housing policy by municipalities. Housing is as important and fundamental a well-being as health, education and work. For the Workers' Party, the working line is important. That people can support themselves and their families is important to self-respect and dignity, but also important to society. Nevertheless, many people experience that they have to stay out of work during periods of their lives. It can be dramatic. However, there is something quite different to standing without a dwelling. Knowing where to sleep the next night is about basic security. Knowing where to live next year and the year after that is about being able to plan a life. The difference between having and not having a safe place to live is great. A good housing can be essential if each individual’s ability to cope with the other challenges of life is to be addressed. The household bank contributes to the safe housing of many people every year and is thus an important tool in welfare policy. By March 1st, a total of 12.2 billion. kr charged the Husbank’s original loan frame of 15 billion. kr. When the Stortinget expanded the Husbank loan framework in 2009, the credit market was still characterised by a financial crisis. It created an extraordinary demand for loans in the House Bank. This year, there is no such thing as an increase in demand. In other words, the year’s increase in borrowing is due to an increase in activity, i.e. that more is being built and that more are being given the opportunity to settle in owner-occupied dwellings. That's a good development. In this context, I particularly want to highlight the increase in the use of start-up loans. In 2007, starting loans were granted to 5,955 dwellings. In 2010, the figure was 9,529. That's an increase of 60 pst. in three years. After two months of 2011, initial loans amounted to 4.8 billion. kr charged Husbanken’s loan framework, almost as much as in the whole of 2010, when the total amount of the commitment was 5.5 billion. kr. This shows that the Husbank's arrangements are making, and not least that the municipalities are doing a good job. It is a joint municipal and management committee that supports the government's proposals. With one exception, the comments are also positive. The Christian People's Party already had a revelation last year about how it would go this year. They feel the need to point this out. I understand that. Although government parties cannot claim the same certainty about the future, we were also aware of the possibility of increased demand for loans in the House Bank. In our remarks to the State budget, the majority of governments asked the government to follow the situation closely and come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the need for increased loan frameworks. We are very pleased that the government has done just that, that it has followed developments closely and made proposals to extend the loan framework, so that the House Bank is adequately secured with loan funds. Good housing social work is about many things. In the view of the Workers' Party, perhaps the most important thing is to ensure that a sufficient number of new dwellings are built. It contributes to the necessary renewal and upgrading of the housing stock, not least in terms of environmental requirements and design. But it also contributes to something else that is very important, that housing prices are kept stable. Behind us we have some years of low housing construction and ever-increasing housing prices. We're now seeing signs that this is turning around. That's good. The working party is concerned that the public facilitates an increase in housing. In particular, obstacles need to be removed from the road, and public intervention not only on the brake, objecting, requiring forms to be filled in, etc., but also taking active action, taking initiatives to cooperate with builders and ensuring that adequate land is regulated for dwellings. In addition to its importance for the disadvantaged in the housing market, the current expansion of the Husbank loan framework is an important contribution towards increasing activity in the housing market. In other words, it's a lot to rejoice at today's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1726	I don't intend to spend so much of the time of Storting in a unanimous attitude of the committee. I just want to remind you that some of the most important housing policy points are not to be read in the case, but are outside it. It is an overall committee that recommends the adoption of an extended loan framework by the Stortinget in the Husbank. However, you can also ask yourself whether the House Bank's increased lending framework is more suitable for treating symptoms than for solving problems. What should now concern those who are interested in public housing policy, together with those who operate in the industry and are builders, is the great pressure that is established because housing prices rise without having a background in land scarcity or an increase in labour inputs and materials. Some of the rises in housing prices are due simply to well-intentioned decisions in this room and the formulation of policies in everyday life from the department. What I'm thinking about is that in many other contexts we adopt ideal standard requirements that are imposed on the construction industry, which do not immediately lead to a corresponding increase in the value in use of those who are in the market and demand housing. It's a fundamental problem that I think we should reflect more on, and in other contexts than that, this particular matter, with its limited horizon, invites. It is precisely the sum of objections, barriers and ideal standard requirements that eventually create a price tag that makes it difficult for many, not least our new countrymen and our future generations, to establish themselves in the housing market. Therefore, the best housing social policy is to attack the cost picture that affects everyone on the housing market, whether the dwelling they demand is funded by the Husbank, or it is funded by the ordinary credit market. Furthermore, I refer to the comments of the Committee. There is no separate proposal from the Right, as we are in the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1737	The dwelling is «basic» and the dwelling is expensive. That is why I and SV are very pleased with the allocation that is coming today. It is quite right to do this, as the case-law rapporteur, Haugli, said, and I fully agree with the post he had. I'm particularly concerned with what's about being able to start lending, because it's so very important in the housing market we have, that young people come in. I am also particularly concerned that the municipalities must have good housing-social plans and follow them up, so that it is possible for the disadvantaged to establish themselves in an own home and get the security it is, because it is absolutely impossible to get a life in order if you do not have a place to live, and that place must be safe. The most important thing here is that the state is now intensifying its efforts in the housing market as strongly as it does. It's a very large increase in an already large sum. Then the representative Tetzschner was up here and invited a little bit to a major debate on housing policy. I expect it to be ours when we get a big housing message. But I have to say that I don't agree with the angle of incidence that Tetzschner has on this topic. Dwellings shall last a long time. Then they should have a quality that keeps them going. There can be no particular advantage for people if they're built in such a way that the firing costs are high, that all the money goes up in firing costs. We need to have an energy-efficient house. I've been in the fight for years now to have accessibility for people with disabilities, that people with disabilities should be able to choose where they want to live, just like the others. That's why there are some demands for housing, and homes are, as I said, something that lasts a long time, for very many years, and are to be traded and perhaps exchanged between people. And not only should you be able to choose where you want to live if you want to move, but the jam we want to have people visit too. Some of us have friends sitting in a wheelchair, and some of us have old parents who need to visit, and it's important that the homes are adapted and have better living standards than we've had. I think we have made a lot of mistakes in Norway. We have made too few demands on the homes, and therefore we have so many dwellings that do not meet the requirements. That means that the emphasis we have to put on the social housing policy in the future must be even stronger, because it's right that it can raise the cost of doing this in the short term. Social housing policy must therefore be strengthened in the future. This is absolutely necessary because Norway has a composition in the housing stock that is very different from most other countries. Most other countries have slightly larger sheltered sectors, so that people can live with them if they have poor advice, and not least opt for a cheaper home if they get into trouble in life. It is a bit out of place in Norway to do so, also because many municipalities – including the capital of the country – have for several years neglected their housing policies. Many municipalities have done that and ended up offering too bad to people who are disadvantaged, and that makes you get into a hard circle. That's why what the government is now doing, so happy and correct, and SV supports it all we can. We look forward to discussing housing policy when the government presents its housing message, because having a place to live is one of the most important living conditions we have, and not least it is incredibly important in the policy area that I contribute to daily, social policy. There is housing entirely ‘basic’ to make things better with people who have been in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1750	Due to the high demand for loans in the Husbank, the majority of the municipal and management committee asked the government to return to the Stortinget with an assessment of the need for an increase in the loan framework for the Husbank in the context of the revised national budget for 2011. The loan framework for 2011 is 15 billion. kr, the same level as the previous year. The review shows that the loan framework for the House Bank is well over 12 billion. kr as of 1 March 2011, which shows that demand is increasing. So the center party is very satisfied that the government is now proposing to increase the loan framework by 5 billion. kr, from 15 to 20 br. kr. The loan framework consists of several parts: basic loans for improvement, basic loans for inclusion, basic loans for purchase, loans for the construction of kindergartens and not least start-up loans. Starting loans are prioritised within the loan framework, and demand is expected to increase steadily due to the strategic local government initiative of the Husbank, but of course also due to the situation on the housing market. Youth and solitude are groups that struggle to enter the housing market. The centre party believes that a housing policy must be implemented which allows those with lower incomes and low equity to obtain owner-occupied housing. The central party will actively use the Husbank as an instrument in a social housing construction and has therefore programmed to facilitate the creation of more start-up loans in the Husbank. First-time non-equity starters have difficulty getting fully funded owner-occupied dwellings. Starting loans as top finance are often the only way to get into the housing market at all. Own dwelling is an important part of the basis of a good life. The centre party believes that everyone should have the right to own or rent a dwelling at a price they can afford to pay, and is therefore thoroughly satisfied with the government's proposal, which will increase the range from 15 to 20 billion. kr, i.e. an increase of 33 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1763	The government's goal is for everyone to stay safe and sound. Housing policy is central to our welfare policy and to the fight against poverty. Everyone needs a good home to organize their lives on the basis of. The House Bank has been at the heart of Norwegian housing policy and under this government has had a strongly increased framework. Among other things, more people who need housing, now few, can increase the construction of municipal rented housing, and improvements have been made in the care housing and health care systems. I am pleased that the Municipal and Administrative Committee has agreed to increase the loan frame to the House Bank by 5 billion. kr. With this, the red-green government has increased the mortgage by 6.5 billion. kr. The house bank lends loans to kindergartens, start-up loans to young people and disadvantaged people on the housing market and basic loans for the construction of new or refurbishment of existing dwellings. Base-borrowing buildings must have environmental qualities and/or be universally designed, be for social purposes or secure housing in the districts. The large demand for loans shows the important role of the House Bank in the financing of high-quality housing in Norway and in the employment of the construction industry. The household bank is an important and necessary complement to the private banks. The house bank shall complement the credit market and provide loans for purposes which are socially and politically desirable, including: the start-up loan is a good tool for young people and disadvantaged people in the housing market and is therefore a priority within the loan frame to the House Bank. We are glad that the House Bank can make the funds close to the demand from this group. The government has determined that we attach great importance to the House Bank as housing policy tools. In this way, the government will help to ensure that more nights, spacious dwellings with good energy solutions and good access are built. Because of an increase in demand for loans from the House Bank, there is a need for a loan framework of 20 billion. kr in 2011. Until 2009, Husbanken had a window of between 13 and 13.5 billion. kr for several years. The government strengthened the framework in 2009 during the financial crisis by 4 billion. kr collected set, to a frame of 16 billion. kr – it was 12 br. kr in the budget for that year. Entirely used frame. In the past few years, there were, in part, large licenses that were not used, up to 2 billion. kr. In the future, after 2009, we see that the demand has stayed up. Many of the demand for loans in the Husbank comes from stricter quality requirements on the basis that the loan frame was used up late in 2010. It led to an extraordinary loan activity in the House Bank in ours, and about 5.5 billion. kr is due to pending cases from 2010, which have departed from the 2011 Loan Framework. This is an exceptional situation, which will not last for more years. I think the House Bank is doing an important job both in the districts and in the big cities. Local knowledge is the strength of the Husbank and it is particularly important that the mortgage at Husbank is well notified by the state. Some of the loans in the House Bank are granted in connection with grants. This makes both offers and loans more useful. The strength will make the House Bank better equipped to meet the problems of busting for young people, for those with difficulty and for others. For now this year is about 5 billion. DKK of the loan frame used for the start-up loan, about 7 billion. DKK to mortgage and approximately SEK half a billion for children's home loans. With the 5 billion. Extra kr, which is adopted in Stortinget today, stands at 7.5 billion. kr in 2011. It should be sufficient for the House Bank to make a good and solid effort for the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1789	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1792	Let me first praise the members of the Municipal and Administrative Committee for being so united in such an important matter. The issue we are debating today is very important for young people. In recent years it has become more difficult and difficult for young people to enter the housing market. Young and low pay have the highest housing costs in relation to income. The housing market reaches new heights year by year, thus hitting the low-paid groups, preferably young, newly educated people who are going to buy their first dwelling. In the first decades after the war, housing policy was high on the political agenda. Through the Husbank, it was possible to ensure a socially equitable access to reasonable housing credit. It was recognised that housing policy is a distribution policy. However, the House Bank has gone from being the central source of funding for housing to becoming a welfare centre targeting particularly disadvantaged groups. I am therefore very pleased that the Stortinget is today going to adopt increased loan frameworks for the House Bank, because it is a step in the right direction. Starting loans are currently a scheme such as: newly established and young people can apply to finance their first dwelling. But the criteria for getting a start-up loan can seem very unfair today. One of the criteria is that the dwelling you are applying for a loan must be reasonable in relation to the price level in the municipality where you live. This means that there is the housing market in the municipality in which you live, which controls what becomes a cheap loan for each individual – not the House Bank. And as a general rule, start-up loans are given in addition to the bank loan, so-called top finance. This does not just mean that someone has to raise higher and more expensive loans, but that many simply do not get the top funding from the House Bank because they cannot afford what becomes a cheap dwelling in the housing market. For example, a newly-trained nurse in Bergen will: have greater difficulty in using start-up loans than a newly-trained nurse in Bodø. It is wrong that the housing market should lead to the possibility for young people to get their first home when we have a home bank that is just going to do the opposite. The Council of State referred to this as a starting-point loan as an instrument. It might be interesting to hear what Councillor Navarsete thinks about possible changes in the criteria for getting a start-up loan. It must be an important task for a red-green government, and not least a local and regional minister who has such a burning commitment to the districts, that everyone, and especially young people, is given equal opportunities to enter the housing market, wherever they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1805	It is very gratifying that the government is increasing the loan framework for the House Bank. This means that there is an increasing construction activity and is a good example of a move in the right direction in Norway. New homes are being built, it's activity, and the economy is working. So, our country is in a unique situation if we raise our eyes and look at the rest of Europe. The household bank is important, but has previously played an even stronger role for the whole population. In the post-war period, the House Bank has held a unique position in the development of Velferds-Norway. In Finnmark, the House Bank was on the repatriation after the Germans burned the entire state during World War II. In fact, it was quite centralistic, with only two house models – a small, or a slightly larger house. But who cared that all the houses were alike, the most important thing was to get hold of the head. In addition, this has led to a uniform reconstruction that is unique and an example of the spirit of time. It's pretty good at that. Repatriation after the war was a huge social housing measure – and necessary there and then. Today, we do not need this type of housing social action, but we definitely need other, more targeted instruments to improve the housing situation of many people in Norway. The working party believes that everyone should dispose of the owner-occupier – not necessarily own it, but have access to a good and suitable dwelling. For us, it is important that housing policy should be an instrument for combating poverty and inclusion. We're not in the goal and will hardly get there during this period, but it's our clear vision that we should have increased focus on social housing. The household bank is a tool to achieve this goal. We know that many municipalities have too few rental homes both for people on the rental market and for students. Increases in the number of municipal rental dwellings will dampen the price pressure and have a social smoothing effect. The aim of the Workers' Party is not to make the House Bank function as it did in the post-war period, with the needs of the time, but to be changing, so that the House Bank can help to strengthen the housing market in Norway, and at a price that can be used for people with a normal income. The current strengthening of the lending framework to the House Bank is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1820	It is excellent if increased financing needs are triggered by more dwellings being built. It's not quite as good if it's because it's the same number of homes that's just gotten more expensive. That is why, in my first post, I drew attention to the fact that there are some undesirable effects of the sum of standard requirements that may be set here in the hall, but I should not underestimate that in many municipalities there is also no strong pressure to promote a higher construction activity and a higher housing coverage. When I listened to the representative Karin Andersen – who can well be said to express what the government means, because she represents a government party – there were little promises for the future there, given that you could see something less prejudiced about this with the standard requirements. So there's obviously no particular help waiting. Then we are the other people who have to worry that the production costs themselves are rising, without those who are asking for the homes feeling that they have got a better quality of living. Essentially, there are also questions about the public nature of the quality of the individual application for housing. It may be that someone wants a three-room apartment with a normally equipped wet room, while others have ambitions to deal with one room and a very large and oversized wet room. I believe that the Storting must be open to assess the effects of ideal standard requirements that have previously been imposed on the construction industry. No one disagrees when the Council of State says that the government wants everyone to live «well and well» – I think any government we have had in modern times has formulated something in the direction of it. But in practice it can be a little different, because we know that the red-green government has still had people's housing as a very nice treasure. Uncertainty is created, especially in those who, in the opinion of the red-greens, live in a little too large apartments in a little too fine strips – even though they may have lived there for the rest of their lives. So there's also the idea of pushing people's housing consumption away from personal choices and more towards a collective thinking. The more problematic it becomes to see the content of these great declarations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1832	Since I got a direct question, I find it right to take the word, link it to starting loans. The current option is that the price of a dwelling must be between the reasonable ones in the current municipality. I think it makes sense that the initial loan is adapted to the cost level of the municipality where you are going to buy a dwelling. This would mean that if the cost level is lower in Bodø than in Bergen, he or he who is applying for a start-up loan in Bergen will be able to get a higher starting loan than the one that should be in Bodø – for that is the case within the individual municipality. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and myself are in the process of designing a housing message. In that message, we will discuss different aspects of the housing market, and of course also look at how the devices on different tools turn out. If there is something that needs to be changed, we will come back to it in that message. The representative Tetzschner takes up the sum of the standard requirements as a reason for rising housing prices. At best, it's only a small part of the image. There is no doubt that there are many reasons why housing prices have increased, and we have a very free price formation in housing in Norway. Many other countries have screened the market more than we have. Some of the causes here are probably also that there was an investment object and not just an investment to build. That's why we also see that there's a very big difference in the price growth around the country. Where there is competition, prices rise much more than in those parts of the country where there is not much competition for the housing compared to the purchase and sale. But the standard requirement applies everywhere, so here's a kind of context that we need to look at. We are running both with the housing message and a message about the building policy. It will allow the Storting to discuss these perspectives in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1841	It was the posts of the representative Tetzschner that made me redraw. I share his concern that the entrance ticket to the housing market is too high, and I fully agree that it is important to see how the entire housing market works. But when the representative Tetzschner suggests that there are environmental requirements and universal design requirements that lead to an increase in housing prices, I think he is wrong. We have heard this criticism before, from representatives of the entrepreneurial sector. As I understand it, it's only 3 pst. of traded dwellings which are new dwellings with the requirements to which the representative Tetzschner referred. Yes, it's possible they've become a little bit more expensive, but if we're going to look for reasons for price growth, we're going to have to look at the other 97 pst. of traded dwellings. And it's about supply and demand, and it's terms that both Tetzschner and his party traps are well-known. When the number of dwellings does not increase, but demand increases, prices increase. Only in Oslo, the SSB is expecting 200,000 new residents by 2030. This means that 5,000 new dwellings need to be built each year. It's not happening today. If we are to succeed, the party traps of the representative Tetzschner in Oslo City Hall must take their share of responsibility. If we're going to point to three main challenges, I think they can be summed up like this: area, area and area. This is a responsibility the municipality must take. I think it's very nice that the Oslo Right Leader is concerned about this, and I like to cooperate on how we can do it in a good way. 5 B.C.E. NOK is a lot of money, and it is not every day that the Storting is moving so much money unanimously. It is also not every day that we discuss housing policy. We should do that more often. I think there have been many good contributions, and I am pleased that we agree on the strengthening of the House Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1848	I join the post that Haugli has just held. I think it's a little special when the representative Tetzschner thinks that it's “presumptuous”, as he said, to be concerned with universal design, that people shouldn't get an unnecessary sky-high power bill, and that we should use too much power unnecessarily, and that we are creating a housing market that is so that people, sail if they were to end up in a wheelchair, should be free to choose a little more where they want to stay. Then he also talks about a ‘normally equipped’ bathroom, e.g. Yes, I think there are many who, to say it like this, live on what is called a substandard, which could well imagine a normally equipped bathroom. And that's how people should be able to get in there even if you get a little creepy. So there's a little question about thinking a little bit ahead and looking at housing as a long-term investment, which might also have to be traded several times. For this is the case with the housing market in Norway today. It is one of the most liberal housing markets in Europe. That is why I also thought that the representative Tetzschner was a little more aware of the effects of this, among other things. that when there is a great deal of centralisation and free price formation, the price increases dramatically in some places. It's a wild development, while SV wants us to take greater responsibility in social housing policy and also have a stronger district policy than the Right wants, just to make it attractive to live in many places in the country. Then I need, when Tetzschner also swings into other things like this government has done, just to underline the fact that the changes we have made in the property tax, which also affects the wealth valuation of housing, have made very many people in this country now exempt property taxes on their housing, because we have increased the bottomline significantly. It has helped a lot of people, that, like before, when the Right sat in government, paid property taxes on their home, but that now escapes. So here it's done a lot of good from this government. However, as the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs said, the major change in Norwegian housing policy is that the housing has gone from being a home to becoming an investment. This has caused us to get some drivers into this housing market, which has made the price high, and many young people and other disadvantaged people find it difficult to do so. That's why it's the grip that the government is now doing, so important and so right, and so the big message about housing policy will also be so interesting and important in the future, so that we can create a housing market that can be a little more liberal for a few more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1861	I would first like to thank the Council of State for answering such a specific question. I'm not going to go into any debate, but I just feel like I need to clarify some of what I said in the post. Governments say that the housing market controls the start-up loan you get is working well. The problem is that the start-up loan mainly works as a top finance, and that you are then dependent on bank loans. Therefore, an assistant will have major problems in a city with a very expensive housing market, and will not be able to get bank loans, and thus will not be able to get a start-up loan. But I hope the Council of State will look further at this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1868	Michael Tetzschner has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1871	First of all, I would like to make it clear that I have not characterised Andersen as biased, but said that after a while you can see without prejudice how the ideal demands that you have imposed under the best intentions may not work exactly as you thought in advance. While I'm up here, I can also end my participation in the debate by saying that in two years' time the most important topic of housing policy we're discussing is probably not whether it should be built for 200,000 new citizens in Oslo, but what we do to help those who may have overinvested in order to expect the low level of interest rates as a new normal level. I would like to know if the Council of State has carried out some stress tests in the department considering what would happen to the housing market whose continuous interest rate rose from 3 1⁄2 to e.g. 7 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1878	We've always encouraged people – at least I've done it, and I also believe others from the government side have done it – to think through their loans, the same way that municipalities have to think through their loans, and, of course, also take the height to increase interest rates, which have been warned for a long time. In the work on the housing message, this is also a theme – of course it is. It's not to hide that I have a concern for people who have invested in what too many still are a life project, although for more and more obvious, it's an investment more than buying a dwelling that you're going to spend the rest of your life. I have a concern that people borrow too much, and have a call to the banks to be attentive to it when one sits and advises people in a vulnerable situation in their lives, where one wants to invest in their own future. I think it's important that we get the housing message that we're working on, and that we discuss the context of housing policy in a better way, so that it's not fragmented. Today is a very good day for many in this country, who can now get their projects implemented. I'm very busy with the young -- not least the young people in town. I am a burning district politician, but I must say that I have met many people, both in this town and in other cities, who are struggling on the housing market. I also have a burning commitment to them, and that they should be able to get a home -- a key that is theirs. We're working on it, and today is an important step in that image. As I said, the size must also be able to discuss the context and challenges of housing policy in a larger picture, and there will be a few when we present the big picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1891	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3928]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1899	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1907	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-8, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party. In the course of the debate, the proposals are no. 6 and 7 converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 6 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish a Technical Assistance Group in the fight against cybersecurity as soon as possible to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the government establish a national cyber centre as soon as possible, in line with guidelines provided in the cybersecurity strategy.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There will then be a vote on the proposals No. 1 to 5 and points 8 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a national unit which shall be fully responsible for the coordination and investigation of organised crime.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for necessary changes to the Criminal Procedures Act § 216 to lower the threshold for police access to communications control.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the second paragraph of Section 17d of the Police Act in order to extend the access of the PST to the surveillance of suspected terrorists.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the necessary changes for an extended registration and control upon arrival of immigrants so that the registration also includes DNA profiles.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the PST and other relevant police units have access to all registered information on arrivals of migrants.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals to ensure that public disclosure does not hinder the exchange of information between public bodies in the fight against organised crime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e1977	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e2020	The President will propose that we take the vote again, as it was equal to the number of votes – the Vice-President does not have a double vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-05.ana.ud1933e2205	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
